Section 1.

Establishment.

The President's Environment and   program is established for the purposes of recognizing outstanding environmental achievements by   citizens, enterprises, or programs; providing an incentive for environmental accomplishment; promoting cooperative partnerships between diverse groups working together to achieve common environmental goals; and identifying successful environmental programs that can be replicated.

 . 2.

Administration.

(a)  , with the assistance of  , shall organize, manage, and administer the awards program, including the development of selection criteria, the nomination of eligible individuals to receive the award, and the selection of award recipients.

(b) Any expenses of the program shall be paid from funds available for the expenses of  .

 . 3.

Awards.

(a) Up to three awards in each of the following four categories shall be made   to eligible individuals, organizations, groups, or entities:

(i)   (incorporation of environmental concerns into management decisions and practices);

(ii) Partnership Awards (successful coalition building efforts);

(iii) Innovation Awards (innovative technology programs, products, or processes); and

(iv) Education and   (education and information programs contributing to the development of an ethic fostering conservation and environmental protection).

(b) Presidential citations shall be given to eligible program finalists who demonstrate notable or unique achievements, but who are not selected to receive awards.

 . 4.

Eligibility.

Only residents of   and organizations, groups, or entities doing business in   are eligible to receive an award under this program. An award under this program shall be given only for achievements in   or its territories. Organizations, groups, or entities may be profit or nonprofit, public or private entities.

 . 5.

Information System.

  shall establish and maintain a data bank with information about award nominees to catalogue and publicize model conservation or environmental protection programs which could be replicated.
