Section 1.

Establishment of the President's  .

(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's   (PCIE).

(b) The PCIE shall be composed of the following members:

(1) The Deputy Director for  , who shall be Chairperson of the  ;

(2) All civilian Presidentially appointed Inspectors General whose of fices were established in the Inspector General Act of   and subsequent amendments;

(3) The Vice Chairperson of  ;

(4) The Controller of  ;

(5) The Associate Deputy Director for Investigations of  ;

(6) The Director of  ;

(7) The Special Counsel of  ; and

(8) The Deputy Director of  .

(c) The   may, from time to time, invite other officials to participate in meetings of the  .

(d) The   shall, to the extent possible, convene meetings of the PCIE  .

 . 2.

Establishment of  .

(a) There is established as an inter-entity committee   ( ).

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(1) The Deputy Director for  , who shall be Chairperson of the  ;

(2) All civilian statutory Inspectors General not represented on the  ;

(3) The Vice Chairperson of the  ;

(4) The Controller of  ;

(5) The Associate Deputy Director for Investigations of  , or his or her designee;

(6) The Director of  , or his or her designee;

(7) The Special Counsel of  , or his or her designee; and

(8) The Deputy Director of  , or his or her designee.

(c) If any individual simultaneously serves as a Presidentially appointed Inspector General and as Inspector General of an entity represented on the  , that individual may send a designee to   meetings.

(d) The   may, from time to time, invite other officials to participate in meetings of the  .

(e) The   or, in his or her absence, the Controller of   shall, to the extent possible, convene meetings of the    .

 . 3.

Functions of the   and the  .

(a) The Councils shall continually identify, review, and discuss areas of weakness and vulnerability in Federal programs and operations to fraud, waste, and abuse, and shall develop plans for coordinated,   activities that address these problems and promote economy and efficiency in Federal programs and operations. These activities will include interagency and inter-entity audit and investigation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste that exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency or entity. The Councils shall recognize the preeminent role of   in law enforcement and litigation.

(b) The Councils shall develop policies that will aid in the establishment of a corps of well-trained and highly skilled   staff members.

(c) The individual members of the   should, to the extent permitted under law, adhere to professional standards developed by the   and participate in the plans, programs, and projects of the  .

(d) The creation and operation of the   shall neither interfere with existing authority and responsibilities in the relevant agencies and entities nor augment or diminish the statutory authority or responsibilities of individual members of either  .

 . 4.

Responsibilities of the Chairperson of the   and the  .

(a) The   may appoint a Vice Chairperson from the   and the   to assist in carrying out the functions of each  .

(b) The   shall, in consultation with the members of each  , establish the agenda for   and   activities.

(c) The   shall, on behalf of the  , report to the President on the activities of the Councils. The   shall, as appropriate, advise the Councils with respect to the President's consideration of the  ' activities.

(d) The   shall provide agency and entity heads with summary reports of the activities of the  .

(e) The   shall establish, in consultation with members of the  , such committees of the   and the   as deemed necessary and appropriate for the efficient conduct of   and   functions. The   may invite members of the   to serve on each  . Similarly, the   may invite members of the   to serve on  .

(f) The   shall convene joint meetings of the   and the   at least annually.

 . 5.

Administrative Provisions.

(a) The Director of   shall provide the   and the   with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the  .

(b) The heads of agencies and entities represented on the   and the   shall provide their representatives with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the representatives to carry out their responsibilities.

 . 6.

Revocation.

Executive Order No. 12625 of  , entitled "Integrity and Efficiency in Federal Programs," is revoked.
