Section 1. Policy. Building on our  's rich tradition of citizen service, this  's policy is to foster a culture of responsibility, service, and citizenship by promoting, expanding, and enhancing public service opportunities for all   and by making these opportunities readily available to citizens from all geographic areas, professions, and walks of life. More specifically, this   encourages all   to serve their country for the equivalent of   (4,000 hours) over their lifetimes. Toward those ends, the executive departments, agencies, and offices constituting   shall coordinate and strengthen Federal and other service opportunities, including opportunities for participation in homeland security preparedness and response, other areas of public and social service, and international service. The executive branch departments, agencies, and offices also will work with   and local governments and private entities to foster and encourage participation in public and social service programs, as appropriate.

 . 2.  .   shall be an interagency initiative, bringing together executive branch departments, agencies, and offices with public service programs and components, including but not limited to programs and components with the following functions:

(i)

recruiting, mobilizing, and encouraging all   to engage in public service;

(ii)

providing concrete opportunities to engage in public service;

(iii) providing the public with access to information about public service opportunities through   programs and elsewhere; and

(iv) providing recognition and awards to volunteers and other participants in public service programs.

 . 3.  . (a) Establishment and Mission. There shall be a   (Council) chaired by the President and composed of heads of executive branch departments, agencies, and offices, which shall have the following functions:

(i)

serving as a forum for Federal officials responsible for public service programs to coordinate and improve public service programs and activities administered by the executive branch;

(ii)

working to encourage all   to engage in public service, whether through   programs or otherwise;

(iii) advising the President and heads of executive branch departments, agencies, and offices concerning the optimization of current   programs to enhance public service opportunities;

(iv)

coordinating public outreach and publicity of citizen service opportunities provided by Federal programs;

(v)

encouraging schools, universities, private public service organizations, and other non-Federal entities to foster and reward public service;

(vi)

studying the availability of public service opportunities provided by   and elsewhere; and

(vii) tracking progress in participation in public service programs.

(b) Membership. In addition to the  , the members of the   shall be the heads of the executive branch departments, agencies, and offices listed below, or their designees, and such other officers of the executive branch as the President may from time to time designate. Every member of the   or designee shall be a full-time or permanent part-time officer or employee of  . Members shall not be compensated for their service on the   in addition to the salaries they receive as employees or officers of  .

(i)

Vice President;

(ii)

Attorney General;

(iii) Secretary of  ;

(iv)

Secretary of  ;

(v)

Secretary of  ;

(vi)

Secretary of  ;

(vii) Secretary of  ;

(viii) Director of  ;

(ix)

Chief Executive Officer of  ;

(x)

Director of  ;

(xi)

Administrator of  ;

(xii) Director of  ; and

(xiii) Director of    .

(c)

Chair. The President shall be the Chair of  , and in his absence, the Vice President shall serve as  . The Director of   may, at the President's direction, preside over meetings of the   in the President's and Vice President's absence.

(d)

Honorary Co-Chair. The President may, from time to time, designate an   or  , who shall serve in an advisory role to the   and to the President on matters considered by the  . Any Honorary Co-Chair shall be a full-time or permanent part-time employee or officer of  .

(e)

Meetings. The   shall meet at the President's direction. The Director of   shall be responsible, at the President's direction, for determining the agenda, ensuring that necessary papers are prepared, and recording   actions and Presidential decisions.

(f) Responsibilities of Executive Branch Departments, Agencies, and Offices.

(i)

Members of the   shall remain responsible for overseeing the programs administered by their respective departments, agencies, and offices. Each such department, agency, and office will retain its authority and responsibility to administer those programs according to law;

(ii)

Each executive branch department, agency, or office with responsibility for programs relating to the functions and missions of   as described in section 2 of this order shall be responsible for identifying those public service opportunities and coordinating with   to ensure that such programs are, if appropriate, publicized and encouraged by the  ; and

(iii) Upon the request of the  , and to the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive branch departments and agencies shall provide the   with relevant information.

 . 4.  . (a) General.   also shall be supported by  ), which shall be a component of  .   shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the President. The Director shall be assisted by an appropriate staff within  .

(b) Presidential Recognition to Participants in USA Freedom Corps Programs. In addition to supporting and facilitating the functions of the   listed in section 3 of this order, the   shall support the President in providing recognition to volunteers and other participants in programs and activities relating to the functions and missions of   as described in section 2 of this order.

 . 5.  . (a)   shall provide   with such funding and administrative support, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, as directed by the Chief of Staff to the President to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b)

This order does not alter the existing authorities or roles of executive branch departments, agencies, or offices. Nothing in this order shall supersede any requirement made by or under law.

(c)

This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity, against  , its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
