Section 1. Establishment. The Attorney General shall immediately establish within   (Task Force). Without regard to any other provision of this order, the Task Force shall be subject to the authority of the Attorney General under applicable law.

 . 2. Membership and Operation. Subject to section 4 of this order, the Task Force shall have the following members:

(a)

the Deputy Attorney General, who shall serve as  ;

(b)

the Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division);

(c)

the Assistant Attorney General (Tax Division);

(d)

the Director of  ;

(e)

  Attorney for the Southern District of  ;

(f)

  Attorney for the Eastern District of  ;

(g)

  Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois;

(h)

  Attorney for the Eastern District of  ;

(i)

  Attorney for the Central District of California;

(j)

  Attorney for the Northern District of  ;

(k)

  Attorney for the Southern District of  ; and

(l)

such other officers or employees of   as the Attorney General may from time to time designate.

The Deputy Attorney General shall convene and direct the work of   in fulfilling all its functions under this order. The Deputy Attorney General may permit, when he deems it appropriate, the designee of a member of  , including those designated under section 4 of this order, to participate in lieu of the member. The Deputy Attorney General shall convene the first meeting of   within   of this order and shall thereafter convene   at such times as he deems appropriate.

 . 3. Functions. Consistent with the constitutional authority of the President, the authorities assigned to the Attorney General by law, and other applicable law, the Task Force shall:

(a)

provide direction for the investigation and prosecution of cases of securities fraud, accounting fraud, mail and wire fraud, money laundering, tax fraud based on such predicate offenses, and other related financial crimes committed by commercial entities and directors, officers, professional advisers, and employees thereof (hereinafter "financial crimes"), when such cases are determined by the Deputy Attorney General, for purposes of this order, to be significant;

(b)

provide recommendations to the Attorney General for allocation and reallocation of resources of   for investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes, recovery of proceeds from such crimes to the extent permitted by law, and other matters determined by   from time to time to be of the highest priority in the investigation and prosecution of such crimes; and

(c)

make recommendations to the President, through the Attorney General, from time to time for:

(i) action to enhance cooperation among departments, agencies, and entities of   in the investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes;

(ii) action to enhance cooperation among  ,  , and local authorities responsible for the investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes;

(iii) changes in rules, regulations, or policy to improve the effective investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes; and

(iv) recommendations to the   regarding such measures as the President may judge necessary and expedient relating to significant financial crimes, or the investigation or prosecution thereof.

 . 4. Additional Participation for Specified Functions. In   performance of the functions set forth in subsection 3(c) of this order, and to the extent permitted by law, the following officers of the executive branch shall be members of   in addition to such other officers of   as the Deputy Attorney General deems appropriate:

(a) the Secretary of the  ;

(b)

the Chairman of  ;

(c)

the Chairman of  ;

(d)

the Chairman of  ; and

(e)

the Chairman of  .

 . 5.  . This order is intended to improve the internal management of  . This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity or otherwise against  , its departments, agencies, entities, instrumentalities, officers, or employees, or any other person.

 . 6. Termination. The Task Force shall terminate when directed by the President or, with the approval of the President, by the Attorney General.
