Section 1.  . (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the authorities granted to and functions specifically assigned to the President under Division B of the Act are delegated and assigned, respectively, to   (U.S. Trade Representative).

(b)

The exercise of the following authorities of, and functions specifically assigned to the President, under Division B of the Act are reserved to the President:

(1) Section 2102(c)(1), (c)(6), (c)(10) and

(e)

of the Act;

(2)

Section 2103(a)(1), (a)(4), (a)(6), b(1), (c)(1)(B)(i), and (c)(2) of the Act;

(3)

Section 2105(a)(1) of the Act; and

(4)

Section 2108(b) of the Act.

(c)

(i) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and  , shall carry out the functions of section 2102(c)(2) of the Act with respect to establishing consultative mechanisms.  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall carry out the reporting function under section 2102(c)(2).

(ii)

The Secretary of  , in consultation with  , shall carry out the functions under section 2102(c)(3) of the Act with respect to establishing consultative mechanisms, with the advice and assistance of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Secretary of

Commerce and, as the Secretary of   determines appropriate, the heads of such other departments and agencies.  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall carry out the reporting function under section 2103(c)(3).

(iii)   Representative shall carry out the functions under section 2102(c)(5) of the Act.   Representative shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , carry out the reporting function and the function of making a report available under section 2102(c)(5).

(iv)

The Secretary of   shall carry out section 2102(c)(7) of the Act, in consultation with the Secretary of  .

(v)

The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and  , shall carry out the functions under section 2102(c)(8) and (c)(9).

(vi)

The Secretary of the   shall carry out section 2102(c)(12) of the Act, including any appropriate consultations with the   relating thereto.

 . 2.  . (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the authorities granted and the functions specifically assigned to the President under Division C of the Act are delegated and assigned respectively, to  , in consultation with the Secretaries of State,  , the  , and  .

(b)

The exercise of the following authorities of, and functions specifically assigned to, the President under Division C of the Act are reserved to the President:

(i)

The authority to proclaim under sections 204(b)(1) and 204(b)(3)(B)(ii), and the authority to designate beneficiary countries under section 204(b)(6)(B), of   as amended by section 3103(a)(2) of the Act; and

(ii)

The authority to make determinations under section 203(e)(1)(B) of   as amended by section 3103(b) of the Act.

(c)

The head of the executive department of which   is a part shall take such actions to carry out determinations and actions pursuant to  , as amended, as directed pursuant to the authority dele

gated to   Representative under this order.

 . 3. Guidance for Exercising Authority and Performing Duties. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)

In exercising authority delegated by, or performing functions assigned in, this order, and in performing duties related to the trade agreements program as defined in Executive Order  , officers of  :

(i)

  ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to (A) conduct the foreign affairs of  , including the commencement, conduct, and termination of negotiations with foreign countries and international organizations, (B) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties, (C) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary or expedient, and (D) supervise the unitary executive branch;

(ii)

May redelegate authority delegated by this order and may further assign functions assigned by this order to officers of any other department or agency within the executive branch to the extent permitted by law and such redelegation or further assignment shall be published in  ; and

(iii) Shall consult the Attorney General as appropriate in implementing this subsection.

 . 4. Amendment to Executive Order  . Section 1 of Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by inserting ", Divisions B and C of the Trade Act of  ," after "Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended".

 . 5.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies,

instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
