By virtue of authority vested in me by the Act approved  , entitled "An Act Making appropriations to supply urgent deficiencies in appropriations for   and for  , and for other purposes," a committee of six members is hereby created to arrange and provide suitable ceremonies for the official and formal opening of the Panama Canal, as is provided for in Section 4 of the Panama Canal Act. The committee shall be composed of persons who were members of  . The committee shall be known and referred to as   the Panama Canal." It shall have a chairman and vice-chairman, but shall perform its duties under the direction of the Governor of the Panama Canal.

The persons named below are hereby appointed members of this committee.

Colonel  , U. S. A.

Honorable  .

General  , U. S. A.

Colonel  , U. S. A.

Lieutenant-Colonel  , U. S. A.

Civil Engineer  , U. S. N.

Colonel  , now Governor of the Panama Canal, shall be Chairman of this committee.

Honorable   shall be Vice-Chairman.

The members of said committee shall each receive salary at the rate of ten thousand dollars per annum from  , to  , inclusive, and such necessary traveling and living expenses during the period from  , to  , when on duty connected with the work of providing for formally and officially opening the Panama Canal, as may be approved by the Secretary of War. The salary fixed as above shall include any salary to which any member of this committee may be entitled by reason of his appointment to or employment in any other position under   for the period above provided for, and the amount of such salary shall be deducted from the salary fixed as above. The salary to be paid  , shall be equal to   pay in a lump sum, less the amount of any other salary for  . The word "salary" as used herein, in determining the amount to be deducted, shall not be construed to include additional emoluments, but shall be confined to actual pay.

The committee is authorized to spend such sums as may be available for printing, postage, correspondence, employment of clerks, and other necessary expenses connected with formally and officially opening the Panama Canal, as may be approved by the Secretary of War.

The payments authorized hereunder shall be made by such disbursing officer of the Panama Canal as the Governor shall designate.

The Secretary of War shall provide the manner in which the amount to be expended for traveling, living and other expenses authorized by him shall be certified to, and, when such expenditures are so certified to, they shall be paid for without further vouchers therefor.
