1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cape Cod National Seashore Land Exchange Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 1.09 acres of land depicted as tract 22–4556 on the map entitled
United States Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National Seashore
and dated October 20, 1963, sheet 202–22A.
(2)
Non-Federal land
The term
non-Federal land
means the approximately 1.02 acres of land depicted as tract 26–4653 on the map entitled
United States, Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National Seashore
and dated October 27, 1964, Sheet 202–26.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
3.
Land exchange involving cape cod national seashore
(a)
Authorization of exchange
If, in accordance with subsection (b), acceptable title to the non-Federal land is conveyed to the United States, the Secretary shall convey to the owner of the non-Federal land, subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.
(b)
Acceptable title
Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to the United States under subsection (a) shall be title that is acceptable to the Secretary, in conformance with title approval standards applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
(c)
Applicable laws; terms and conditions
The exchange under this section shall be subject to—
(1)
the laws (including regulations) and policies applicable to exchanges of land administered by the National Park Service, including the laws and policies relating to equalization of values and environmental compliance, other than appraisal requirements; and
(2)
such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(d)
Appraisals
For the purpose of valuation of the non-Federal land and Federal land, the Secretary may use the appraisals conducted by Michael Sutton, Certified General Real Estate Appraiser, and dated July 14 and July 22, 2009.
(e)
Administration
The non-Federal land acquired by the Secretary under this section shall be administered as part of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
(f)
Maps
The maps described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2 shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the Department of the Interior.
(g)
Definition of improved property
Section 4(d) of
Public Law 87–126
(
16 U.S.C. 459b–3(d)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
The term
improved property
includes any dwelling structure (including the land on which the structure is located) that is conveyed by the Secretary under this section in exchange for conveyance to, or acquisition by, the Secretary of an improved property described in this section.
.
