1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Carbon Fiber Recycling Act of 2015
.
2.
Recycled carbon fiber study
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
current methods for manufacturing carbon fiber are energy intensive, making carbon fiber costly for use in mass-produced applications;
(2)
it takes approximately one-tenth the energy to produce recycled carbon fiber as it does to produce virgin carbon fiber;
(3)
using recycled carbon fiber in the manufacturing process could result in as great as 40 percent in cost savings compared to the manufacture of virgin fiber; and
(4)
up to 30 percent of carbon fiber manufactured becomes part of the waste stream.
(b)
Study
The Secretary of Energy (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall conduct a study on—
(1)
the technology of recycled carbon fiber and production waste carbon fiber; and
(2)
the potential lifecycle energy savings and economic impact of recycled carbon fiber.
(c)
Factors for consideration
In conducting the study under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consider—
(1)
the quantity of recycled carbon fiber or production waste carbon fiber that would make the use of recycled carbon fiber or production waste carbon fiber economically viable;
(2)
any existing or potential barriers to recycling carbon fiber or using recycled carbon fiber;
(3)
any financial incentives that may be necessary for the development of recycled carbon fiber or production waste carbon fiber;
(4)
the potential lifecycle savings in energy from producing recycled carbon fiber, as compared to producing new carbon fiber;
(5)
the best and highest use for recycled carbon fiber;
(6)
the potential reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from producing recycled carbon fiber, as compared to producing new carbon fiber;
(7)
any economic benefits gained from using recycled carbon fiber or production waste carbon fiber;
(8)
workforce training and skills needed to address labor demands in the development of recycled carbon fiber or production waste carbon fiber; and
(9)
how the Department of Energy can leverage existing efforts in the industry on the use of production waste carbon fiber.
(d)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the study conducted under subsection (b).
3.
Recycled carbon fiber demonstration project
The Secretary shall consult with the aviation and automotive industries and existing programs of the Advanced Manufacturing Office of the Department of Energy to develop a carbon fiber recycling demonstration project.
4.
Authorization of Appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this Act $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.
