Executive Order—Approving Interior Order on  
 
 

DEPARTMENT OF THE  ,  ,  .

The PRESIDENT:

The treaty of   (12 Stats., 954), provides for a reservation of a tract of land not exceeding in quantity one township of 6 miles square for   in the then Territory of  , to be known as the “Wenatshapam fishery,” which “said reservation shall be surveyed and marked out whenever the President may direct, and be subject to the same provisions and restrictions as other   reservations. ”The attention of   was called to this provision in   last by the   agent, and he was directed by the Commissioner to visit the locality of the said “fishery,” and to locate said tract by metes and bounds, taking care not to interfere with the vested rights of any settlers or other parties that might be located thereon. On   he submitted his report herewith, in which he gives a description of the lands to be surveyed and marked, and states that said lands are heavily timbered and in a mountain district, and only valuable for the timberland fishery privileges. The Commissioner of   states that this country is being rapidly settled, and the Great Northern Railroad is extending its system in that direction, and recommends said lands be surveyed for the purpose named in said treaty. Concurring in the recommendation of the Commissioner, I have the honor to request that the Commissioner of   be authorized to instruct the surveyor-general of   to make said survey under the supervision of the   agent, and in accordance with his suggestions, allowing him, however, to make such divergence from the out boundaries described in the Commissioner’s letter as in his judgment the topography of the land may demand, provided that the fines surveyed and marked out, when completed, shall embrace the whole of the land contemplated to be set apart by the treaty and approximately near the area named therein, and that your authority be indorsed hereon. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN  , Secretary.

EXECUTIVE  ,

 .

Approved:

 . HARRISON.

SOURCE:  ,  ,  ,   GPO,  , p 928
