117 SRES 535 ATS: Commemorating the 105th anniversary of the granting of United States citizenship to the people of Puerto Rico.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 535
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 3, 2022
Mr. Rubio
(for himself,
Mr. Heinrich
,
Mr. Scott of Florida
, and
Mr. Padilla
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Commemorating the 105th anniversary of the granting of United States citizenship to the people of Puerto Rico.
Whereas, since 1898, after the Spanish-American War and following the ratification of the Treaty of Paris, Puerto Rico has been a territory of the United States;
Whereas Puerto Rico is located approximately 1,000 miles southeast of Florida;
Whereas, on this day, March 2, 1917, President Woodrow Wilson recognized and welcomed the people of Puerto Rico into the United States as citizens by signing into law the Jones-Shafroth Act;
Whereas the Jones-Shafroth Act separated the Government of Puerto Rico into executive, judicial, and legislative branches and endowed Puerto Ricans with a bill of rights;
Whereas, since that time, Puerto Ricans have worked diligently to make countless contributions to the national identity of the United States by sharing their rich culture and heritage;
Whereas, since that time, Puerto Ricans have proudly served in the nation's Armed Forces, protecting Americans domestically and abroad;
Whereas the people of Puerto Rico continue to occupy a place of distinction in the civic fabric and discourse of the United States; and
Whereas the United States joins Puerto Ricans in celebration of the rights and responsibilities inherent in United States citizenship: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commemorates the 105th anniversary of the granting of United States citizenship to the people of Puerto Rico;
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to observe and celebrate that anniversary; and
(3)
honors the contributions made by, and celebrates, the people of Puerto Rico.
