117 SRES 740 ATS: Condemning the attack that occurred in Greenwood, Indiana, on July 17, 2022, expressing support and prayers for those impacted by that tragedy, and praising the actions of Elisjsha Dicken (also known as the “Good Samaritan”) who valiantly engaged and thwarted the shooter.
U.S. Senate
2022-08-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 740
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
August 3, 2022
Mr. Braun
(for himself and
Mr. Young
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Condemning the attack that occurred in Greenwood, Indiana, on July 17, 2022, expressing support and prayers for those impacted by that tragedy, and praising the actions of Elisjsha Dicken (also known as the “Good Samaritan”) who valiantly engaged and thwarted the shooter.
Whereas, on July 17, 2022, a shooting took place in Greenwood, Indiana, at the Greenwood Park Mall;
Whereas 3 innocent lives were lost in that tragedy: Pedro Piñeda, Rosa Mirian Rivera de Piñeda, and Victor Gomez;
Whereas, without the actions of Elisjsha Dicken, known as the
Good Samaritan
, the perpetrator of the attack would have killed many more innocent people;
Whereas, in the words of Greenwood, Indiana, Chief of Police Jim Ison, “… many more people would have died [in the shooting] if not for a responsible armed citizen that took action very quickly...”;
Whereas the people of the United States continue to pray for a healthy recovery for the individuals who were wounded in the attack;
Whereas all Hoosiers are united in support of the victims and their families; and
Whereas the people of the United States will always remember the victims of this attack and stand in solidarity with those affected by this senseless tragedy: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
condemns the senseless attack that led to the loss of 3 innocent lives in Greenwood, Indiana, on Sunday, July 17, 2022;
(2)
honors the memory of the victims who were murdered: Pedro Piñeda, Rosa Mirian Rivera de Piñeda, and Victor Gomez;
(3)
expresses hope for a full and speedy recovery for, stands in solidarity with, and pledges continued support for the individuals injured in the attack;
(4)
expresses appreciation and gratitude for all of the first responders who quickly responded to the attack and the professionals and volunteers who cared for the injured; and
(5)
expresses appreciation for and honors the courageous, heroic, valiant, and virtuous actions of Elisjsha Dicken, known as the
Good Samaritan
.
