117 SRES 549 IS: Supporting the transfer of aircraft and air defense systems to the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 549
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 16, 2022
Mr. Graham
(for himself,
Ms. Ernst
,
Mr. Crapo
,
Mr. Cramer
,
Mr. Cassidy
,
Mr. Scott of Florida
,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mr. Romney
,
Mr. Tillis
, and
Mr. Lankford
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Supporting the transfer of aircraft and air defense systems to the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
Whereas the people of Ukraine have shown great resolve in combating the blind aggression of the Russian Federation following the further invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022;
Whereas the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation continue to assault the people of Ukraine through indiscriminate aerial attacks;
Whereas the United States Department of Defense has stated that the Russian Federation flies “on average 200 sorties per day” in their campaign against Ukraine;
Whereas Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has continued to request that members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other countries around the globe support the transfer of military aircraft and air defense systems to the Armed Forces of Ukraine in order to protect the people of Ukraine;
Whereas the MiG–29 is the main fixed-wing aircraft in the inventory of the Ukrainian Air Force, and it is critical that the Ukrainian Air Force receive aircraft that mirror the capability and operating standard of the MiG–29;
Whereas additional MiG–29s are essential for the Ukrainian Air Force to remain capable of contesting aircraft of the Russian Federation;
Whereas, on March 5, 2022, it was reported that the Government of Poland would transfer MiG–29s to Ukraine in exchange for aircraft from the United States;
Whereas, on March 6, 2022, Secretary of State Antony Blinken stated that the transfer of Polish MiG–29s to Ukraine
gets a green light [and that] we’re talking with our Polish friends right now about what we might be able to do to backfill their needs …
;
Whereas, on March 8, 2022, the Government of Poland stated that Poland would
deploy—immediately and free of charge—all of their M[i]G–29 jets … and place them at the disposal of the Government of the United States
and further stated that
other NATO Allies—owners of M[i]G–29 jets—[should] act in the same vein
;
Whereas, on March 9, 2022, the Pentagon stated that the United States does
not support the transfer of additional fighter aircraft to the Ukrainian Air Force at this time, and therefore have no desire to see them in our custody, either
and further stated that
the transfer of combat aircraft right now could be mistaken, by Mr. Putin and the Russians as an escalatory step
;
Whereas a failure to provide aircraft, such as MiG–29s, and air defense systems to the Armed Forces of Ukraine would embolden the Russian Federation and further endanger the people of Ukraine;
Whereas the Biden Administration should support the transfer of aircraft, such as MiG–29s, and air defense systems, including Stinger missiles and more advanced surface-to-air missile systems, to Ukraine; and
Whereas Congress urges the Biden Administration to meet the air defense needs requested by President Zelensky, including the transfer of aircraft, such as MiG–29s, and other air defense systems: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
encourages the President of the United States to support the transfer of aircraft, such as MiG–29s, and air defense systems to Ukraine;
(2)
supports continued efforts by members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other countries around the globe to identify additional aviation and air defense capabilities to transfer to the Armed Forces of Ukraine; and
(3)
stands with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the people of Ukraine in their struggle against Russian aggression.
