117 SRES 644 IS: Establishing a Women’s Bill of Rights to reaffirm legal protections afforded to women under Federal law.
U.S. Senate
2022-05-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 644
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 19 (legislative day, May 17), 2022
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
(for herself,
Ms. Lummis
, and
Mr. Cruz
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Establishing a Women’s Bill of Rights to reaffirm legal protections afforded to women under Federal law.
Whereas male and female individuals possess unique and immutable biological differences that manifest prior to birth and increase with age and puberty;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes mean that only females can get pregnant, give birth, and breastfeed children;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes mean that males are, on average, larger in size and possess greater body strength than females;
Whereas biological differences between the sexes can expose females to greater harm than males from specific forms of violence, including sexual violence;
Whereas women have achieved inspirational and significant accomplishments in education, athletics, and employment; and
Whereas recent misguided court rulings relating to the definition of
sex
have led to the endangerment of spaces and resources dedicated to women, thereby necessitating clarification of certain terms: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate reaffirms that—
(1)
for the purpose of Federal law, the
sex
of an individual means his or her biological sex (either male or female) at birth;
(2)
for the purpose of Federal law, the terms
woman
and
girl
refer to human females, and the terms
man
and
boy
refer to human males;
(3)
for the purpose of Federal law, the word
mother
means a parent of the female sex and
father
is defined as a parent of the male sex;
(4)
there are important reasons to distinguish between the sexes with respect to athletics, prisons, domestic violence shelters, restrooms, and with respect to other areas, particularly where biology, safety, and privacy are implicated;
(5)
policies and laws that distinguish between the sexes are subject to intermediate constitutional scrutiny and permitted when they serve an important governmental objective and are substantially related to achieving that objective; and
(6)
for the purposes of complying with Federal laws that require State and local government agencies to collect or report data disaggregated by sex, such as Federal antidiscrimination laws, agencies are required to base such data on the biological sex of individuals at birth.
