1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
LNG For Allies Act
.
2.
Natural gas exports to allies and strategic partners
(a)
Finding
Congress finds that expediting the approval of natural gas export applications for projects intended to increase the capacity of the United States to export natural gas to allies and strategic partners will—
(1)
empower United States natural gas exporters to better assist the strategic and national security interests of the United States and allies and strategic partners of the United States; and
(2)
lead to job growth, economic development, and energy security.
(b)
Natural gas exports
Section 3(c) of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
(c) For purposes
and inserting the following:
(c)
Expedited application and approval process
(1)
Definition of covered nation
(A)
In general
In this subsection, the term
covered nation
—
(i)
during the period described in subparagraph (B), means an ally described in section 3(b)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2753(b)(2)
); and
(ii)
during the period described in subparagraph (B), includes Cyprus, Finland, Moldova, Sweden, Taiwan, and Ukraine.
(B)
Period described
The period described in this subparagraph is the period—
(i)
beginning on the date of enactment of the LNG For Allies Act; and
(ii)
ending on December 31, 2027, or such later date as the President determines is in the interest of national defense (as defined in section 702 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4552
)) or is otherwise in the interests of the United States.
(2)
Expedited approval
Except as provided in paragraph (3), for purposes
;
(2)
in paragraph (2) (as so designated), by inserting
the exportation of natural gas to a covered nation,
before
or the exportation
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Exclusions
(A)
Nations designated as state sponsors of terrorism
The Commission shall not grant expedited approval under paragraph (2) of an application for exportation of natural gas to any country the government of which has repeatedly provided support for international terrorism pursuant to—
(i)
section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4813(c)(1)(A)
);
(ii)
section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2371
); or
(iii)
section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2780
).
(B)
Nations designated by congress
The Commission shall not grant expedited approval under paragraph (2) of an application for exportation of natural gas to any nation designated by an Act of Congress as excluded from such expedited approval for reasons of national security.
.
(c)
Effect
The amendments made by subsection (b) shall not affect any Federal authorization to export natural gas from the United States to a foreign nation or to import natural gas into the United States from a foreign nation that is in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
