1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Great Salt Lake Recovery Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Program
The term
program
means the program established under section 3(a).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Army.
3.
Great Salt Lake monitoring and assessment program
(a)
In general
The Secretary is authorized to carry out a program to monitor and assess the hydrology of saline lake ecosystems in the Great Basin, including the Great Salt Lake, to inform and support Federal and non-Federal management and conservation activities to benefit those ecosystems.
(b)
Coordination
The Secretary shall coordinate implementation of the program with relevant—
(1)
Federal and State agencies;
(2)
Indian Tribes;
(3)
local governments; and
(4)
nonprofit organizations.
(c)
Contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements
The Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts, grant agreements, and cooperative agreements with institutions of higher education and with entities described in subsection (b) to implement the program.
(d)
Update
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an update on the progress of the Secretary in carrying out the program.
(e)
Additional information
In carrying out the program, the Secretary may use available studies, information, literature, or data on the Great Basin region published by relevant Federal, State, or local entities, including the United States Geological Survey.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000.
4.
Drought solutions feasibility study
The Secretary is authorized to investigate the feasibility of a project for ecosystem restoration and water supply in the Great Salt Lake, which may include an identification of—
(1)
technology capabilities currently in practice or expected to be commercialized within the next 10 years that can redirect water sources to drought-impacted saline lakes, or conserve and increase water supply and delivery, including—
(A)
pipelines;
(B)
coastal desalination plants; and
(C)
canal reinforcement; and
(2)
necessary permitting to redirect water sources across State borders.
