1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Expansion Act of 2022
.
2.
Plan to ensure reasonable access to the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(a)
Plan required
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall develop a plan to increase the total number of units of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps to ensure that there is reasonable access to such units in each geographic region of the United States by not later than September 30, 2031.
(b)
Elements
The plan required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A proposal to increase the total number of units of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps to ensure reasonable access for students throughout the United States.
(2)
The estimated cost of implementing the proposed increase in the number of such units.
(3)
A prioritized list of the States and regions in which the Secretary proposes adding additional units.
(4)
Actions the Secretary expects to carry out to ensure adequate representation and fair access to such units for students in all regions of the United States, including rural and remote areas and in underrepresented States.
(5)
To the extent appropriate, modifications to the requirements for such units, including the requirements applicable to instructors, to accommodate units in rural areas and small schools.
(6)
A plan to increase school and community awareness of Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps programs in underrepresented areas.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the plan developed under subsection (a).
(d)
Reasonable access defined
In this section, the term
reasonable access
, when used with respect to units of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, means a level of access determined by the Secretary of Defense to be reasonable taking into account the demand for student participation, the availability of instructors, and the physical distance between units.
