1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Our Health Security Act of 2022
.
2.
Termination of suspension of persons from designated places related to the COVID–19 pandemic
(a)
In general
An order of suspension issued under section 362 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 265
) as a result of the public health emergency declaration under section 319 of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) with respect to COVID–19 (including any renewal of such declaration) shall not be lifted earlier than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of Health and Human Services provides written notification to the appropriate committees of Congress that such public health emergency declaration has been terminated.
(b)
Procedures during 60-Day termination window
(1)
Plan
Not later than 30 days after the date on which a written notification is provided under subsection (a), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a plan to address any possible influx of persons related to the termination of such order.
(2)
Consultation
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop the plan required by paragraph (1) in consultation with—
(A)
the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
(B)
any Federal agency, State, local, or Tribal government, and nongovernmental organization that, as determined by the Secretary, has a role in managing outcomes associated with the termination of such order.
(3)
Contents
The plan required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
The process for screening persons referred to in paragraph (1) for COVID–19 and other communicable diseases.
(B)
A description of the Federal Government’s capacity for testing such persons for COVID–19 and other communicable diseases.
(C)
A description of the protocols to prevent the spread of, and to treat, communicable diseases (other than COVID–19) in connection with an influx of persons described in paragraph (1).
(D)
A description of the protocols to be implemented to protect Federal employees working with or near such persons from potential exposure to COVID–19 and other communicable diseases.
(E)
The process for screening such persons for controlled substances, including fentanyl, being imported illicitly.
(F)
A specification of how long, and with respect to how many such persons, the Federal Government has the capacity to carry out the activities referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (E).
(G)
A specification of the circumstances under which a request will be submitted for additional such capacity.
(4)
Failure to submit
If a plan under paragraph (1) is not submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress within the 30-day period described in such paragraph—
(A)
not later than 7 days after the expiration of such 30-day period, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress, in writing, of the status of preparing such a plan and the timing for submission as required under paragraph (1); and
(B)
the termination of an order of suspension pursuant to such plan shall be delayed until a date that is at least 30 days after the date on which such plan is submitted to such committees.
