1.
New medical research expenditure component of credit for increasing research activities
(a)
In general
Section 41(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
and
at the end of paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting
, and
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
14 percent of specified medical research expenditures.
.
(b)
Specified medical research expenditures
Section 41(f) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
Specified medical research expenditures
(A)
In general
The term
specified medical research expenditures
means amounts paid or incurred for qualified research with respect to any qualified countermeasure.
(B)
Qualified countermeasure
The term
qualified countermeasure
has the meaning given to such term in section 319F–1(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6a(a)(2)).
.
(c)
Denial of double benefit
(1)
Taxable years beginning before January
1, 2022
In the case of specified medical research expenditures (as defined in section 41(f)(7) of such Code (as added by this section)) paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022—
(A)
such expenditures shall be treated in the same manner as qualified research expenses and basic research expenses under section 280C(c)(1) of such Code (as in effect on the day before the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act), and
(B)
the amount determined under section 280C(c)(2)(A) (as in effect on such day) for the taxable year shall be increased by the amount of credit determined for the taxable year under section 41(a)(4) (as added by this section).
(2)
Taxable years beginning after December
31, 2021
Section 280C(c)(1) of such Code is amended by striking
section 41(a)(1)
and inserting
paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 41(a)
.
(d)
Conforming amendment
Section 41(f)(1) of such Code is amended by striking
and amounts paid or incurred to energy research consortiums
each place it appears and inserting
, amounts paid or incurred to energy research consortiums, and specified medical research expenditures
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of this Act, in taxable years ending after such date.
