Executive Order  — 
 
 

This Administration is determined to continue to develop a more comprehensive, integrated national energy policy to meet the emerging energy challenge. Many steps have been taken toward that end, including measures to increase domestic production of all forms of energy without violating our natural environment, to conserve the energy we produce, to better utilize our current resources, and to use our vast scientific and technological capacities to develop new sources and new forms of energy. I have now determined that in order to protect and promote the interests of the people of   as energy users, and to coordinate the policies of the executive branch in this area, it is necessary to establish a   and a  .

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and statutes of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ENERGY

SECTION 1. Three Assistants to the President,  ,  , and  , shall constitute a  . The Director of   shall perform his functions under this order in accordance with policies and guidance provided him by  .

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE

 . 2. There is hereby established in   of the President a  . The Office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a Director who shall be designated by the President. The Director shall report to the President through  .

FUNCTIONS OF THE  

 . 3. (a). The Director shall advise the President, through  , with respect to all Federal energy programs, activities, and related matters.

(b) The Director shall recommend policies and guidelines pertaining to energy matters for all energy related programs within  . To the maximum extent permitted by law, Federal officers and Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Director in carrying out his functions under this  .

(c) In addition, the Director shall

(1) assure the development of comprehensive plans and programs to insure the availability of adequate and dependable supplies of energy;

(2) assure that Federal energy policy is properly coordinated;

(3) evaluate all such programs;

(4) advise the heads of departments and agencies of his findings and recommendations, when appropriate;

(5) make recommendations to the Director of   concerning proposed funding of energy programs and activities;

(6) constitute a clearinghouse for the prompt consideration of energy problems brought to his attention by Federal departments and agencies and by other public and private entities, organizations, agencies, or individuals; and

(7) report, through  , from time to time, to the President concerning the foregoing.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
