Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and pursuant to the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended,  , and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

 . 2. The   shall consist of a Chairman to be appointed by the President, and such members representing labor, management, and the public at large as the President may, from time to time, appoint.

 . 3. (a) The Commission shall explore methods by which labor and management may best reconcile their differences through the collective bargaining process consistent with the public interest in the outcome of negotiations; investigate means by which the   may be most helpful in achieving this goal; encourage labor and management representatives in particular industries or sectors to develop and implement procedures to facilitate resolution of disputes and constructive bargaining in the public interest; and make recommendations to the President concerning these and related matters.

(b) The   shall establish additional labor-management-public advisory panels with respect to particular sectors of the economy to provide special expertise to the   and to develop programs in these particular sectors.

(c) The   shall convene at the call of the Chairman or the President or the President's designee.

 . 4.  ,  , and  , to the extent permitted by law, shall provide support and technical assistance for the  ; and   shall perform such other functions with respect to the   as may be required by the provisions of  — 463; 86 Stat. 770).

 . 5. To assist the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman and the Director of  , and the Director of   shall be ex officio members available to the   for advice and consultation.

 . 6. The President's   on   is hereby abolished and Executive Order No.   of  , is revoked.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: The text of the   order was released in  ,  

For the announcement of the appointment of the Chairman and 10 members of the  , see the following item.
