Executive Order 11615—Providing for   Rents,  , and Salaries
 
 

WHEREAS, in order to stabilize the economy, reduce inflation, and minimize unemployment, it is necessary to stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries; and

WHEREAS, the present balance of payments situation makes it especially urgent to stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries in order to improve our competitive position in world trade and to protect the purchasing power of the dollar:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the Economic Stabilization Act of   (  91-379, 84 Stat. 799), as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Prices, rents, wages, and salaries shall be stabilized for     from the date hereof at levels not greater than the highest of those pertaining to a substantial volume of actual transactions by each individual, business, firm or other entity of any kind during the   period ending  , for like or similar commodities or services. If no transactions occurred in that period, the ceiling will be the highest price, rent, salary or wage in the nearest preceding   period in which transactions did occur. No person shall charge, assess, or receive, directly or indirectly in any transaction prices or rents in any form higher than those permitted hereunder, and no person shall, directly or indirectly, pay or agree to pay in any transaction wages or salaries in any form, or to use any means to obtain payment of wages and salaries in any form, higher than those permitted hereunder, whether by retroactive increase or otherwise.

(b) Each person engaged in the business of selling or providing commodities or services shall maintain available for public inspection a record of the highest prices or rents charged for such or similar commodities or services during the   period ending  .

(c) The provisions of sections 1 and 2 hereof shall not apply to the prices charged for raw agricultural products.

 . 2. (a) There is hereby established   which shall act as an agency of   and which is hereinafter referred to as the  .

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , and the Special Assistant to the President for  . The Secretary of the   shall serve as Chairman of the   and the Chairman of   shall serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman of   of   shall serve as adviser to the  .

(c) Under the direction of the Chairman of   Assistant to the President shall serve as Executive Director of the  , and the Executive Director is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist the   in the performance of its functions.

 . 3. (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, there are hereby delegated to the   all of the powers conferred on the President by the Economic Stabilization Act of  .

(b) The   shall develop and recommend to the President additional policies, mechanisms, and procedures to maintain economic growth without inflationary increases in prices, rents, wages, and salaries after the expiration of the   period specified in Section 1 of this Order.

(c) The   shall consult with representatives of agriculture, industry, labor and the public concerning the development of policies, mechanisms and procedures to maintain economic growth without inflationary increases in prices, rents, wages, and salaries.

(d) In all of its actions the   will be guided by the need to maintain consistency of price and wage policies with fiscal, monetary, international and other economic policies of  .

(e) The   shall inform the public, agriculture, industry, and labor concerning the need for controlling inflation and shall encourage and promote voluntary action to that end.

 . 4. (a) The  , in carrying out the provisions of this  , may (i) prescribe definitions for any terms used herein, (ii) make exceptions or grant exemptions, (iii) issue regulations and orders, and (iv) take such other actions as it determines to be necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

(b) The   may redelegate to any agency, instrumentality or official of   any authority under this  , and may, in administering this  , utilize the services of any other agencies,  , as may be available and appropriate.

(c) On request of the Chairman of the  , each Executive department or agency is authorized and directed, consistent with law, to furnish the   with available information which the   may require in the performance of its functions.

(d) All Executive departments and agencies shall furnish such necessary assistance as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

 . 5. The   may require the maintenance of appropriate records or other evidence which are necessary in carrying out the provisions of this  , and may require any person to maintain and produce for examination such records or other evidence, in such form as it shall require, concerning prices, rents, wages, and salaries and all related matters. The   may make such exemptions from any requirement otherwise imposed as are consistent with the purposes of this  . Any type of record or evidence required under regulations issued under this   shall be retained for such period as the   may prescribe.

 . 6. The expenses of the   shall be paid from such funds of   as may be available therefor.

 . 7. (a) Whoever willfully violates this   or any order or regulation issued under authority of this   shall be fined not more than $5,000 for each such violation.

(b) The   shall in its discretion request   to bring actions for injunctions authorized under Section 205 of the Economic Stabilization Act of   whenever it appears to the   that any person has engaged, is engaged, or is about to engage in any acts or practices constituting a violation of any regulation or order issued pursuant to this  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
