Executive Order  —Providing for Details and Transfers of   to International Organizations
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 and section 3584 of title 5, United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Leadership and coordination.

The Secretary of   shall provide leadership and coordination for the effort of   to increase and improve its participation in international organizations through transfers and details of well-qualified Federal employees, and shall develop policies, procedures, and programs consistent with this order to advance and encourage such participation.

 . 2.

Federal agency cooperation.

Each agency in the executive branch of   shall to the maximum extent feasible and with due regard to its manpower requirements assist and encourage details and transfers of employees to international organizations by observing the following policies and procedures:

(1) Vacancies in international organizations shall be brought to the notice of well-qualified agency employees whose abilities and levels of responsibility in the Federal service are commensurate with those required to fill such vacancies.

(2) Subject to prior approval of his agency, no leave shall be charged an employee who is absent for a maximum of   for interview for a proposed detail or transfer at the formal request of an international organization or a   official; an agency may approve official travel for necessary travel within   in connection with such an interview.

(3) An agency, upon request of an appropriate authority, shall provide international organizations with detailed assessments of the technical or professional qualifications of individual employees being formally considered for details and transfers to specific positions.

(4) Upon return of an employee to his agency, the agency shall give due consideration to the employee's overall qualifications, including those which may have been acquired during his service with the international organization, in determining the position and grade in which he is reemployed.

 . 3.

Delegations.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this order, there is hereby delegated to   the authority vested in the President by sections   (b) and   of title 5, United States Code.

(b) The following are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  :

(1) The authority vested in the President by sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, to determine whether it is in the national interest to extend a detail or transfer of an employee beyond  .

(2) The authority vested in the President by section 3582(b) of title 5, United States Code, to define and specify "pay, allowances, post differential, and other monetary benefits" to be paid by the agency upon reemployment, disability, or death.

 . 4.

Revocation.

Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby revoked.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was released at  ,  
