Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The following functions conferred upon the President by   (  90-629), hereinafter referred to as the "Act", are hereby delegated as follows:

(a) Those under section 3 (a) of the Act, with the exception of 3 (a) (1), to the Secretary of  .

(b) Those under section 21 of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(c) Those under section 22 of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(d) That under section 23 of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(e) Those under section 24 of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(f) Those under section 34 of the Act to the Secretary of  . To the extent the standards and criteria for credit and guaranty transactions are based upon national security and financial policies, the Secretary of   shall obtain the prior concurrence of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , respectively.

(g) Those under section 35 (a) of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(h) Those under section 35 (b) of the Act to the Secretary of  .

(i) That under section 42 (b) of the Act to the Secretary of  .

 . 2. Nothing in this order shall be construed as modifying in any way the responsibility conferred upon the Secretary of   by section 2 (b) of the Act for the continuous supervision and general direction of sales under the Act, including, but not limited to, determining whether a sale should be negotiated, concluded, or terminated and the amount thereof.

 . 3. In carrying out the functions delegated to them under this order, the Secretaries of State and   shall consult with the Secretary of the  ,  , and the Director of   on matters pertaining to their responsibilities.

 . 4. All functions conferred upon the President by the Act that are not delegated by the provisions of this order are hereby reserved to the President.

 . 5. Funds appropriated to the President for carrying out the Act shall be deemed to be allocated to the Secretary of   without any further action of the President.

 . 6. References in this order to the provisions of the Act shall be deemed to include references thereto, respectively, as amended from time to time.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For an announcement of the   order see the preceding item.
