Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the Economic Stabilization Act of   (  91-379,84 Stat. 799), as amended,   of   (  93-159), the Defense Production Act of   (50 U.S.C. App.  , et seq.), as amended, and Section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President a  . The Office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of an Administrator and a Deputy Administrator of  . The Administrator shall be the Deputy Secretary of the  .

 . 2. The Administrator of   shall advise the President with respect to the establishment and integration of domestic and foreign policies relating to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy and with respect to all other energy matters.

 . 3 (a) There is hereby delegated to the Administrator all the authority vested in the President by   of  .

(b) The Administrator shall either submit to the   the reports required by Section 4 (c) (2) of  , or may require any other officer or any department or agency of   to submit the required reports to  .

 . 4 (a) There is hereby delegated to the Administrator the authority vested in the President by Section 203 (a) (3) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

(b) The Chairman of   shall, from time to time, delegate to the Administrator such authority under the Economic Stabilization Act as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of that Act with respect to energy matters.

 . 5. There is hereby delegated to the Administrator the authority vested in the President by the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, as it relates to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy. Any provision of Executive Order No.  , as amended, which is inconsistent with the exercise of such authority is hereby suspended for so long as this Section remains in effect.

 . 6. Executive  . 11726 of June 29, 1973, is hereby superseded to the extent that it is inconsistent with this  .

 . 7. All Orders, regulations, circulars, or other directives issued and all other actions taken pursuant to any authority delegated to the Administrator by this   prior to and in effect on the date of this   are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect, as if issued under this  , unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Administrator or by such competent authority as he may specify.

 . 8. All authority delegated to and placed in the Administrator by this   may be further delegated, in whole or in part, by the Administrator to any other officer or any department or agency of  .

 . 9 (a) Necessary expenses of   may be paid from   of the President or from such other funds as may be available.

(b) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support as may be needed by  .

(c) All departments and agencies of the executive branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide assistance and information to  .

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: For remarks of the President and Administrator  , see the preceding item.
