Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as "the  ").

(b) The President of   shall preside over meetings of the  . The Vice President shall preside in the absence of the President.

(c) The   shall be composed of the following:

The Vice President of   The Attorney General

Secretary of  

Secretary of  

Secretary of  

Secretary of  , and   Secretary of   Secretary of  

and such other heads of departments and agencies as the President may from time to time direct.

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall advise and assist the President with respect to urban affairs and shall perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition to such duties, the   is directed to:

(1) Assist the President in the development of a national urban policy, having regard both to immediate and to long-range concerns, and to priorities among them.

(2) Promote the coordination of Federal programs in urban areas.

(3) Encourage the fullest cooperation between  , and city governments, with special concern for the maintenance of local initiative and local decision making.

(4) Ensure that policies concerning urban affairs shall extend to the relations of urban, suburban, and rural areas, to programs affecting them, and to the movement of population between them.

(5) Seek constant improvement in the actual delivery of public services to citizens.

(6) Foster the decentralization of government with the object that program responsibilities will be vested to the greatest possible extent in state and local government.

(7) Encourage the most effective role possible for voluntary organizations in dealing with urban concerns.

(8) Meet with and advise the President on the occasion of emergency situations, or conditions threatening the maintenance of civil order or civil rights.

 . 3. Administrative Arrangements. (a) A person designated by the President shall serve as Executive Secretary of the  . The Executive Secretary shall perform such duties as the President may from time to time direct.

(b) In compliance with provisions of applicable law, and as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order, (1)   shall provide or arrange for supporting clerical administrative and other staff services for the  , and (2) each   and agency which is represented on the   shall furnish the   such information and other assistance as may be available.

 . 4. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any department, establishment, or other instrumentality of the executive branch of   or the head thereof, or any function vested by law in or assigned pursuant to law to any such agency or head, to the authority of any other such agency or head or as abrogating, modifying, or restricting any such function in any manner.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: For the President's statement upon signing the   order creating the  , see the preceding item. For the announcement of creation and membership of the  , see the following item.
