Executive Order 11695—Further Providing for the Stabilization of the Economy
 
 

On  , I issued Executive Order 11615 establishing a freeze on prices, rents, wages and salaries for     from the date of that order and establishing   as the agency with primary responsibility for administering  .

Subsequently, I issued Executive Order   which continued   and established   and a Price Commission. Under the terms of that order,   established broad stabilization goals for the Nation and   and  , acting through their respective Chairmen, prescribed specific standards, criteria and regulations and made rulings and decisions aimed at carrying out goals of  .

On  , I signed into law amendments to the Economic Stabilization Act of  . To reflect changes made by these amendments and to reaffirm the existing delegation of authority to  , I substituted Executive Order  .

As the result of efforts under  , by public officials and private citizens alike, the rate of inflation has been significantly reduced. However, in furtherance of the goals and for the reasons set forth in my message to  , I have determined that to continue to stabilize the economy, reduce inflation, minimize unemployment, improve the  's competitive position in world trade, and protect the purchasing power of the dollar, all in the context of sound fiscal management and effective monetary policies,   should be continued, building upon the solid foundation of achievement accomplished in the past and redirecting our efforts to respond to the needs of  .

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Cost of Living Council (hereinafter referred to as  "), established by section 2 of the Executive Order 11615 of August 15,  , is hereby continued.

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , the Special Assistant to the President for   and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The Secretary of the   shall serve as Chairman of the   and the Chairman of   shall serve as Vice Chairman. The Chairman of   of   shall serve as adviser to the  .

(c) There shall be a Director of   who shall be appointed by the President, be a member of the  , be a full-time official of  , be the  's Chief Executive Officer, and be compensated at the rate prescribed for Level III of the Executive Schedule by section 5314 of Title 5 of the United States Code.

 . 2. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this section, all the powers and duties conferred upon the President by the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, are hereby delegated to the Chairman of the  , including, without limitation, the power and duty to make the determinations and take the actions required or permitted by the act.

(b) The authority conferred by or pursuant to this order shall not extend to the prices charged for raw agricultural products until after the first sale thereof.

(c) The   shall develop and recommend to the President policies, mechanisms and procedures to achieve in making determinations under that act and related statutes.

(ii) In order to assure that unacceptable wage rates shall not be utilized in   or federally related construction, the heads of all   departments and agencies, subject to the direction and coordination of the Chairman of  (1) shall review all plans for construction and financial assistance for construction in localities in which wage or salary increases have been certified by the Chairman of   to be unacceptable and shall, on the basis of that review, determine whether such plans can be approved or continued; and

(2) shall review current and prospective construction contracts for Federal construction and for construction on projects receiving Federal financial assistance in the area affected by a certification by the Chairman of   and shall, on the basis of such review, determine whether such contracts can be awarded or continued.

 . 6. (a) There is hereby established   to be composed of the Director of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Vice Chairman of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Director of  , and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The   shall review Government activities significantly influencing health care expenses and make recommendations to the Chairman of the   concerning these matters.

(b) There is hereby established  . This Committee shall be composed of such members as the President may, from time to time, appoint. The President shall designate the Chairman of  . The   shall provide advice to   in the health industry and other matters related to health care expenses.

 . 7. (a) There is hereby established   which shall be composed of the Chairman of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Vice Chairman of the  , the Director of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of   and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The   shall review Government activities significantly affecting food costs and prices and make recommendations to the Chairman of the   concerning these matters.

(b) There is hereby established  . This Committee shall be composed of such members as the President may, from time to time, appoint. The President shall designate the Chairman of  . The   shall provide advice to   in the food industry and other matters related to food costs and prices.

 . 8. There is hereby established a  . This Committee shall be composed of such members as the President may, from time to time, appoint. The   shall provide advice to the Chairman of the   on methods for improving the collective bargaining process and for assuring wage and salary settlements consistent with gains in productivity and the goal of stemming the rate of inflation.

 . 9.   and Dividends established by section 9 of Executive Order   is hereby continued. The   shall be composed of the Chairman of   of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The Chairman of   of   shall serve as Chairman of  . This Committee shall, subject to review by the  , formulate and execute a program for obtaining voluntary restraints on interest rates and dividends.

 . 10. (a)   and   established by sections 7 and 8 of Executive Order   are hereby abolished effective not   from the date of this order or such earlier date as the Chairman of   may designate. The   and the   during this transition period shall provide for winding up any outstanding matter involving them subject to the direction of the Chairman of the  .

(b)   established by section 10 of Executive Order   is hereby abolished.

(c)   established by section 11 of Executive Order   is hereby abolished.

(d)   established by section 11A of Executive Order  , as amended, is hereby abolished.

(e) The Chairman of the   shall make appropriate provision for the disposition of the records, property, personnel, and funds relating to the agencies and committees abolished by this section.

(f) In order that the confidential status of any records affected by this order shall be fully protected and maintained, the use of any confidential records transferred pursuant to this section shall be so restricted by the Chairman of the   as to prevent the disclosure of information concerning individual persons or firms to persons who are not engaged in functions or activities to which such records are directly related, except as provided for by law or as required in the final disposition thereof pursuant to law.

 . 11. (a) Whoever willfully violates this order or any order or regulation continued or issued under authority of this order shall be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 for each such violation. Whoever violates this order or any order or regulation continued or issued under authority of this order shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 for each such violation.

(b) The Chairman of the   may in his discretion request   to bring actions for injunctions authorized under section 209 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, whenever it appears to him that any person has engaged, is engaged, or is about to engage in any acts or practices constituting a violation of any regulation or order continued or issued pursuant to this order. The relief sought may include a mandatory injunction commanding any person to comply with any such order or regulation and restitution of monies received in violation of any such order or regulation.

(c) The Chairman of  , or his duly authorized agent, shall have authority for any purpose related to the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, to sign and issue subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant books, papers, and other documents, and to administer oaths, all in accordance with the provisions of section 206 of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended.

 . 12. Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , are hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
