Executive Order  —Administration of the Export Administration Act of  
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Export Administration Act of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The power, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President by the provisions of the Export Administration Act of   (83 Stat. 841;  ), are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , with power of successive redelegation.

 . 2.   established by section 2 of Executive Order No. 10945 of  , is hereby reestablished as   (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The Board shall be composed of the Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman of the Board, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  . No alternate Board members shall be designated, but the acting head of any department may serve in lieu of the head of the department concerned. The   may invite the heads of Government agencies, other than the departments represented by the   members, to participate in the activities of the   when matters of interest to such agencies are under consideration.

 . 3. The Secretary of   may from time to time refer to the   such particular export license matters, involving questions of national security or other major policy issues, as he shall select. The Secretary of   shall also refer to the   any other such export license matter, upon the request of any other member of the   or of the head of any other Government department or agency having an interest in such matter. The   shall consider the matters so referred to it, giving due consideration to the foreign policy of  , the national security, and the domestic economy, and shall make recommendations thereon to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. The President may at any time (a) prescribe rules and regulations applicable to the power, authority, and discretion referred to in section 1 of this order, and (b) communicate to the Secretary of Commerce such specific directives applicable thereto as the President shall determine. The Secretary of Commerce shall from time to time report to the President upon the administration of the Export Administration Act of   and, as he may deem necessary, may refer to the President recommendations made by the   under section 3 of this order. Neither the provisions of this section nor those of section 3 shall be construed as limiting the provisions of section 1 of this order.

 . 5. All outstanding delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under, or continued in force by the Export Control Act of  , as amended, shall remain in full force and effect under the Export Administration Act of   and under this order, until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority.

 . 6. This order shall be effective  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
