Executive Order  —  to Negotiate Agreements and Issue Regulations Limiting Imports of Certain Meats
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 204 of the Agricultural Act of  , as amended (7 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture and  , is authorized to negotiate bilateral agreements with representatives of governments of foreign countries limiting the export from the respective countries and the importation into   of fresh, chilled, or frozen cattle meat (item 106.10 of    ) and fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of goats and sheep, except lambs (item 106.20 of    ) which are the products of such countries.

 . 2. The Secretary of Agriculture, with the concurrence of the Secretary of   and  , is authorized to issue regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in   of any such meats to carry out any such agreement.

 . 3. The Commissioner of   shall take such actions and supply such information to the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in   of such meats as the Secretary of  , with the concurrence of the Secretary of   and  , may request to carry out any such agreements or regulations.

 . 4. Heads of departments and heads of agencies are hereby authorized to redelegate within their respective departments or agencies the functions herein assigned to them, except that the function of negotiating agreements delegated to the Secretary of   by section 1 and the function of issuing regulations delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture by section 2 of this order may be redelegated only to officials required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the  , as provided by 3 U.S.C. 301.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released at  ,  

For Proclamation 3993, quantitative limitations on the importation of certain meats into  , see the preceding item.
