Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 205(a) of   of   (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President a   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and such other members from   of the President as the President may, from time to time, specify. The President shall designate one of the members to be Chairman of the  , and shall designate its Executive Secretary.

 . 2. The   shall:

(1) develop and review Federal real property policies with respect to their relationship to other policies and to the objectives of the executive branch of the   and recommend to the President such Federal real property policies or reforms of policies as it deems necessary; and

(2) receive the reports made by   pursuant to section 3 of this order, as well as other reports relating to Federal real property requested by the Chairman, with particular attention to resolving conflicting claims on, and alternate uses for, any property described in those reports, and it shall make such reports and submit such recommendations to the President as may be appropriate.

 . 3 (a)   shall:

(1) conduct surveys of real property holdings of executive agencies on a continuing basis and in a manner consistent with the needs of the  , to identify properties which are not utilized, are underutilized, or are not being put to their optimum use; and

(2) make reports to the President, through the  , describing any property or portion thereof which has not been reported excess to the requirements of the holding agency and which, in the judgment of the Administrator is either not utilized, is underutilized, or is not being put to the optimum use, and which he recommends should be reported as excess property.

(b)   shall participate in the deliberations of the  , where appropriate.

 . 4. As used in this order:

(1) the term "executive agency" means "executive agency" as defined in section 3 (a) of   of   (40 U.S.C. 472(a));

(2) the term "property", however modified, means real property or an interest therein, which is covered by the definition of "property" set forth in section 3(d) of the act (40 U.S.C. 472(d)), and also lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain which are utilized by executive agencies for purposes other than national forests, national parks, or wildlife reserves; and

(3) the term "excess property" means "excess property" as defined in section 3(e) of the act (40 U.S.C. 472(e)).

 . 5. Executive agencies shall cooperate with the   in the performance of its functions, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide it with such information, assistance, and staff support as may be needed to carry out those functions.

 . 6. Executive  . 11508 of  , and Executive Order No.   of September 23,  , are hereby superseded, and   is hereby abolished.

 . 7. This order shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: The text of the   order was released at  ,  

For a statement by the President on the   see the preceding item. For an announcement on the   see the following item.
