Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Energy Policy Office

SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President an  . The office shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a Director of   who shall be designated or appointed by the President.

Functions of the Director

 . 2 (a). The Director shall be the  's chief policy officer with respect to energy matters, and shall be the President's principal adviser concerning those matters.

(b) The Director shall also be responsible for—

(1) identifying major problems, present and prospective, in the energy areas;

(2) making policy recommendations to the President with respect to energy matters;

(3) working with executive branch agencies and outside groups in reviewing policy alternatives with respect to energy matters;

(4) reviewing, commenting on, and making separate recommendations on all other energy-related matters which require Presidential attention;

(5) insuring that executive branch agencies develop short- and long-range plans for dealing with energy matters;

(6) monitoring the implementation of approved energy policies with the assistance of  ;

(7) providing guidance and direction to   and its Chairman in the performance of its functions;

(8) providing advice to   concerning energy matters;

(9) assuring the development of comprehensive plans and programs to assure the availability of adequate and dependable supplies of energy; and

(10) initiating studies to be carried out by the appropriate Government agencies.

Support

 . 3 (a). Necessary expenses of   may be paid from   of the President or from such other funds as may be available.

(b)   shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support as may be needed by  .

(c) All departments and agencies of the executive branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide assistance and information to the Director of  .

 . 4. The Director of   shall make a report to the President, for transmission to the  ,  , concerning actions that have been taken and actions that should be taken to carry out the purposes of this order.

Supersedure

 . 5. Executive  . 11712 of  , is hereby superseded and   and   are hereby abolished.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: The text of the   order was released at  ,  , and  ,  

For a statement by the President on energy and natural resources, see the preceding item.
