Executive Order  —Providing for Administration of the Clean Air Act with   to  , Grants, or Loans
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the provisions of the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), and particularly section 306 of that Act as added by   of   (Public Law 91-604, approved  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to improve and enhance environmental quality. In furtherance of that policy, the program prescribed in this   is instituted to assure that each Federal agency empowered to enter into contracts for the procurement of goods, materials, or services and each Federal agency empowered to extend Federal assistance by way of grant, loan, or contract shall undertake such procurement and assistance activities in a manner that will result in effective enforcement of the Clean Air Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act").

 . 2.  . (a) The Administrator of   (hereinafter referred to as "the Administrator") shall be responsible for the attainment of the purposes and objectives of this  .

(b) In carrying out his responsibilities under this  , the Administrator shall, in conformity with all applicable requirements of law, designate facilities which have given rise to a conviction for an offense under section 113 (c) (1) of the Act. The Administrator shall, from time to time, publish and circulate to all   agencies lists of those facilities, together with the names and addresses of the persons who have been convicted of such offenses. Whenever the Administrator determines that the condition which gave rise to a conviction has been corrected, he shall promptly remove the facility and the name and address of the person concerned from the list.

 . 3. Contracts,  , or  . (a) Except as provided in section 8 of this  , no Federal agency shall enter into any contract for the procurement of goods, materials, or services which is to be performed in whole or in part in a facility then designated by the Administrator pursuant to section 2.

(b) Except as provided in section 8 of this  , no Federal agency authorized to extend Federal assistance by way of grant, loan, or contract shall extend such assistance in any case in which it is to be used to support any activity or program involving the use of a facility then designated by the Administrator pursuant to section 2.

 . 4. Procurement, Grant, and  .  ,  , and, to the extent necessary, any supplemental or comparable regulations issued by any agency of the Executive Branch shall, following consultation with the Administrator, be amended to require, as a condition of entering into, renewing, or extending any contract for the procurement of goods, materials, or services or extending any assistance by way of grant, loan, or contract, inclusion of a provision requiring compliance with the Act and standards issued pursuant thereto in the facilities in which the contract is to be performed, or which are involved in the activity or program to receive assistance.

 . 5. Rules and Regulations. The Administrator shall issue such rules, regulations, standards, and guidelines as he may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 6. Cooperation and Assistance. The head of each Federal agency shall take such steps as may be necessary to insure that all officers and employees of his agency whose duties entail compliance or comparable functions with respect to contracts, grants, and loans are familiar with the provisions of this  . In addition to any other appropriate action, such officers and employees shall report promptly any condition in a facility which may involve noncompliance with the Act or any rules, regulations, standards, or guidelines issued pursuant to this   to the head of the agency, who shall transmit such report to the Administrator.

 . 7. Enforcement. The Administrator may recommend to   or other appropriate agency that legal proceedings be brought or other appropriate action be taken whenever he becomes aware of a breach of any provision required, under the amendments issued pursuant to section 4 of this  , to be included in a contract or other agreement.

 . 8. Exemptions—Reports to  . (a) Upon a determination that the paramount interest of   so requires

(1) The head of a   agency may exempt any contract, grant, or loan, and, following consultation with the Administrator, any class of contracts, grants or loans from the provisions of this  . In any such case, the head of the   agency granting such exemption shall (A) promptly notify the Administrator of such exemption and the justification therefor; (B) review the necessity for each such exemption  ; and (C) report to the Administrator   all such exemptions in effect. Exemptions granted pursuant to this section shall be for a period not to exceed  . Additional exemptions may be granted for periods not to exceed   upon the making of a new determination by the head of the   agency concerned.

(2) The Administrator may, by rule or regulation, exempt any or all Federal agencies from any or all of the provisions of this   with respect to any class or classes of contracts, grants, or loans which (A) involve less than specified dollar amounts, or (B) have a minimal potential impact upon the environment, or (C) involve persons who are not prime contractors or direct recipients of Federal assistance by way of contracts, grants, or loans.

(b) Federal agencies shall reconsider any exemption granted under subsection (a) whenever requested to do so by the Administrator.

(c) The Administrator shall   notify the President and the   of all exemptions granted, or in effect, under this   during  .

 . 9. Related Actions. The imposition of any sanction or penalty under or pursuant to this   shall not relieve any person of any legal duty to comply with any provision of the Act.

 . 10. Applicability. This Order shall not apply to contracts, grants, or loans involving the use of facilities located outside  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
