Executive Order  —Amending Executive Order No.  , Further Providing for the Stabilization of the Economy
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Subsection (a) of section 1 of Executive Order No.   of January 26,  , is amended by inserting in lieu of the first sentence thereof the following:

"The Pay Board and Price Commission established by sections 7 and 8 of Executive Order No. 11627 of  , are hereby continued, except to the extent that the language prescribing the composition of   and   has been modified by sections 7 (b) and 8(b) of this  , as amended, and shall act as agencies of  . The Chairman of each of these bodies, acting in accordance with the majority vote of its members, shall, pursuant to the goals established by  , take such steps as may be necessary, and authorized by or pursuant to this  , to stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries."

 . 2. Subsection (b) of section 7 of Executive Order No.   is amended by inserting in lieu of the first four sentences thereof the following:

"The Board shall be composed of such members as the President has appointed or may, from time to time, appoint and who arc serving pursuant to such appointment. Such members shall be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the   ; except that the foregoing requirement with respect to   confirmation does not apply to any member of the   who was serving, pursuant to appointment by the President, on  , and who continues to serve pursuant to such appointment, after such time. The members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President and one of the members designated by the President shall serve as Chairman."

 . 3. (a) Subsection (b) of section 8 of Executive Order No.   is amended by inserting in lieu of the first two sentences thereof the following:

"The   shall be composed of such members as the President has appointed or may, from time to time, appoint and who are serving pursuant to such appointment. Such members shall be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the  ; except that the foregoing requirement with respect to   confirmation does not apply to any member of the   who was serving, pursuant to appointment by the President, on  , and who continues to serve pursuant to such appointment, after such time."

 . 3. (b) The penultimate sentence of section 8 (b) of Executive Order No.   is amended by deleting "Executive Director of the  " and inserting in lieu thereof "Executive Director of the  ".

 . 4. All orders, regulations, circulars, or other directives issued and all other actions taken pursuant to Executive Order No.  , as amended, Executive Order No.  , as amended, and Executive Order No.  , and in effect on the date of this  , are hereby confirmed and ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect, unless and until altered, amended, or revoked by competent authority.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 

NOTE: For the President's remarks and statement on economic stabilization, see the two preceding items.
