Executive Order  —Providing for the Return of Certain Lands to  
 
 

In  ,   entered into a treaty with the Yakima Tribe of  . The treaty created a reservation, generally described by natural landmarks, for the exclusive use and benefit of the  . Over  , there have been continuing disputes regarding the true location of the reservation boundary.

In  , President   created by proclamation   in an area near the western boundary of  . In  , President   extended the boundary of that   to include a tract of some 21,000 acres, then mistakenly thought to be public land. The tract is included within a larger area now called  . In  , a portion of the tract was designated the Mount Adams Wild Area, and this portion has been administered since   for the public benefit under the Wilderness Act.

In  ,   found that this tract had originally been intended for inclusion in the Yakima Reservation. However, the   does not have authority to return specific property to a claimant; it may only grant money damages. Accordingly, the   sought Executive action for return of its land.

The Attorney General has at my request reviewed the specific history and background of this particular case, including the principles which govern the taking of land by   and the question of whether this particular land was so taken. In a recent opinion, the Attorney General has advised me that, in these exceptional and unique circumstances, the land was not taken by   within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment and that possession of this particular tract can be restored to the   by Executive action.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly 16 U.S.C. 473, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. A portion of the eastern boundary of   is modified as follows:

Beginning at the point on the main ridge of the Cascade Mountains, where   boundary as located by the   Pecore survey from   intersects said main ridge; thence southwesterly along the main ridge of the Cascade Mountains to the summit or the pinnacle of  , as shown on the diagram of   attached to the Presidential proclamation of  , 37 Stat.  ; thence southerly along a divide between the watersheds of the   and White Salmon Rivers as shown on the   Calvin Reconnaissance Survey Map (Petitioner's Exhibit No. 4,  .  ,  ) to its intersection with the north line of Section 34, Township 7 North, Range 11 East,  .

 . 2. The Secretary of the   is directed to assume jurisdiction over the tract of land heretofore administered as a portion of   and excluded from   of this order, and to administer it for the use and benefit of the Yakima Tribe of   as a portion of the reservation created by the Treaty of  , 12 Stat. 951.

 . 3. Any prior order or proclamation relating to the tract of land affected by this order, to the extent inconsistent with this order, is hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 
