Executive Order  —Providing for an Orderly Termination of the Economic Stabilization Program
 
 

To provide for an orderly transition from mandatory controls,, for the continuation of enforcement procedures under the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, with respect to acts committed prior to  , and for the continuation of monitoring and other functions of  , I am issuing this Executive Order to be effective only from  , through  , At midnight on  , the authority contained in the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, to impose a system of mandatory controls expired.

The expiration of continuing mandatory controls authority does not preclude   from continuing to consider matters properly before it that relate to wages paid for work performed prior to  , and prices charged prior to  . The   shall continue to receive and consider requests for approval of wage and salary increases or for exceptions from applicable wage and salary guidelines with respect to pay adjustments for work performed prior to  , and shall continue to challenge and review wages and salaries paid for work performed prior to  , as appropriate, and to the extent permitted by law. The   shall continue to receive and consider requests for exceptions from price regulations and orders with respect to prices in effect prior to  , and shall continue to review price adjustments made prior to  , as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law.

The Cost of Living Council will be terminating its work, and its staff will be redeployed over  . Given the extraordinary sacrifice, contribution, and outstanding work this staff has provided the   people, it is incumbent upon us to make a substantial effort to recognize and retain those   people who desire to stay within  . Council staff have skills which are in continuous demand in all Federal agencies and represent a broad spectrum of highly competent professional and clerical talent. It is my desire that departments and agencies receive returning career employees with reemployment rights at the same salary and grade obtained while serving at the  , to the maximum extent possible. This also applies to   employees who have served in  . In addition to returning career Civil Service Cost of Living Council employees with Federal reemployment rights, we must provide an opportunity for those   employees who are serving under Emergency Indefinite status to remain in   if they so desire. These employees will also need favorable consideration for available vacancies in  , and should, to the maximum extent possible, be given salaries commensurate with those attained while serving at the  .

I am directing each Federal agency to participate in this placement effort by giving the highest attention to filling agency vacancies quickly with qualified Cost of Living Council employees who will be referred by the   or  . To assure the fullest cooperation in this important effort, I have designated the Chairman of   to be directly responsible to me for this placement effort. He will ensure that every effort is made to identify and refer qualified Cost of Living Council employees to fill existing vacancies, and will report to me   concerning this placement process.

In order to accomplish these purposes, and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Cost of Living Council (hereinafter referred to as  "), as established by section 2 of Executive Order No. 11615 of August 15,  , and continued by Executive Order No. 11695 of  , and Executive Order No. 11730 of  , is hereby continued through  . The Secretary of the   serving on  , shall continue to serve as Chairman of the   so long as he shall serve as Secretary of the  . The Director of   shall thereafter serve as Chairman of the  . The Chairman of   shall continue to serve as Vice Chairman of the  .

(b) All the powers and duties conferred upon the President by the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended, and delegated to the Chairman of   by Executive Order No.  , including the powers necessary to take appropriate actions with respect to any action or pending proceedings, civil or criminal, not finally determined on  , or with respect to any act committed prior to  , are, to the extent necessary, hereby continued through  .

 . 2. The Chairman of   shall provide for the orderly conclusion of the  's activities through  . To this end the Chairman shall make appropriate provision for completion of any reports required by the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended; for an appropriate compilation of the records, data and any other material in the possession of the  ; and for the establishment of an archive for   documents.

 . 3. The Chairman of   shall provide for the continuation of any action or pending proceedings, civil or criminal, not finally determined prior to  , as appropriate. The Chairman shall continue to receive reports and review pay adjustments with respect to work performed prior to  , and price adjustments with respect to prices charged prior to  , and take appropriate remedial action where he finds such adjustments were in violation of applicable Economic Stabilization Regulations.

 . 4. The Chairman of   shall, through  , monitor the decontrol commitments entered into by various firms at the time controls were eliminated and shall take all appropriate action to ensure that the commitments are honored.

 . 5. The Chairman of   is hereby authorized, for the period  , through  , to continue to:

(a) Review the programs and activities of   departments and agencies and the private sector which may have adverse effects on supply and cause increases in prices, and make recommendations for changes in such programs and activities to increase supply and restrain prices;

(b) Review industrial capacity, demand, and supply in various sectors of the economy, working with the industrial groups concerned and appropriate governmental agencies to encourage price restraint;

(c) Establish procedures to work with labor and management in the various sectors of the economy having special economic problems as well as with appropriate Government agencies, to improve the structure of collective bargaining and the performance of those sectors in restraining prices;

(d) Develop plans and procedures to improve wage and price data bases for various sectors of the economy in order to improve the factual basis for collective bargaining and to encourage price restraint;

(e) Focus attention on the need to increase productivity in both the public and private sectors of the economy;

(f) Monitor the economy as a whole, including such matters as wages, costs, productivity, prices, sales, profits, imports, and exports.

 . 6. Nothing in this order shall be construed as authorizing the imposition or reimposition of any mandatory economic controls with respect to prices, rents, wages, salaries, corporate dividends, interest rates, or any similar transfer other than on the basis of the authority provided in sections 2 and 3 of this order with respect to enforcement activity related to the period prior to  .

 . 7. The Chairman of  , in carrying out the provisions of this order, may provide for the establishment of committees, action groups, and other comparable groups, and may take such other actions as he determines to be necessary or appropriate, through  .

 . 8.   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) established by section 2 of Executive Order  , of  , and continued by Executive Order  , of  , is hereby continued through  , and shall continue to act as an agency of  . The CISC shall continue to perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of wages and salaries in the construction industry as the Chairman of the   may delegate to it, for purposes of accomplishing the orderly conclusion of the activities of the CISC through  . The craft dispute boards (hereinafter referred to as "boards") established by associations of contractors and national and international unions under section 2 of Executive Order   and continued by Executive Order   are hereby continued through  . Each board shall be composed of appropriate labor and management representatives. The boards shall continue to perform such functions with respect to the stabilization of wages and salaries in the construction industry as the Chairman of the   may prescribe for purposes of accomplishing the orderly conclusion of the activities of the CISC through  .

 . 9.   established by section 6 of Executive Order  , of  , is hereby continued through  .   shall be composed of the Director of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Vice Chairman of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Director of  , and such others as the President may, from time to time, designate. The   shall continue to review Government activities significantly influencing health care expenses and make recommendations to the Chairman of the   concerning these matters.

 . 10.   established by section 7 of Executive Order  , of  , is hereby continued through  .   shall be composed of the Director of the  , the Vice Chairman of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and such others as the President may, from time to time designate. The   shall continue to review Government activities significantly affecting food costs and prices and make recommendations to the Chairman of the   concerning these matters.

 . 11.   established by section 8 of Executive Order  , of  , is hereby continued through  .   shall be composed of such members as the President may, from time to time, designate. The   shall continue to provide advice for improving the collective bargaining process and for assuring wage and salary settlements consistent with gains in productivity and the goal of stemming the rate of inflation.

 . 12. The following committees are hereby abolished:

Effective  (a)   established by section 6 of Executive Order  , of  ;

Effective immediately:

(b) (1)   established by section 7 of Executive Order 11695;

(2)   and Dividends established by section 9 of Executive Order   and continued by section 9 of Executive Order  .

The Chairman of the   shall make appropriate provision for the disposition of the records, property, personnel, and funds relating to the committees abolished by this section.

 . 13. This order does not affect any authority exercised by   with respect to pricing and allocation of crude oil, residual fuel oil, and refined petroleum products (as defined in   of  ), pursuant to the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended,   of  , Executive Order  , or    , as amended.

 . 14. Executive Order  , of  , Executive Order  , of  , and Executive Order  , of  , are hereby superseded except to the extent necessary to carry out the functions and duties provided by this order.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .

NOTE: For a statement by the President on the   order, see the preceding item.
