Executive Order  —Providing for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections  ,  , and   of title 5, United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I—GENERAL POLICY

SECTION 101. Heads of agencies are directed:

(a) To make full use of the authorities in chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, and the statutory pay systems to which section 5301 of that chapter refers to secure and maintain the high quality of   personnel necessary for an effective and efficient Government service;

(b) To use these authorities to (1) motivate employees to perform continuously at their full capacity, and (2) provide fair treatment in pay matters of all employees subject to the statutory pay systems; and

(c) To take appropriate measures to ensure that the   receives full value for its expenditures for salaries and that every employee is paid no more than is warranted by the nature of his assignments and the degree of competence with which he performs them.

 . 102. As used in this order, the term "agency" has the meaning given to it by section 5102 (a) of title 5, United States Code.

PART II—ANNUAL PAY  

SECTION 201. The Director,  , and the Chairman,  , are hereby designated as the President's agent under section 5305 of title 5, United States Code.

 . 202. The head of each agency employing personnel under the statutory pay systems (as defined in section 5301 (c) of title 5, United States Code) shall provide such information and technical assistance with respect to the statutory pay systems applicable to his agency as may be requested by the President's agent in carrying out the provisions of section 5305 of title 5, United States Code.

 . 203. The following agencies are designated under section 5305 (q) of title 5, United States Code, to prescribe the rules necessary to convert the rates of basic pay or salaries of officers and employees to the new pay rates as adjusted for each statutory pay system under section 5305 of title 5, United States Code:

(i) General  — ;

(ii) Foreign Service schedules— ;

(iii) Schedules for   of  -- .

PART III—SPECIAL RATES FOR RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION

SECTION 301 (a).   is hereby designated to exercise—

(1) the authority of the President under section 5303 (a) and (b) of title 5, United States Code, to establish or revise higher minimum rates of pay, and

(2) the authority of the President under section 5303(d) of title 5, United States Code, to prescribe conversion rules for adjusting an employee's pay.

(b) Before exercising these functions for positions compensated under the Foreign Service schedules or under the schedules for physicians, dentists, and nurses in   of  ,   shall consult with the head of the agency concerned.

 . 302(a). Before establishing higher rates of pay under section 5303 (a) of title 5, United States Code,   shall consider whether—

(1) an adequate recruiting program has been implemented and that attention has been given to the improvement of working conditions and to other relevant factors; and

(2) adequate recruitment or retention cannot be achieved by alternate means such as job redesign or skills improvement training programs.

(b)   may not establish higher rates for all positions in a statutory grade or level in a given area unless the   determines that adequate recruitment and retention cannot be achieved by establishment of higher rates for certain occupations or groups of occupations.

 . 303.   shall review, at least annually, higher rates of pay established under section 5303 (a) of title 5, United States Code, and shall continue, abolish, or revise the higher rates in consideration of the facts and pertinent criteria under the law and this order.

 . 304. An employee's basic pay rate may not be reduced solely because of a revision to, or cancellation of, the higher rates established under section 5303 (a) of title 5, United States Code.

PART IV—GENERAL SCHEDULE SYSTEM

SECTION 401 (a). Heads of agencies shall ensure that agency managers and supervisors at all levels use the position classification plan of the General   system as a tool for effective and efficient human resources utilization.

(b)   shall revoke the position classification authority of an agency under the General Schedule whenever the   finds, in connection with its regular evaluation, or otherwise, that an agency has failed to classify its positions in accordance with or consistently with applicable standards.

 . 402.   shall issue such regulations and standards as may be necessary to ensure that only those employees whose work is of an acceptable level of competence receive periodic step-increases under the provisions of section 5335 of title 5, United States Code.

 . 403 (a).   shall require each agency employing personnel under the General Schedule to establish a plan for granting additional step-increases in recognition of high quality performance under section 5336 of title 5, United States Code, and shall require that the plans (1) be as simple as practicable, (2) provide for delegation of authority to an appropriate management level, (3) seek to ensure fairness to all employees, and (4) provide for informing employees,  , of the number of additional step-increases granted in their agencies.

(b)   shall (1) establish such regulations and standards as it deems appropriate for agency plans, (2) aid and advise agencies in the formulation and administration of the plans, and (3) evaluate the plans and their operation to ensure that step-increases are granted in a manner that is fair to employees and provides motivation for high quality performance.

 . 404.  , in prescribing regulations for higher rates of pay under section 5333 (b) of title 5, United States Code, for employees having responsibility for supervision of prevailing-rate employees, shall give effect to the following:

(a) An irregular prevailing rate (such as the saved rate of a prevailing-rate employee not related to his current position) shall not serve to advance the pay rate of a supervisor under the General Schedule.

(b) The relative rate-range of a General   supervisor and a prevailing-rate employee supervised by him shall be considered as well as the specific rate either is receiving at a given time.

(c) Due consideration shall be given to equities among General   supervisors as well as those between a General   supervisor and a prevailing-rate employee supervised by him.

PART V—PRIOR ORDER SUPERSEDED

SECTION 501. Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , are hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
