Executive Order  —Providing for   for   and its Employees
 
 

Under the Postal Reorganization Act (Public Law 91-375),   (referred to hereafter as  ") is charged with the establishment and adjustment of fair and equitable rates of postage, fees for postal services, and classifications of mail. It is essential to public confidence in   that the activities, procedures, decisions, and recommendations of the   be impartial and disinterested and free from taint or suspicion of favoritism of any kind whatsoever, both in fact and in appearance.

NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3, and Section 7301 of Title 5, United States Code, and the Postal Reorganization Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 101. The   is subject to Executive Order No.   of  , "Prescribing Standards of Ethical Conduct for Government Officers and Employees," and Part 735 of the regulations of   (5   Part 735).

Section 102.   shall prepare initial standards of conduct regulations for the  . The regulations shall contain such provisions as will ensure that the   and employees of the   are fully guarded against involvement in conflicts of interest situations, or the appearance thereof, or other conduct that may lessen public confidence. The regulations shall include provision for:

(a) concurrent filing of confidential statements of outside employment and financial interests by employees of the   with a designated official of the   and the Chairman of  ;

(b) strict control of ex parte contacts with the   and the Commissioners or employees of the   regarding particular matters at issue in contested proceedings before the  . The control of such contacts shall include, but not be limited to, the maintenance of public records of such contacts which fully identify the individuals involved and the nature of the subject matter discussed; and

(c) prohibition against the receipt of honoraria, travel expenses, entertainment, gifts, loans, favors, or any thing of value by a Commissioner or employee of the   from an individual (other than one having a close family or personal relationship) or organization having, or likely to have, business with the  .

Section 103.   shall issue the initial standards of conduct regulations applicable to the   not   after the effective date of this Order. Thereafter, the   may from time to time amend the regulations, consistent with this  . The regulations and any amendments thereto shall be published in  .

RICHARD NIXON

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in the form of a   press release.
