Executive Order  —The President's   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to provide for the carrying out of the provisions of the Joint Resolution approved  , ch. 302, 63 Stat. 409, as amended, and the provisions of section 8 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 38), it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment and composition of  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the   or as  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of a Chairman and not more than four Vice Chairmen, who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the President, and of so many other members as may be appointed thereto from time to time by the Chairman of   from among persons (including representatives of organizations) who can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the  . Members appointed by the Chairman shall be appointed for a term of   and may be reappointed. The Chairman of   may at any time terminate the service of any member of  , except any member appointed by the President.

(c) The Chairman of  , upon the advice of   (hereinafter provided for), may designate as, or invite to be, associate members of   any heads of   departments and agencies which have responsibility for rehabilitation services or promotional activities touching the field of interest of the   or which are leading employers of handicapped personnel.

(d) Representatives of industry, labor, public and private agencies, and other concerned organizations and individuals may be invited to attend meetings of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the Committee. The President's Committee shall facilitate the development of maximum employment opportunities for the physically handicapped, mentally retarded, and mentally restored. To this end the   shall supply information to employers, labor unions, and national and international organizations, conduct a program of public education, promote cooperation between organizations and agencies, and enlist the support of   officials,   and local officials,  ' and local   of the Handicapped, professional organizations, organized labor, and appropriate international organizations. In carrying out the functions vested in it by section 8 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended, the   shall work closely with  ,  , and  ,  ,   employment-security agencies, and   vocational rehabilitation agencies.

 . 3.  . (a) There is hereby established   of the President's  .   shall be composed of the Chairman of  , who shall also be the Chairman of  , the Vice Chairmen of the President's Committee, and so many additional members as will provide   of not less than fifteen and not more than fifty members. The said additional members shall be appointed   by the Chairman of  , from among the members of   or otherwise. The Chairman of   may at any time terminate the service of any member of  .

(b)   shall advise and assist the Chairman of   in the conduct of the business of   and, as authorized by   or the Chairman thereof (with due regard for the responsibilities of other Federal agencies), shall study the problems of the handicapped in obtaining and retaining suitable employment, invite authorities in the various professional, technical, and other pertinent fields to assist in the exploration of those problems, and review and develop plans and projects for promoting the employment of the handicapped.

 . 4.  . There is hereby established  , which shall advise the President's Committee with respect to the responsibilities of the  . The   shall be composed of the Chairman of  , who shall also be the Chairman of the  , and of the following-named officers, or their respective alternatives: The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , and the Chairman of  .

 . 5. Administrative and incidental matters. (a) The President's Committee,  , and the   shall each meet on call of the Chairman of   at a time and place designated by him. In the case of   and  , the Chairman shall call at least one meeting and two meetings, respectively, to be held during each calendar year.

(b) In the absence of designation by the President, the Chairman of   may from time to time designate a Vice Chairman of   to be one or more of the following-named in the absence of the Chairman: Acting Chairman of  , Acting Chairman of  , and Acting Chairman of  . The Chairman of the President's Committee shall from time to time assign other duties to the Vice Chairmen thereof.

(c) The Chairman of the President's Committee shall on behalf of the President direct the President's Committee and its functions.

(d) The Chairman may from time to time prescribe such necessary rules, procedures, and policies relating to  ,  , and  , and their affairs, as are not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.

(e) The Vice Chairmen shall advise and counsel the   and shall represent the   on appropriate occasions.

(f) All members (including the Chairman and Vice Chairmen) of  ,  , and the   shall serve without compensation. The Chairman and the Vice Chairmen of the President's Committee may receive transportation and per diem allowances as authorized by law for persons serving without compensation.

(g) Employees of the President's Committee shall be appointed, subject to law, and shall be directed, by the Chairman of the  . To such extent as may be mutually arranged by the Chairman of the   and the Secretary of  , employees of the   shall be subject to the administrative rules, regulations, and procedures of  .

(h)   is requested to make available to the President's Committee necessary office space and to furnish the  , under such arrangements respecting financing as may be appropriate, necessary equipment, supplies, and services. The estimates of appropriations for the operations of the   shall be included within the framework of the appropriation structure of  , in such manner as the Director of   may prescribe. The Chairman of the  , in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for  , shall be responsible for the preparation and justification of the estimates of appropriations for the  .

 . 6. Prior orders; transition. (a) To the extent that this order is inconsistent with any provision of any prior order, or with any provision of any regulation or other measure or disposition, heretofore issued, made, or taken by the President or by any other officer of the executive branch of the Government, this order shall control. Executive  .   of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby superseded.

(b) Without further action by the President or the Chairman of the  , all members, employees, records, property, funds, and pending business of   provided for in Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, shall on the date of this order become members, employees, records, property, funds, and pending business of the   established by this order.

(c) The tenure of persons as members of the   in pursuance of the provisions of section 6 (b) of this order, (i), in the case of persons appointed to the predecessor   by the President, shall be at the pleasure of the President, and (ii), in the case of other members, shall be for periods equal to their respective unexpired terms under Executive Order No.  , as amended, but shall also be subject to the provisions of the last sentence of section 1 (b) of this order.

RICHARD NIXON

 

 
