Executive Order  —Enlargement of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission
 
 

The Governors of the member States of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission and of the Souris-Red-Rainy River Basins Commission, together with  , have requested, or concurred in, the enlargement of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission to include those portions of   and   that are drained by   system.   terminated on  , by operation of Section 7 of Executive Order No.  , as amended. I have determined that it would be in the public interest to comply with the above request.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 201 of the Water Resources Planning Act (   ), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Executive  .   of  , is hereby amended as follows:

(1) Section 2 is amended to read as follows:

" .  . It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission referred to in Section 1 of this order shall extend to those portions of  ,  ,  ,  , and   that are located within the Upper Mississippi,  ,  , or   drainage basins. The Upper Mississippi River drainage basin is defined as the drainage basin of the Mississippi River above the mouth of the Ohio River, excluding the drainage basin of the Missouri River above a point immediately below the mouth of the Gasconade River."

(2) Section 3(3) is amended to read as follows: "(3) one member from each of the following  :  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  ,".

(3) Section 5 is amended to read as follows:

" . 5. Consultation with Adjoining States. The   is expected to provide for procedures for consultation with  ,  ,  , and   on any matter which might affect the water and related land resources of the headwater drainages of the Mississippi River Basin or the drainages of the Souris, Red, or   in those   and to give notice to those   of meetings of the  ."

(4) Section 6 is hereby redesignated as Section 7 and a new Section 6 is hereby inserted immediately after Section 5 as follows:

" . 6 International Coordination. The Chairman of the   is hereby authorized and directed to refer to the   any matters under consideration by the   which relate to areas of interest or jurisdiction of  ,   and  . The   shall consult on these matters as appropriate with   and   through its   for the purpose of enhancing international coordination."

 . 2. All funds, property, records, employees, assets, and obligations of   are, with the concurrence of Governors of the affected  , transferred to the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission, effective as of  .

 . 3. Executive  .  , and Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby superseded.

RICHARD NIXON

 ,

 .
