118 HRES 109 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Social Security should be preserved and protected for current beneficiaries, and for future generations to come.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 109
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 8, 2023
Ms. Tenney
(for herself,
Mr. Ciscomani
,
Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Wittman
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Mr. Carey
,
Ms. Malliotakis
,
Mr. Kean of New Jersey
,
Mr. Higgins of Louisiana
,
Mr. LaLota
, and
Mr. Smucker
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and Means
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Social Security should be preserved and protected for current beneficiaries, and for future generations to come.
Whereas Social Security provides essential income security through retirement, disability, and survivor benefits for over 66,000,000 Americans of all ages;
Whereas Social Security is essential to the dignity and security of the Nation’s elderly, disabled, and their families;
Whereas each payday, American workers send their hard-earned payroll taxes to Social Security and in return are promised income security for themselves and their families upon retirement, disability, or death, and that commitment must be kept;
Whereas the policies of the Biden Administration have resulted in record inflation, rising prices, and putting severe strain on Americans, in particular those on Social Security; and
Whereas workers’ ability to save and invest for their own retirement will continue to be particularly important, especially for younger workers, to enhance their own retirement security: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that Social Security should be preserved and protected for current beneficiaries, and for future generations to come.
