118 HRES 1300 IH: Condemning campus protest backers.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1300
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 13, 2024
Mr. Palmer
(for himself,
Mr. Owens
,
Mr. Edwards
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. Ogles
,
Mr. Sessions
,
Mr. Baird
,
Mr. Higgins of Louisiana
,
Mr. Yakym
,
Mr. Guest
,
Mrs. Lesko
,
Mr. Fleischmann
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mr. Rouzer
,
Mr. Meuser
, and
Mr. Donalds
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Condemning campus protest backers.
Whereas violent protesters have taken over dozens of spaces on college campuses across the country, impacting the education of thousands of tuition-paying students;
Whereas these protesters have called for
Death to America
and
Death to Israel
, a United States ally;
Whereas these protesters have threatened and targeted other students with racist and antisemitic rhetoric and blocked students from attending their classes;
Whereas protesters have torn down and desecrated flags of the United States and replaced them with Palestinian flags;
Whereas Hamas, a radically violent terrorist organization responsible for countless murders and rapes, runs the Palestinian Government;
Whereas terrorist groups in Iran have praised and shown solidarity with these protesters;
Whereas protesters at George Washington University defaced and desecrated a statue of its namesake, the first President of the United States, and a former professor of the school sympathetic to the protesters accosted a Member of this body with racist language;
Whereas protesters at Columbia University took over and occupied a campus building, requiring the New York Police Department to restore order;
Whereas, at Columbia University and the University of Southern California, protester behavior forced the cancellation of commencement ceremonies for graduating students;
Whereas these protests have been funded and organized by leftist groups like Students for Justice in Palestine, IfNotNow, and Within Our Lifetime, all of which received funding from George Soros;
Whereas Students for Justice in Palestine called the deadly attacks on Israeli civilians on October 7, 2023, a
historic win
; and
Whereas David Rockefeller, Jr., and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund gave to Jewish Voice for Peace, which blames the October 7 attacks on Israel and the United States rather than Hamas: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the anarchy and insurrection taking place on college campuses as well as the groups organizing it;
(2)
condemns George Soros and all those who are funding the groups behind these protests;
(3)
calls on all politicians and political parties of all ideologies to refuse to accept any contributions for any purpose from organizations and entities funding anti-American and antisemitic demonstrations; and
(4)
calls for a full investigation of all foreign adversaries engaged in promoting and provoking campus and public unrest.
