118 HRES 1457 IH: Strongly condemning Vice President Kamala Harris for championing antilaw enforcement policies and, as a result, encouraging lawlessness across the country.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1457
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 17, 2024
Mr. Arrington
(for himself,
Mr. Reschenthaler
,
Mr. Meuser
,
Mr. Self
,
Mr. Norman
,
Mr. Biggs
,
Mr. Ogles
,
Mr. Crenshaw
,
Mr. Buchanan
, and
Mr. Webster of Florida
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Strongly condemning Vice President Kamala Harris for championing antilaw enforcement policies and, as a result, encouraging lawlessness across the country.
Whereas then-Senator from California Kamala Harris said,
to believe that by putting more police on the street, you’re going to have more safety—that’s just wrong
;
Whereas then-Senator from California Kamala Harris said,
I know what a crime looks like. I will tell you: an undocumented immigrant is not a criminal
;
Whereas then-Senator from California and Presidential candidate Kamala Harris publicly supported repealing section 275 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1325
), to decriminalize illegal immigration;
Whereas Vice President Kamala Harris, acting as
Border Czar
, implemented open-border policies that have resulted in an exponential increase in crime, fentanyl poisoning, and criminal aliens perpetrating violent acts against innocent Americans;
Whereas then-Senator from California Kamala Harris compared U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers to members of the Ku Klux Klan;
Whereas Vice President Kamala Harris, acting as President of the Senate, delivered the tiebreaking vote to appoint Rachael Rollins to serve as the United States Attorney for Massachusetts, who, while District Attorney of Suffolk County, Massachusetts, published a list of 15 crimes
for which the default is to decline prosecuting
, including shoplifting, breaking and entering, malicious destruction of property, resisting arrest, and drug possession with intent to distribute;
Whereas then-Senator from California Kamala Harris publicly promoted the
Minnesota Freedom Fund
, to pay bail and expedite the release of individuals arrested for alleged crimes including rioting, sexual assault, domestic violence, assault of a police officer, and murder;
Whereas an individual, who was released from jail after bail was paid by the Minnesota Freedom Fund, murdered another individual 3 weeks later;
Whereas then-Senator from California Kamala Harris proposed a procriminal justice reform plan to end cash bail and eliminate mandatory minimum sentencing;
Whereas, in June 2020, then-Senator from California Kamala Harris publicly praised Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti for his proposed budget cut of $150,000,000 to the Los Angeles Police Department;
Whereas, during the height of the 2020 criminal riots experienced across the United States, then-Senator from California Kamala Harris’ soft-on-crime policies and antilaw enforcement rhetoric emboldened criminal riots across the country, resulting in billions in property damage, hundreds of police injured and hospitalized, and leaving at least 25 Americans dead, including law enforcement officers in the line of duty;
Whereas widespread criminal activity and prominent leaders advocating to
defund the police
caused a massive nationwide increase in law enforcement retirements (up 45 percent) and resignations (up 18 percent) between April 2020 and April 2021; and
Whereas the violent crime rates in the top 70 major United States cities for homicide, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault increased by over 250 percent since 2020 according to statistics compiled by the Major Cities Chiefs Association: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
denounces past legislation of Vice President Kamala Harris aimed at keeping criminals on the streets; and
(2)
condemns the policies and rhetoric by Vice President Kamala Harris that enable criminal behavior, promote lawlessness over the safety and security of the United States people, and financially support violent criminals.
