118 HRES 1027 IH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 626) to advance commonsense policy priorities.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1027
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 23, 2024
Mr. Fitzpatrick
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 626) to advance commonsense policy priorities.
That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the bill (H.R. 626) to advance commonsense policy priorities. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute specified in section 3 of this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by Representative Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania or a designee and an opponent; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 626.
3.
The amendment in the nature of a substitute referred to in the first section of this resolution is an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of H.R. 7372 as introduced, modified by an amendment received for printing in the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII dated at least one day before the consideration of H.R. 626, if submitted by Representative Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. If more than one such amendment is submitted, then only the last amendment submitted shall be considered as the modification.
