118 HRES 400 IH: Commending the Tennessee Valley Authority on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 400
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 15, 2023
Mr. Fleischmann
(for himself,
Mr. Aderholt
,
Mr. Strong
,
Mr. Rogers of Alabama
, and
Mr. Guest
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Commending the Tennessee Valley Authority on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933.
Whereas the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 (
16 U.S.C. 831 et seq.
) was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on May 18, 1933, to improve navigation along the Tennessee River, reduce the risk of floods and flood damage, provide low-cost electricity, and promote environmental stewardship and economic development in the region;
Whereas the Tennessee Valley Authority’s (TVA) long-standing mission, born during the Great Depression, is to improve the quality of life across a 7-State region, including Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia;
Whereas the integrated management of the Tennessee River system by the TVA provides a wide range of benefits that includes reliable, affordable, and resilient electrical power, flood control, improving water quality and supply, enhancing recreation, and protecting public land;
Whereas the TVA has improved navigation of the Tennessee River system and facilitated river freight transportation;
Whereas the TVA has reduced the risk of flood damage through the construction of locks, dams, and reservoirs throughout the Tennessee Valley;
Whereas the TVA provides reliable, affordable, resilient, and increasingly clean electricity and has stimulated economic growth;
Whereas the TVA continues to promote economic development by helping companies and communities attract investments that bring good jobs to the Tennessee Valley; and
Whereas the TVA continues to pursue new ideas and innovate through the service of a committed and skilled workforce: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) on the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 (
16 U.S.C. 831 et seq.
);
(2)
honors the accomplishments of the TVA in improving the quality of life for the citizens throughout the Tennessee Valley by improving navigation, controlling floods, promoting environmental stewardship, and providing reliable, affordable, resilient, and increasingly clean electricity throughout the Tennessee Valley;
(3)
recognizes the TVA, and all its employees and retirees, for its long and proud history of service in the areas of energy, the environment, and economic development throughout Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia; and
(4)
respectfully requests the Clerk of the House of Representatives to transmit a copy of this resolution for appropriate display to—
(A)
the Chairman of the Board of the TVA, William Kilbride; and
(B)
the Chief Executive Officer of the TVA, Jeffrey Lyash.
