118 HRES 791 IH: Expressing support for the designation of October 2023 as “National Down Syndrome Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 791
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 17, 2023
Mr. Garbarino
(for himself,
Mr. Soto
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
, and
Mr. Bacon
) submitted the following resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of October 2023 as
National Down Syndrome Awareness Month
.
Whereas 1 in 700, or around 6,000, babies are born with Down syndrome in the United States every year, and each person with Down syndrome is an important member of our society;
Whereas life expectancy for people with Down syndrome has increased dramatically in recent decades, from 25 years of age in 1983, to 60 years of age in 2023;
Whereas people with Down syndrome attend school and work, participate in decisions that affect their livelihood, have meaningful relationships, vote, and contribute to society in many ways;
Whereas recent studies have shown that employees with disabilities, including Down syndrome, are loyal, dedicated, and productive workers;
Whereas, along with the care from their families, loved ones, and caregivers, research and advocacy for positive policy changes can improve the quality of life for members of the Down syndrome community;
Whereas, since 1984, Congress has been committed to increasing Federal funding for Down syndrome research and improving the quality of life for people with Down syndrome and their families;
Whereas the National Institutes of Health reports that Federal investment in Down syndrome research has increased from $18,000,000 in fiscal year 2014 to $124,000,000 in fiscal year 2022;
Whereas, in unison with increased funding from Congress, the National Institutes of Health has redoubled its effort in biomedical and Down syndrome research, especially through the INCLUDE initiative, which is advancing science on the underlying cause of Alzheimer’s disease among people with Down syndrome;
Whereas organizations in the nonprofit sector continue to advocate for Federal research, drive policy changes, educate the American public, create guidebooks for caregivers, and offer platforms to self-advocates who want to share their personal experiences with others about Down syndrome; and
Whereas people with Down syndrome, their families, Congress, and advocates remain focused on developing policies to ensure people with Down syndrome have every opportunity to live full and productive lives: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the designation of
National Down Syndrome Awareness Month
;
(2)
believes
National Down Syndrome Awareness Month
is an opportunity to celebrate people with Down syndrome and their families as they continue to advocate for access and opportunity to live fully included lives;
(3)
commends people with Down syndrome, their families, medical researchers, doctors, scientists, and organizations who are the driving force behind improving the quality of life for people with Down syndrome; and
(4)
reiterates its commitment to ensuring Federal investment into Down syndrome research and pursuing policies to better support the Down syndrome community.
