118 HRES 1288 IH: Condemning certain members of the intelligence community.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1288
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 11, 2024
Mr. Burchett
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Condemning certain members of the intelligence community.
Whereas, on October 14, 2020, a news outlet published a story revealing that Hunter Biden’s laptop contained emails suggesting Hunter Biden provided Ukrainian energy officials access to meet then-Vice President Joseph R. Biden;
Whereas, on October 19, 2020, fifty-one individuals who served in senior positions in the intelligence community and other administrative positions, including James Clapper, John Brennan, Mike Hayden, Leon Panetta, Thomas Finger, Rick Ledgett, John McLaughlin, Michael Morell, Mike Vickers, Doug Wise, Nick Rasmussen, Russ Travers, Andy Liepman, John Moseman, Larry Pfeiffer, Jeremy Bash, Rodney Snyder, Glenn Gerstell, David B. Buckley, Nada Bakos, Patty Brandmaier, James B. Bruce, David Cariens, Paul Kolbe, Peter Corsell, Brett Davis, Roger Zane George, Steven L. Hall, Kent Harrington, Don Hepburn, Timothy D. Kilbourn, Ron Marks, Jonna Hiestand Mendez, Emile Nakhleh, Gerald A. O’Shea, David Priess, Pam Purcilly, Marc Polymeropoulos, Chris Savos, Nick Shapiro, John Sipher, Stephen Slick, Cynthia Strand, Greg Tarbell, David Terry, Greg Treverton, John Tullius, David A. Vanell, Winston Wiley, Janice Cariens, and Kristin Wood, released a public letter regarding Hunter Biden’s laptop and the emails therein;
Whereas the letter stated,
emails purportedly belonging to Vice President Biden’s son Hunter, much of it related to his time serving on the board of the Ukrainian gas company Burisma, has all the classic earmarks of a Russian information operation
;
Whereas the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives confirmed that Hunter Biden exchanged emails with Devon Archer regarding a trip to Ukraine by then-Vice President Biden, in which Hunter Biden stated,
the announcement of my guy's upcoming travels should be characterized as part of our advice and thinking
; and
Whereas the United States Department of Justice has since recognized the laptop's authenticity in United States of America v. Robert Hunter Biden, and United States prosecutors have introduced it as evidence in a criminal trial: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes—
(A)
the authenticity of Hunter Biden’s laptop;
(B)
that the former officials listed above released the public letter within one month of a Presidential election;
(C)
that the statements in the public letter were meant to discredit the laptop story; and
(D)
that the former officials listed above abused their previous credentials to make misleading and unfounded claims to the American public; and
(2)
condemns the former officials listed above for interfering in the 2020 Presidential election.
