118 HRES 563 IH: Recognizing Vice Admiral Sean Buck for his 44 years of exemplary service to his country and his home State of Indiana.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-30
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 563
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 30, 2023
Mr. Baird
(for himself,
Mr. Bucshon
,
Mr. Carson
,
Mrs. Houchin
,
Mr. Pence
, and
Mr. Yakym
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Vice Admiral Sean Buck for his 44 years of exemplary service to his country and his home State of Indiana.
Whereas Vice Admiral Sean Buck has a long family lineage of military service with four consecutive generations of naval officers who have served from 1900 to the present day including his grandfather, Lieutenant Commander Arthur Whittier, his father, Navy Captain Edward G. Buck, himself, and his son, Lieutenant Commander Jeffrey S. Buck;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck is a native of Indianapolis, Indiana, where he attended North Central High School;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy and received his commission in 1983;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck was designated a naval flight officer in 1985;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck earned a Master of Arts in International Security Policy from George Washington University and has completed—
(1)
studies at the College of Naval Command and Staff, the United States Naval War College, and the Armed Forces Staff College;
(2)
a fellowship with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Seminar XXI on Foreign Politics, International Relations, and the National Interest; and
(3)
executive certificate programs at both the Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard Graduate School of Education;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck, as a flag officer, has served—
(1)
as commander, Patrol and Reconnaissance Force with the United States 5th and 7th Fleets, Fleet Air Forward, Patrol and Reconnaissance Group;
(2)
as the chief of staff, Strategy, Plans, and Policy (J5), the Joint Staff;
(3)
as Director of the 21st Century Sailor Office, where his portfolio included the Navy’s programs on sexual assault prevention and response, suicide prevention, alcohol abuse, and other destructive behaviors; and
(4)
as commander, United States Naval Forces Southern Command/United States 4th Fleet;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck’s awards include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior Service Medal (two awards), the Legion of Merit (five awards), and various other personal, unit, and service awards;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck is most proud of his various unit awards that reflect credit on the successful teams he has served with and the many skilled professionals he has been privileged to work alongside;
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck has served as the 63d Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy since July 26, 2019; and
Whereas Vice Admiral Buck will retire from the military on July 7, 2023: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives recognizes, honors, and commends Vice Admiral Sean Buck for his distinguished military career and his patriotism in service to his country and his home State of Indiana.
