118 HRES 1294 IH: Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2024 East Coast Hockey League’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1294
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 12, 2024
Mr. Donalds
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2024 East Coast Hockey League’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
Whereas, on June 8, 2024, the Florida Everblades hockey team won the 2024 Kelly Cup by defeating the Kansas City Mavericks by a score of 4 to 3 in overtime at Hertz Arena in Estero, Florida, to a record breaking 7,910 fans;
Whereas the victory by the Everblades in the championship game—
(1)
gives the Everblades the most East Coast Hockey League (
ECHL
) Championships in league history, earning their fourth Kelly Cup;
(2)
makes the Everblades the first team to three-peat the ECHL Championships;
(3)
marked the fourth time in 12 years that the Everblades claimed an ECHL Championship; and
(4)
was the Everblades seventh appearance in the Kelly Cup Finals, another new ECHL record;
Whereas the Head Coach and General Manager of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph, has been an outstanding role model and steadfast leader to the Everblades players and the community, as well as becoming tied with ECHL Hall of Fame Coach, John Brophy, leading teams to 3 ECHL Championships and becoming the ECHL all-time leader for career postgame coached (153) and wins (95);
Whereas Oliver Chau was named the 2024 Kelly Cup Playoffs Most Valuable Player after recording an impressive 9 goals and 23 points during the playoffs;
Whereas Will Reilly assisted Matthew Wedman in scoring the game winning goal, just 3 minutes into overtime, after coming back being down 3 to 1 in the third period;
Whereas Everblades players Cam Johnson and Joe Pendenza, and Head Coach Brad Ralph, join Jared Bednar, Scott Burt, Riley Gill, Louis Mass, Matt Register, and Patrick Wellar as individuals to have their name engraved on the Kelly Cup 3 times;
Whereas the Florida Everblades displayed relentless tenacity, unwavering composure, and exceptional teamwork this ECHL season in achieving the highest honor in the league; and
Whereas the Everblades have brought immense pride and honor to the State of Florida: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Florida Everblades for winning the 2024 Patrick J. Kelly Cup;
(2)
recognizes the on-ice and off-ice achievements of the players, coaches, and staff of the Florida Everblades; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the House Clerk transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the owner of the Florida Everblades, David Hoffmann; and
(B)
the Head Coach and General Manager of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph.
