118 HRES 477 IH: Authorizing and directing the Committee on the Judiciary to investigate whether sufficient grounds exist for the impeachment of Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 477
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 7, 2023
Ms. Greene of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Authorizing and directing the Committee on the Judiciary to investigate whether sufficient grounds exist for the impeachment of Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas.
That the Committee on the Judiciary, acting as a whole or by any subcommittee thereof appointed by the chairman for the purposes hereof and in accordance with the rules of the committee, is authorized and directed to investigate fully and completely whether sufficient grounds exist for the House of Representatives to exercise its constitutional power to impeach Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. The committee shall report to the House of Representatives such resolutions, articles of impeachment, or other recommendations as it deems proper.
2.
(a)
For the purpose of making such investigation, the committee is authorized to require—
(1)
by subpoena or otherwise—
(A)
the attendance and testimony of any person (including at a taking of a deposition by counsel for the committee); and
(B)
the production of such things; and
(2)
by interrogatory, the furnishing of such information; as it deems necessary to such investigation.
(b)
Such authority of the committee may be exercised—
(1)
by the chairman and the ranking minority member acting jointly, or, if either declines to act, by the other acting alone, except that in the event either so declines, either shall have the right to refer to the committee for decision the question whether such authority shall be so exercised and the committee shall be convened promptly to render that decision; or
(2)
by the committee acting as a whole or by subcommittee.
Subpoenas and interrogatories so authorized may be issued over the signature of the chairman, or ranking minority member, or any member designated by either of them, and may be served by any person designated by the chairman, or ranking minority member, or any member designated by either of them. The chairman, or ranking minority member, or any member designated by either of them (or, with respect to any deposition, answer to interrogatory, or affidavit, any person authorized by law to administer oaths) may administer oaths to any witness. For the purposes of this section,
things
includes, without limitation, books, records, correspondence, logs, journals, memorandums, papers, documents, writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, reproductions, recordings, tapes, transcripts, printouts, data compilations from which information can be obtained (translated if necessary, through detection devices into reasonably usable form), tangible objects, and other things of any kind.
