118 HRES 1612 EH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7673) to prohibit the Secretary of Energy from prescribing or enforcing energy conservation standards for clothes washers that are not cost-effective or technologically feasible, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (S. 4199) to authorize additional district judges for the district courts and convert temporary judgeships; and providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 5009) to reauthorize wildlife habitat and conservation programs, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1612
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
December 10, 2024
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7673) to prohibit the Secretary of Energy from prescribing or enforcing energy conservation standards for clothes washers that are not cost-effective or technologically feasible, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (S. 4199) to authorize additional district judges for the district courts and convert temporary judgeships; and providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 5009) to reauthorize wildlife habitat and conservation programs, and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7673) to prohibit the Secretary of Energy from prescribing or enforcing energy conservation standards for clothes washers that are not cost-effective or technologically feasible, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (S. 4199) to authorize additional district judges for the district courts and convert temporary judgeships. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 5009) to reauthorize wildlife habitat and conservation programs, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Armed Services or his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 118–52. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services or their respective designees. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion.
4.
The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in the Congressional Record not later than December 10, 2024, such material as he may deem explanatory of the Senate amendment and the motion specified in section 3 of this resolution.
Kevin F. McCumber,
Clerk.
