118 HRES 933 IH: Expressing opposition to New York’s Clean Slate Act.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-12-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 933
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 13, 2023
Mr. D'Esposito
(for himself,
Ms. Stefanik
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Ms. Malliotakis
,
Mr. LaLota
,
Mr. Garbarino
,
Mr. Williams of New York
,
Mr. Langworthy
, and
Mr. Molinaro
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing opposition to New York’s Clean Slate Act.
Whereas the Clean Slate Act was signed into law November 16, 2023, by New York Governor Kathy Hochul;
Whereas this legislation will automatically seal from public view the criminal records of eligible misdemeanors after 3 years and certain felonies after 8 years following the individual’s release from incarceration or the imposition of sentence as long as they do not have additional subsequent charges;
Whereas the Clean Slate Act will prohibit many New Yorkers from conducting a comprehensive background check on someone they want to hire to work in their home or at their business;
Whereas the Clean Slate Act will only empower criminals at the expense of New York State law abiding citizens;
Whereas, in 2022, New York City experienced a 22-percent increase in overall major crime compared with 2021;
Whereas one of the government’s most important responsibilities is keeping its citizens safe and upholding justice;
Whereas New York has a history of soft-on-crime laws such as cashless bail, eliminating the dangerousness standard, and other harmful policies;
Whereas all employers should be able to access information necessary to make informed hiring decisions for their businesses;
Whereas the New York Police Department already faces budget cuts and hiring freezes, making it even more difficult to combat crime in New York City; and
Whereas New York State should be doing everything in its power to tackle crime and prioritize the public safety of all residents: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
disapproves of the Clean Slate Act; and
(2)
urges New York State to prioritize policies that prevent crime, support law enforcement officers, and keep all New Yorkers safe.
