118 HRES 360 IH: Recognizing the role of loneliness and isolation in public health.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 360
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 5, 2023
Mr. Flood
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the role of loneliness and isolation in public health.
Whereas the United States faces increasing rates of loneliness and isolation, impacting the general population’s mental health and well-being for citizens of all ages;
Whereas the 2019 Cigna U.S. Loneliness Index data reports 61 percent of United States adults are considered lonely, a rise from 54 percent in 2018;
Whereas the 2018 Cigna U.S. Loneliness Index data reports 41 percent of adults age 66 and older report feeling lonely, and 79 percent of adults age 18 to 24 report feeling lonely;
Whereas the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine reports loneliness and isolation in older adults are strongly associated with greater incidences of morbidity, cognitive decline, depression, anxiety, a decreased quality of life, and an increased risk of early death from all causes;
Whereas in an effort to combat loneliness and isolation, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends raising awareness of the issue and continuing research into loneliness;
Whereas the Surgeon General, Vivek Murthy, declared an epidemic of loneliness and isolation on May 2, 2023; and
Whereas the Surgeon General released an advisory on the impacts of loneliness and isolation on public health outcomes in the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes Americans, of all ages, report feelings of loneliness or isolation;
(2)
recognizes the impact of loneliness and isolation on one’s health and well-being;
(3)
promotes the awareness of loneliness and isolation and its impacts; and
(4)
supports continued research into efforts for combating loneliness and isolation.
