118 HRES 1256 IH: Condemning the United Nations moment of silence for Ebrahim Raisolsadati as a blatant disregard of the United Nations Charter.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1256
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 23, 2024
Mrs. Miller of West Virginia
(for herself,
Mr. Reschenthaler
,
Mr. Huizenga
,
Mr. Biggs
,
Mr. Babin
,
Mr. Burchett
, and
Ms. Tenney
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Condemning the United Nations moment of silence for Ebrahim Raisolsadati as a blatant disregard of the United Nations Charter.
Whereas Ebrahim Raisolsadati (commonly known as
Ebrahim Raisi
) served as Iran’s 8th President from 2021 to 2024;
Whereas, as a ranking member of the Iranian regime, Raisolsadati played a role in the mass political executions in 1988 that took the lives of between 2,500 and 30,000 civilians;
Whereas Raisi later defended his actions in saying he was
proud of being a defender of human rights and of people's security and comfort as a prosecutor wherever I was
;
Whereas the actions of Raisolsadati during the 1988 attacks as one of the judges who oversaw the mass executions earned him the nickname the
Butcher of Tehran
;
Whereas, as President, Raisolsadati presided over the mass security crackdown that followed the protests of the death of Mahsa Amini, a woman detained over her allegedly loose headscarf, and that killed more than 500 people and saw over 22,000 detained;
Whereas human rights lawyers have described Raisolsadati as being
responsible for the incarceration, torture, rape and murder of tens of thousands of people over the last few decades
;
Whereas Raisolsadati’s Presidency was hallmarked by the brutal suppression, detention, and execution of ethnic and religious minorities and women;
Whereas, after the death of Raisolsadati and Foreign Minister of Iran Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, the United Nations Security Council held a moment of silence at the request of China, Russia, and Algeria;
Whereas the United Nations preamble reads that
We the People of the United Nations determined…to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small
; and
Whereas paragraph 3 of Article 1 of Chapter I of the United Nations Charter reads that
The Purpose of the United Nations are: To achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the egregious human rights violations orchestrated by the Iranian regime and President Ebrahim Raisolsadati;
(2)
finds that the United Nations Security Council holding a moment of silence for the death of Raisolsadati is inconsistent with the United Nation’s chartered values of reaffirming and encouraging faith in human rights; and
(3)
denounces the decision of United States Deputy Ambassador to the United Nations Robert Wood for participating in the moment of silence.
