118 HRES 405 IH: Impeaching Matthew M. Graves, United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the explosion of violent crime in the Nation’s capital.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 405
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 16, 2023
Ms. Greene of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Matthew M. Graves, United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the explosion of violent crime in the Nation’s capital.
That Matthew M. Graves, United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, is impeached for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the explosion of violent crime in the Nation’s capital, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Matthew M. Graves, United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for endangering, compromising, and undermining the justice system of the United States by facilitating the explosion of violent crime in the Nation’s capital.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that a United States Attorney, as a civil officer of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
.
In his conduct as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend, the Constitution of the United States, Matthew M. Graves continues to materially endanger the justice system of the United States and empower violent criminals to terrorize Washington, DC.
Article I
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, Matthew M. Graves has declined to prosecute approximately 67 percent of people arrested by police officers in 2022, almost doubling the declination rate within the last seven years.
Matthew M. Graves has failed to uphold his oath and has instead overseen a denigration of the principles of our justice system by allowing the District of Columbia to be on pace to set records for crime.
According to police data, crime is up 23 percent on U.S. Attorney Graves’s watch. Homicides are up 30 percent. Murders in Washington, DC, exceeded 200 in 2021 and 2022 for the first time since 2003.
Instead of preventing prosecuting these crimes, Graves’s office has hired more attorneys solely to prosecute more than 1,000 individuals who have been arrested for political protest or touring the U.S. Capitol. United States Attorney Graves has perversely and unconstitutionally sought lengthy pretrial detention for dozens these political opponents, including individuals not accused of committing any violence. In doing so, Graves is systematically criminalizing political dissent.
Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco admitted that the Department of Justice has pulled prosecutors from cases around the country in order to prosecute such cases in Washington, DC, instead of serious crime.
Matthew M. Graves has engaged in abuse of power by becoming a tool of the Biden regime’s pro-crime, anti-democracy agenda.
Article II
Matthew M. Graves, in his inability to enforce the law, has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with his duties as a civil officer of the United States.
Matthew M. Graves, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.
Matthew M. Graves, by such conduct, has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the justice system of the United States of America if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law.
Wherefore, Matthew M. Graves, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
