118 HRES 1344 IH: Finding that Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States, is in contempt of the House of Representatives for disobeying a certain subpoena.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-07-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1344
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 9, 2024
Mrs. Luna
(for herself,
Mr. Crenshaw
,
Mr. McCormick
,
Mr. Burchett
, and
Mr. Alford
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Finding that Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States, is in contempt of the House of Representatives for disobeying a certain subpoena.
Whereas, on February 27, 2024, Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States, was duly served with a subpoena to produce a narrow and specific set of materials possessed by the Department of Justice and related to Special Counsel Robert K. Hur’s investigation of President Joe Biden’s
willful
mishandling of classified documents to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives in Washington, DC;
Whereas Attorney General Garland has, in disobedience of such subpoena, failed to produce the set of materials; and
Whereas the set of materials possessed by the Department of Justice is material and necessary in order that the House of Representatives may properly execute the functions imposed on it and may obtain information necessary as a basis for such legislative and other action as the House of Representatives may deem necessary and proper: Now, therefore be it
That—
(1)
Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States, is found in contempt of the House of Representatives for disobeying the February 27, 2024, subpoena; and
(2)
the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall impose a fine, which may not be paid with appropriated funds, on Attorney General Garland of $10,000 per day, until such time as Attorney General Garland complies with the subpoena of the House of Representatives by turning over the audio tapes.
