118 HRES 214 IH: Supporting the goals and ideals of “Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 214
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 9, 2023
Mr. Burgess
(for himself,
Ms. Blunt Rochester
,
Mr. Murphy
, and
Mr. Tonko
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of
Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Awareness Month
.
Whereas deep vein thrombosis (referred to in this resolution as
DVT
) is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in the deep veins of the body, most commonly in the leg, although it can occur anywhere in the body, such as the veins in the arm, abdomen, or around the brain;
Whereas a potentially life-threatening complication of DVT is pulmonary embolism (in this resolution referred to as
PE
), where a blood clot breaks off, travels through the bloodstream, and lodges in the lung;
Whereas DVT/PE is a serious, but often preventable, medical condition;
Whereas DVT/PE occurs in an estimated 900,000 individuals in the United States each year;
Whereas DVT/PE kills an estimated 100,000 individuals in the United States each year, more than HIV, breast cancer, and motor vehicle accidents combined;
Whereas DVT/PE deaths are often preventable;
Whereas DVT/PE is the leading cause of preventable hospital death in the United States;
Whereas DVT/PE is a common complication in cancer patients and the leading cause of death in people with cancer after the cancer itself;
Whereas pregnancy increases risk of DVT/PE, and that risk remains elevated for up to 6 weeks after giving birth;
Whereas immobility, surgery, older age, a family history of clotting, and thrombophilia increase risk of DVT/PE;
Whereas DVT/PE contributes to an estimated $10,000,000,000 in incremental medical costs each year in the United States; and
Whereas the establishment of March as
Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Awareness Month
would raise awareness about this life-threatening but preventable condition: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Awareness Month
; and
(2)
recognizes the importance of raising awareness of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
