118 HRES 1280 IH: Commending the University of South Alabama on the occasion of its 60th anniversary and its years of service to the State of Alabama and the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1280
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 7, 2024
Mr. Carl
(for himself,
Mr. Moore of Alabama
,
Mr. Rogers of Alabama
,
Mr. Aderholt
,
Mr. Strong
,
Mr. Palmer
, and
Ms. Sewell
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Commending the University of South Alabama on the occasion of its 60th anniversary and its years of service to the State of Alabama and the United States.
Whereas the University of South Alabama was chartered by a Legislative Act on May 3, 1963, following the efforts of local leaders who saw a great need for a 4-year-degree-granting institution along the fast-growing Alabama Gulf Coast;
Whereas the University of South Alabama’s first classes were held on June 8, 1964, on a new campus in West Mobile, with 276 total students;
Whereas, in 1969, the Alabama Legislature passed a resolution establishing a new medical school and, in 1973, the University of South Alabama began providing medical education at the Frederick P. Whiddon College of Medicine;
Whereas, in 1970, the University of South Alabama’s adoption of Mobile General Hospital and the creation of its new medical school gave rise to what is today University of South Alabama Health (USA Health);
Whereas USA Health in Mobile, Alabama—
(1)
is the only academic health system along the upper Gulf Coast;
(2)
is home to USA Health Children’s & Women’s Hospital, which serves the area with the only pediatric emergency center, Level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, and Pediatric Intensive Care Unit;
(3)
is home to USA Health University Hospital, which serves the area with the only Level I trauma center, burn center, and compressive stroke center;
(4)
is home to USA Health Providence Hospital, which serves the area with a full-service, 349-bed hospital that provides 24/7 emergency care and a Level III trauma center;
(5)
is home to the USA Health Mitchell Cancer Institute, which serves the area as the only academic cancer treatment and research facility along the upper Gulf Coast, using continuous research and technological advancements to best treat patients; and
(6)
is home to the USA Health Physician Enterprise, the region’s largest multispecialty practice, providing patients with primary and specialty care, including many services unique in the community;
Whereas, from its first class of 276 students, the University of South Alabama has grown to host more than 13,500 students annually, participating in over 115 undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs through its 10 colleges and schools;
Whereas the University of South Alabama’s offerings include—
(1)
programs in medicine, nursing, and allied health with 1 of only 2 allopathic medical schools in the State;
(2)
an established College of Nursing;
(3)
a burgeoning School of Marine and Environmental Sciences adjacent to the Mobile-Tensaw Delta and the Gulf of Mexico;
(4)
a comprehensive College of Engineering; and
(5)
programs in business, computing, education, the sciences, and humanities;
Whereas the University of South Alabama is dedicated to supporting the academic success of student-athletes while striving for on-field success;
Whereas the University of South Alabama, a charter member of the Sun Belt Conference, is composed of 17 Division I men’s and women’s programs, including football, basketball, baseball, softball, soccer, volleyball, tennis, golf, cross country, and track and field; and
Whereas the University of South Alabama has distinguished itself by producing alumni who have excelled in various sectors, including research, medicine, business, education, engineering, the sciences, the arts, and athletics, among others: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the University of South Alabama on the occasion of its 60th anniversary and its years of service to the State of Alabama and the United States;
(2)
recognizes the University of South Alabama for its education, research, and health care service as the flagship of the Gulf Coast; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the President of the University of South Alabama, the Honorable Jo Bonner;
(B)
the Executive Vice President and Provost of the University of South Alabama, Dr. Andrea Kent;
(C)
the Dean of the Frederick P. Whiddon College of Medicine and Vice President for Medical Affairs at the University of South Alabama, Dr. John Marymont;
(D)
the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Associate Vice President for Medical Affairs at USA Health, Mr. Owen Bailey; and
(E)
the Director of Athletics of the University of South Alabama, Dr. Joel Erdmann.
