118 HRES 1247 IH: Recognizing the importance of “National Safe Boating Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1247
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 21, 2024
Mrs. Luna
(for herself,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Fry
,
Mr. Van Drew
,
Mr. Smith of New Jersey
, and
Mr. Davis of North Carolina
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the importance of
National Safe Boating Week
.
Whereas for over 100,000,000 Americans boating continues to be a popular recreational activity;
Whereas from coast to coast, and everywhere in between, people are taking to the water and enjoying time together boating, sailing, paddling, and fishing;
Whereas, during
National Safe Boating Week
, the U.S. Coast Guard, the Coast Guard Auxiliary and Federal, State, and local safe boating partners encourage all boaters to explore and enjoy America’s beautiful waters responsibly;
Whereas safe boating begins with preparation;
Whereas the Coast Guard estimates that human error accounts for most boating accidents and that life jackets could prevent nearly 83 percent of boating fatalities;
Whereas through basic boating safety procedures, carrying lifesaving emergency distress and communications equipment, wearing life jackets, attending safe boating courses, participating in free boat safety checks, and staying sober when navigating, we can help ensure boaters on America’s coastal, inland, and offshore waters stay safe throughout the season;
Whereas
National Safe Boating Week
is observed to bring attention to important life-saving tips for recreational boaters so that they can have a safer, more fun experience out on the water throughout the year;
Whereas, on average, 650 people die each year in boating-related accidents in the United States;
Whereas 75 percent of these are fatalities caused by drowning;
Whereas, in fiscal year 2022, the Department of Public Safety’s Boating Safety Section responded to a total of 38 distressed vessels and one capsized vessel;
Whereas, in fiscal year 2022, the Department of Public Safety’s Boating Section responded to a total of 4 overdue swimmers, fishermen, and divers, and 2 stranded swimmers;
Whereas, in fiscal year 2022, the Northern Mariana Islands had a total of 3 near-drowning cases and 1 drowning case resulting in death;
Whereas the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or poor judgment and not by the boat, equipment, or environmental factors; and
Whereas a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the importance of
National Safe Boating Week
;
(2)
supports the important procedures and trainings that have saved the lives of millions of boaters;
(3)
encourages Americans to explore America’s waters safely; and
(4)
calls on Federal, State, and local partners to continue to observe
National Safe Boating Week
with appropriate programs and activities.
