118 HRES 1319 IH: Impeaching Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1319
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 25, 2024
Mr. Mills
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article I: Abuse of Power
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the President
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In his conduct of the office of President of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., has abused the powers of the Presidency, in that:
Using the powers of his high office, President Biden solicited a
quid pro quo
with the foreign Government of Israel by withholding precision guided weapons shipments in order to try and extract military policy changes. President Biden sought to pressure the Government of Israel to take steps by conditioning official United States Government acts of significant value to Israel. After initial reports surfaced, President Biden confirmed them and openly stated
I made it clear that if they go into Rafah—they haven’t gone in Rafah yet—if they go into Rafah, I’m not supplying the weapons that have been used historically to deal with Rafah, to deal with the cities – that deal with that problem.
.
President Biden engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Biden used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the national security of the United States and undermined the integrity of the United States democratic process. He thus ignored and injured the interests of the Nation.
Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
Article II: Failure to Faithfully Execute Laws
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the President
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In his conduct of the office of President of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., has abused the powers of the Presidency, in that:
President Biden has allowed aliens to enter the United States in violation of the immigration laws, thwarted the will of Congress as set forth in duly enacted law by not completing the southern border wall, and deprived border agents of the sufficient manpower and resources needed to secure the border and its physical infrastructure.
His conduct has included the following:
(1)
President Biden’s Department of Homeland Security (hereinafter referred to as
DHS
) has willfully refused to maintain operational control of the border as required by the Secure Fence Act of 2006. His actions have directly led to an increase in illegal aliens and illegal narcotics, including deadly fentanyl, entering the United States.
(2)
President Biden’s administration has willfully violated the Immigration and Nationality Act by releasing illegal aliens into the interior of the United States. The Act clearly requires DHS to detain aliens seeking admission to the United States while they are processed. By law, DHS does not have the option to simply release aliens into the interior of the United States.
(3)
President Biden has reinstituted the catch and release policies of the Obama administration and has released aliens into the interior of the United States without issuing the aliens notices to appear.
(4)
Under President Biden’s administration, the Department of Homeland Security terminated the Migrant Protection Protocols, which provided a pathway to process claims in compliance with the law, and served as a deterrent to illegal immigration and aliens making fraudulent asylum claims.
(5)
As a result of President Biden’s policies, Customs and Border Patrol (hereinafter referred to as
CBP
) encounters, and those evading capture, have increased by millions since he became President.
(6)
In addition to illegal aliens, President Biden’s policies have led to a significant increase in illegal drug smuggling across the southern border. Fentanyl now kills hundreds of Americans every day.
President Biden, by these actions, has made the border less secure and encouraged aliens to enter the United States illegally instead of taking actions to maintain operational control of the border. His actions have thwarted the will of Congress as set forth in duly enacted law and the core tenets of the Constitution.
President Biden engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Biden used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the national security of the United States and undermined the integrity of the United States democratic process. He thus ignored and injured the interests of the Nation.
Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
Article III: Separation of Powers
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the President
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In his conduct of the office of President of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., has abused the powers of the Presidency, in that:
The Constitution establishes three separate but equal branches of government: the legislative branch to make law, the executive branch to enforce these laws, and the judicial branch for judicial review of these laws and their enforcement. President Biden attempted to unilaterally rewrite Federal statute and cancel hundreds of billions of dollars of student loans for tens of millions of borrowers without congressional approval. President Biden himself had previously admitted it was Congress that would need to act, stating
I don’t think I have the authority
in response to questioning over student loan forgiveness. President Biden later contradicted himself by directing his Secretary of Education to deceptively reinterpret congressional statute. These actions were unsupported in Congress and ultimately overturned by the Supreme Court, as they explained in Biden v. Nebraska:
Shortly after the September 11 terrorist attacks, Congress became concerned that borrowers affected by the crisis, particularly those who served in the military, would need additional assistance. As a result, it enacted the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of 2001. That law provided the Secretary of Education, for a limited period of time, with
specific waiver authority to respond to conditions in the national emergency
caused by the September 11 attacks (115 Stat. 2386). Rather than allow this grant of authority to expire by its terms at the end of September 2003, Congress passed the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of 2003 (HEROES Act) (117 Stat. 904). That Act extended the coverage of the 2001 statute to include any war or national emergency, not just the September 11 attacks. By its terms, the Secretary
may waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision applicable to the student financial assistance programs under title IV of the [Education Act] as the Secretary deems necessary in connection with a war or other military operation or national emergency
.
Under the Government’s reading of the HEROES Act, the Secretary would enjoy virtually unlimited power to rewrite the Education Act. The economic and political significance of the Secretary’s action is staggering by any measure. A budget model issued by the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania estimates that the program will cost taxpayers
between $469 billion and $519 billion
, depending on the total number of borrowers ultimately covered. It amounts to nearly one-third of the Government’s $1.7 trillion in annual discretionary spending. The sharp debates generated by the Secretary’s extraordinary program stand in stark contrast to the unanimity with which Congress passed the HEROES Act. A decision of such magnitude and consequence on a matter of earnest and profound debate across the country must rest with Congress itself, or an agency acting pursuant to a clear delegation from that representative body.
As then-Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi explained:
People think that the President of the United States has the power for debt forgiveness. He does not. He can postpone. He can delay. But he does not have that power. That has to be an act of Congress.
. Press Conference, Office of the Speaker of the House (July 28, 2021).
The Supreme Court has made it clear that unilateral debt cancellation must have congressional input. President Biden, once again, has ignored the Supreme Court. The new plan that was rolled out in a statement by the White House on April 8, 2024, would forgive over 30 million students and would cost tens of billions of dollars, which will lead to higher inflation and less money in Americans’ pocketbooks. Additionally, it violates the Fiscal Responsibility Act pay as you go requirement.
President Biden engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Biden used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that undermined the integrity of the United States democratic process. He thus ignored and injured the interests of the Nation.
Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
