118 HRES 201 IH: Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit a Member who is indicted for an offense involving financial or campaign finance fraud from receiving compensation for biographies, media appearances, or expressive or creative works, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 201
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 7, 2023
Mr. D'Esposito
(for himself,
Mr. Molinaro
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Mr. LaLota
,
Mr. Langworthy
, and
Mr. Williams of New York
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit a Member who is indicted for an offense involving financial or campaign finance fraud from receiving compensation for biographies, media appearances, or expressive or creative works, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
No Fame for Fraud Resolution
.
2.
Prohibiting Members indicted for financial or campaign finance offenses from receiving compensation for biographies, media appearances, or expressive or creative works
Rule XXV of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
9.
(a)
A Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who is indicted for an offense described in paragraph (b) may not receive compensation, or enter into an agreement to receive compensation, for a biography, media appearance, or an expressive or creative work.
(b)
An offense described in this paragraph is—
(1)
any offense described in subparagraph (B) of section 8332(o)(2) of title 5, United States Code, without regard to whether the offense is described in subparagraph (A) of such section; or
(2)
any offense which is based on a violation of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.
)
.
