118 HRES 1219 IH: Condemning the Biden Administration’s decision to pause certain arms transfers to Israel.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1219
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 10, 2024
Mr. Miller of Ohio
(for himself and
Mr. McCaul
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Condemning the Biden Administration’s decision to pause certain arms transfers to Israel.
Whereas, on October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists launched a massive, unprovoked war on Israel, killing over 1,200 innocent people and taking over 240 hostages, including American citizens;
Whereas since October 7, Israel has faced attacks by Iran and its proxies including Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis, which have required significant military responses;
Whereas under the terms of a 2016 Memorandum of Understanding, the United States provides Israel with $3.8 billion per year in security assistance and missile defense funding from fiscal years 2019 through 2028, which is subject to the approval of Congress;
Whereas thus far in fiscal year 2024, Congress has enacted regular and supplemental legislation appropriating $12.5 billion in security assistance and missile defense for Israel without any additional conditions;
Whereas Congress plays a vital role in oversight and approval of direct commercial sales and foreign military sales to security partners around the world, including Israel;
Whereas, in May 2024, it was reported that President Biden ordered a pause on certain defense articles ready for imminent delivery to Israel, without having consulted with Congress; and
Whereas, on May 8, 2024, President Biden stated regarding Israel,
We’re not going to supply the weapons and artillery shells.
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the Biden Administration’s decision to pause certain arms transfers to Israel as Israel faces unprecedented threats from Iran and its proxies including Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis;
(2)
calls on the Biden Administration to allow all previously approved arms transfers to Israel to proceed quickly to ensure that Israel can defend itself and defeat threats from Iran and its proxies including Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis;
(3)
calls on the Biden Administration to utilize all congressionally appropriated funds for security assistance for Israel as Congress intended;
(4)
stands with Israel as it defends itself against the barbaric war launched by Hamas and other terrorists; and
(5)
reaffirms Israel’s right to self-defense.
