118 HRES 118 IH: Maintaining Medicare.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 118
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 9, 2023
Ms. Van Duyne
(for herself,
Mr. Burgess
,
Mr. Wittman
,
Mrs. Miller of West Virginia
,
Mr. Moolenaar
,
Ms. Greene of Georgia
,
Mr. Mills
,
Mrs. Lesko
,
Mr. McCormick
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Mr. Donalds
, and
Mr. Jackson of Texas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and Means
, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Maintaining Medicare.
Whereas, created in 1965, Medicare was established to provide Government health insurance to senior citizens;
Whereas now roughly 65,200,000 individuals utilize Medicare to provide health care coverage;
Whereas under President Biden, health care prices have risen nearly 30 percent in 2022 where seniors and everyday Americans saw the largest increase on record;
Whereas, due in part to the increased cost of living caused by President Biden’s mismanagement of the economy, the standard Medicare beneficiary saw an increase of $21.60 a month for their 2022 premiums;
Whereas, during the 117th Congress, funds meant for Medicare were reallocated to pay for partisan policies outside of the Medicare program in the Inflation Reduction Act;
Whereas Democrats cut over $289,000,000 out of Medicare to give insurance companies handouts to boost Obamacare and finance Democrats’ pet green energy projects instead of strengthening Medicare for future generations; and
Whereas President Biden has accused House Republicans of threatening to cut Medicare: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the House of Representatives affirms current retirees and those nearing retirement expect certain Medicare commitments to be made, as Medicare has been one of the vital pillars for senior citizens to access health care; and
(2)
it is the sense of the House of Representatives that its commitment to the United States is to save and strengthen Medicare and no longer use Medicare as a slush fund to finance Democrats’ partisan policy agenda.
