118 HRES 78 EH: Providing for a certain total number of members on certain select committees and subcommittees, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-01-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 78
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
January 31, 2023
RESOLUTION
Providing for a certain total number of members on certain select committees and subcommittees, and for other purposes.
1.
Total number of members of certain select committees and subcommittees
(a)
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
Clause 11(a)(1) of rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by striking
not more than 22 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner, of whom not more than 13 may be from the same party
and inserting
not more than 25 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner, of whom not more than 14 may be from the same party
.
(b)
Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party
Section 1(a)(2)(A) of House Resolution 11, as agreed to January 10, 2023, is amended by striking
composed of not more than 16 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, not more than 7 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the minority leader
and inserting
composed of not more than 24 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, not more than 11 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the minority leader
.
(c)
Select Subcommittee on the Weaponization of the Federal Government
Section 1(a)(2)(A) of House Resolution 12, as agreed to January 10, 2023, is amended by striking
together with not more than 13 other Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, of whom not more than 5 shall be appointed in consultation with the minority leader
and inserting
together with not more than 12 other Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, of whom not more than 9 shall be appointed in consultation with the minority leader
.
(d)
Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic
Section 4(a)(1)(B)(i) of House Resolution 5, as agreed to January 9, 2023, is amended by striking
not more than 12 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, of whom not more than 5 shall be appointed in consultation with the Minority Leader
and inserting
not more than 16 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the Speaker, of whom not more than 7 shall be appointed in consultation with the Minority Leader
.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
