118 HRES 842 IH: Commending the people of Ecuador on holding successful elections, and expressing the sense of Congress that the United States must strengthen its cooperation with the Government of Ecuador.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 842
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 2, 2023
Mrs. Miller of West Virginia
(for herself and
Ms. Sewell
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Commending the people of Ecuador on holding successful elections, and expressing the sense of Congress that the United States must strengthen its cooperation with the Government of Ecuador.
Whereas, on October 15, 2023, the people of Ecuador elected Daniel Noboa as the youngest President in Ecuador’s history;
Whereas President-elect Noboa’s campaign centered on promoting democracy, free enterprise, and enhancing security through combating drug-trafficking, rampant crime, and unemployment in Ecuador;
Whereas the United States-Ecuador trade relation totaled $18,300,000,000 in goods and U.S. Foreign Direct Investment in Ecuador (stock) was $1,000,000,000 in 2022;
Whereas the expired Andean Tariff Preference Act and subsequent Andean Tariff Preferences and Drug Eradication Act expanded trade relations between the two countries, generated new employment in key exports sector in Ecuador, and helped increased cooperation on combating illicit drug trafficking in that country;
Whereas, on August 12, 2021, the United States and Ecuador marked the entry into force of the Protocol to the Trade and Investment Council Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador Relating to Trade Rules and Transparency, recognizing the steps Ecuador has taken to decrease unnecessary regulatory burden and create a more transparent and predictable legal framework for foreign direct investment in recent years;
Whereas, on December 15, 2022, Congress approved the United-States Ecuador Partnership Act of 2022, as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, calling for inter alia promoting inclusive economic growth, strengthening democratic institutions, and increasing capabilities to address negative foreign influence; and
Whereas Ecuador and the United States have a shared democratic tradition and are cooperating to safeguard this tradition through the Alliance for the Advancement of Democracy with special focus on supply chain integrity: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the people of Ecuador for their commitment to democracy, civil liberties, and economic prosperity; and
(2)
urges the President of the United States to build on the strong alliance between the United States and Ecuador to deepen bilateral ties and strengthen democracy, security, trade, rule of law, and broad-based economic well-being in the hemisphere.
