118 HRES 83 EH: Providing for consideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 9) denouncing the horrors of socialism, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 76) removing a certain Member from a certain standing committee of the House.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 83
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
February 1, 2023
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 9) denouncing the horrors of socialism, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 76) removing a certain Member from a certain standing committee of the House.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 9) denouncing the horrors of socialism. All points of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution are waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or their respective designees.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 76) removing a certain Member from a certain standing committee of the House. The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ethics or their respective designees.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
