118 HRES 188 IH: Condemning Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 188
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 28, 2023
Mr. Waltz
(for himself,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mrs. Boebert
,
Mr. Zinke
,
Mr. Steube
,
Mr. Higgins of Louisiana
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Posey
,
Mr. Collins
, and
Mr. Santos
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Condemning Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg.
Whereas the Department of Transportation was established by an Act of Congress on October 15, 1966;
Whereas Pete Buttigieg serves as the 19th Secretary of Transportation under President Biden, having been sworn in on February 3, 2021;
Whereas the mission of the Department of Transportation to deliver the world’s leading transportation system, serving the American people and economy through safe, efficient, sustainable, and equitable movements of people and goods;
Whereas, during Secretary Pete Buttigieg tenure, the Department of Transportation failed to mitigate or effectively respond to multiple national crises;
Whereas Secretary Pete Buttigieg’s ineptitude has jeopardized the safety and prosperity of the American people;
Whereas, in 2021 and 2022, Secretary Buttigieg was absent during a historical supply chain crisis when United States ports faced a record backlog of ships stranded off of United States coasts;
Whereas, in December 2022, under Secretary Buttigieg’s watch, more than 15,000 flights were canceled, the worst and most costly single airline operational disruption in the history of United States aviation;
Whereas Secretary Buttigieg, in 2022, neglected his duties and left the country to vacation in Portuguese wine country amidst ongoing negotiations of an impending railroad labor strike, leaving Congress to act in order to prevent the impending rail workers strike;
Whereas, on January 11, 2023, due to a preventable malfunction in the Notice to Air Mission’s System, the Federal Aviation Administration was forced to impose the largest nationwide ground stop since the attacks of September 11, 2001;
Whereas Secretary Buttigieg failed to immediately respond to the major economic, environmental, humanitarian disaster that occurred on February 3, 2023, when a train derailed in East Palestine, Ohio, spilling toxic chemicals, forcing residents to evacuate, and the surrounding areas devastated; and
Whereas Secretary Buttigieg has repeatedly demonstrated a gross level of incompetence and apathy in his role as Secretary of Transportation: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
Secretary Pete Buttigieg has failed to keep the American people safe in his duties as Secretary of Transportation;
(2)
Secretary Pete Buttigieg has failed to ensure goods flow efficiently through the United States economy;
(3)
Secretary Pete Buttigieg has lost the confidence of the American people; and
(4)
Secretary Pete Buttigieg should resign.
