118 HRES 409 IH: Condemning the acts of terrorism committed by Iranian military proxies, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, against the people of the State of Israel.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 409
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 17, 2023
Mr. Gimenez
(for himself,
Mr. Webster of Florida
,
Mr. Donalds
,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Ms. Mace
,
Mr. Bost
,
Mr. Nunn of Iowa
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Mr. Babin
,
Mr. Smith of New Jersey
,
Mr. Dunn of Florida
,
Mr. Reschenthaler
, and
Mr. Guest
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Condemning the acts of terrorism committed by Iranian military proxies, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, against the people of the State of Israel.
Whereas the democratic, Jewish State of Israel is a key ally and a strategic partner of the United States;
Whereas it remains a standing policy of the United States to support Israel’s security efforts;
Whereas American policy has long sought to bring peace to the Middle East and recognize that both the Israeli and Palestinian people should be able to live in safe and sovereign states, free from fear and violence, with mutual recognition; and
Whereas Hamas began launching rockets into the Israeli capital of Jerusalem and surrounding areas belonging to the Jewish people of Israel: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the acts of terrorism committed by Iranian military proxies, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, against the people of the State of Israel;
(2)
recognizes Jerusalem as the legitimate capital city of the State of Israel;
(3)
supports Israel’s efforts of self-determination and collective security against external forces; and
(4)
reaffirms support for policies and initiatives combatting anti-Semitic behavior around the world.
