118 HRES 64 IH: Preventing Extreme Negligence with Classified Information Licenses Resolution
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-01-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 64
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 26, 2023
Mr. Gaetz
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Representative Adam Schiff should not have access to classified information, and for other purposes.
Whereas Representative Adam Schiff served as the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence from January 3rd, 2019, to January 3rd, 2023, and as the ranking minority member from January 3rd, 2015, to January 3rd, 2019;
Whereas, in December 2017, Representative Schiff falsely claimed “the Russians offered help, the campaign accepted help, the Russians gave help, and the president made full use of that help” when referring to unsubstantiated claims of collusion between former President Donald J. Trump and Russia during the 2016 election;
Whereas, in January 2019, Representative Schiff claimed there was
clear evidence on the issue of collusion
between the Trump campaign and Russia;
Whereas on March 2019 every Republican Member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence signed a letter stating that they had no confidence in Representative Schiff as Chairman;
Whereas the principal conclusions of the Mueller Report determined there was no criminal collusion between the Trump Campaign and Russia;
Whereas, in November 2020, Representative Schiff contacted Twitter, asking the tech giant to take action against alleged harassers and spreaders of misinformation, including the removal of content created by State Department staffers such as quotes, retweets, and reactions to content that challenged Schiff’s baseless claims of Russian collusion within the Trump campaign;
Whereas, in November 2020, Representative Schiff's office requested that Twitter
stop the spread of future misinformation on Twitter
regarding Committee staff and reduce the visibility of any content he disagreed with;
Whereas Representative Schiff has proven himself untrustworthy by advancing falsities about former President of the United States Donald J. Trump, as relating to unfounded allegations of collusion with the Russian Federation and attempting to cover his abuse of discretions with legislation; and
Whereas Representative Schiff can no longer be trusted by his colleagues in Congress or the American people: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Preventing Extreme Negligence with Classified Information Licenses Resolution
or the
PENCIL Resolution
.
2.
Sense of House
It is the sense of the House of Representatives that—
(1)
Representative Adam Schiff should not have access to classified information;
(2)
Representative Adam Schiff should be investigated by the Committee on Ethics for potential collusion with rogue elements of the Department of Defense in an attempt to tarnish the reputation of former President Donald J. Trump; and
(3)
any comments made by Representative Adam Schiff during any proceeding of Congress regarding Russian collusion and the Trump campaign be officially struck from the record.
