118 HRES 731 IH: Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to modify the period before the date of any primary election or general election during which a mass mailing is not frankable by a Member of the House who is a candidate in such election, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 731
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 27, 2023
Mr. Carey
(for himself and
Mr. Morelle
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to modify the period before the date of any primary election or general election during which a mass mailing is not frankable by a Member of the House who is a candidate in such election, and for other purposes.
1.
Limitations on the use of the frank before a primary or general election
(a)
In general
Clause 8 of rule XXIV of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by striking
less than 90 days before the date of a primary or general election (whether regular, special, or runoff) in which such individual is a candidate for public office
and inserting
on a date during the period described in section 3210(a)(6)(A) of such title
.
(b)
House Communications Standards Commission regulations and guidance
Not later than 30 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution—
(1)
the House Communications Standards Commission shall update any relevant regulation or guidance to reflect the amendment made by subsection (a); and
(2)
the Committee on House Administration shall make publicly available on the website of the Committee any such regulation or guidance updated under paragraph (1).
2.
Clarification with respect to jurisdiction of Committee on House Administration
Clause 1(k)(7) of rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by striking
Franking Commission
and inserting
House Communications Standards Commission
.
