118 HRES 947 EH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 788) to limit donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the United States is a party, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 98) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Labor Relations Board relating to “Standard for Determining Joint Employer Status”; and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 38) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal Highway Administration relating to “Waiver of Buy America Requirements for Electric Vehicle Chargers”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-01-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 947
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
January 11, 2024
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 788) to limit donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the United States is a party, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 98) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Labor Relations Board relating to
Standard for Determining Joint Employer Status
; and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 38) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal Highway Administration relating to
Waiver of Buy America Requirements for Electric Vehicle Chargers
.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 788) to limit donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the United States is a party, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 118–18 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the Member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 98) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Labor Relations Board relating to ‘‘Standard for Determining Joint Employer Status’’. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 38) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal Highway Administration relating to ‘‘Waiver of Buy America Requirements for Electric Vehicle Chargers’’. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
