118 HRES 127 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States should support the safe and responsible development of its energy resources via drilling, in an effort to maintain a robust energy supply chain which promotes national security, safeguards against energy scarcity, and reduces energy poverty for all Americans.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 127
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 14, 2023
Mr. Moore of Alabama
(for himself,
Mr. Bost
,
Mr. Donalds
,
Mr. Newhouse
, and
Mr. Steube
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and the Workforce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States should support the safe and responsible development of its energy resources via drilling, in an effort to maintain a robust energy supply chain which promotes national security, safeguards against energy scarcity, and reduces energy poverty for all Americans.
Whereas it is in the national security interests of the United States to maintain a strong domestic energy supply;
Whereas the timely delivery of affordable energy domestically and internationally requires an advanced and robust domestic energy supply;
Whereas energy workers and businesses require clear and supportive Federal policy to adequately maintain and develop the domestic energy supply chain to meet growing energy needs;
Whereas recent technological advances in energy resource exploration, drilling, completion, and production have led to unprecedented levels of efficiency and emissions reductions; and
Whereas increased production and use of American natural gas have helped the United States reduce its greenhouse gas emissions: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States should support the safe and responsible development of its energy resources via drilling, including by—
(1)
repealing administrative precedent that limits the exploration, drilling, and production of domestic natural resources on Federal lands, both onshore and offshore;
(2)
clearly defining the relationship drilling has to future production and delivery of energy resources; and
(3)
incentivizing workforce development in the domestic energy industry of the United States.
