118 HRES 795 IH: Expressing support for the proclamation of a “National Cybersecurity Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 795
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 18, 2023
Mr. Garbarino
(for himself,
Mr. Swalwell
,
Ms. Lee of Florida
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Mr. D'Esposito
,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
,
Mr. Luttrell
,
Mr. Gimenez
,
Ms. Blunt Rochester
,
Mr. Menendez
,
Ms. Jackson Lee
, and
Mr. Ezell
) submitted the following resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security
, and in addition to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the proclamation of a
National Cybersecurity Awareness Month
.
Whereas the President and Congress have declared October to be Cybersecurity Awareness Month every year since 2004, encouraging and supporting individuals to protect themselves online as cyber threats become more complex;
Whereas the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the National Cybersecurity Alliance (NCA) collaborate with government and private sector partners to launch a monthlong campaign to raise cybersecurity awareness nationally and internationally;
Whereas CISA and the NCA will promote four key cybersecurity behaviors throughout October, including—
(1)
creating strong passwords and use a password manager;
(2)
enabling multifactor authentication;
(3)
updating user software; and
(4)
recognizing and reporting phishing attempts;
Whereas these efforts aim to support CISA’s year-round efforts to advance American cyber literacy, including tailored cybersecurity awareness toolkits for students, parents, educators, young professionals, older Americans, government, industry, small business, and law enforcement personnel; and
Whereas it is of interest to national security that the United States continues to support individuals and government and private sector entities of all sizes to enhance cybersecurity awareness nationwide: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the proclamation of a
National Cybersecurity Awareness Month
;
(2)
invites individuals and organizations in the United States to—
(A)
recognize the importance of cybersecurity awareness; and
(B)
support the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security, as well as other Federal, State, and local educational entities, to enhance visibility of cybersecurity resources; and
(3)
commits to—
(A)
raising awareness regarding cybersecurity education; and
(B)
taking appropriate legislative action in support of CISA’s efforts to enhance cybersecurity awareness for public and private entities throughout the United States.
