118 HRES 96 IH: Transparency in Federal Spending Resolution
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 96
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 6, 2023
Mr. Mooney
(for himself,
Mr. Perry
,
Mr. Sessions
,
Mr. Norman
, and
Mr. Buck
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of certain legislation that authorizes or makes appropriations unless such legislation includes a table that details the amount of appropriations authorized or appropriated for each program and an estimate of the costs (if any) of servicing the public debt which would be incurred in carrying out the measure, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Transparency in Federal Spending Resolution
.
2.
Prohibiting consideration of certain legislation with respect to appropriations
Rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
13.
(a)
It shall not be in order to consider a bill, resolution, or conference report, or an amendment thereto, that authorizes the appropriation of funds or makes appropriations for one or more programs unless the measure includes a table in machine readable format at the end of the measure that details—
(1)
the amount of funds authorized or appropriated for each such program;
(2)
the amount of funds authorized or appropriated with respect to each fiscal year for each such program; and
(3)
an estimate of the costs (if any) of servicing the public debt which would be incurred in carrying out each such program.
(b)
It shall not be in order to consider a rule or order that waives the application of this clause.
(c)
For the purposes of this clause, the term
program
has the meaning given such term in section 1122(a) of title 31, United States Code.
.
