118 HRES 1030 IH: Calling on Vice President Kamala Harris to convene and mobilize the principal officers of the executive departments of the Cabinet to activate section 4 of the 25th Amendment to declare President Joseph R. Biden incapable of executing the duties of his office and to immediately exercise powers as Acting President.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1030
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 26, 2024
Mr. Buck
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Calling on Vice President Kamala Harris to convene and mobilize the principal officers of the executive departments of the Cabinet to activate section 4 of the 25th Amendment to declare President Joseph R. Biden incapable of executing the duties of his office and to immediately exercise powers as Acting President.
Whereas President Joseph R. Biden is the oldest sitting President in United States history at 81 years old;
Whereas President Joseph R. Biden has been televised wandering aimlessly at events, including an event with the King of Jordan at the White House in February 2024, an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit event in November 2023, and a Global Fund conference in September 2022;
Whereas President Joseph R. Biden frequently speaks publicly in an incoherent and indiscernible manner, often with the aid of a teleprompter, including speeches he gave at a brewery in Wisconsin in January 2024, a speech in Vietnam in September 2023, and a Presidential townhall with CNN in July 2021;
Whereas President Joseph R. Biden has repeatedly fallen while walking up stairs, including the stairs to Air Force One in March 2021, May 2022, February 2023, and February 2024;
Whereas, on February 5, 2024, Special Counsel Robert Hur issued a report finding that President Joseph R. Biden knowingly possessed classified material in his basement and other unsecured locations, but declined to recommend prosecuting President Biden because a jury may find that he is a
sympathetic, well-meaning, elderly man with a poor memory
;
Whereas the Hur report described President Biden’s recorded conversations with his ghost writer Mark Zwonitzer from 2017 as
often painfully slow, with Mr. Biden struggling to remember events and straining at times to read and relay his own notebook entries
;
Whereas the Hur report stated that President Joseph R. Biden forgot on the first day of his Special Counsel interview when his term as Vice President ended and forgot on the second day of the interview when his term as Vice President began;
Whereas, on February 4, 2024, President Joseph R. Biden confused speaking to French President Emmanuel Macron with former French President Francois Mitterrand who left office in 1995 and died in 1996;
Whereas, on February 6, 2024, during a White House press conference, President Joseph R. Biden could not recall the name of the terrorist group that attacked Israel on October 7, 2023;
Whereas, on February 7, 2024, President Joseph R. Biden confused speaking to former German Chancellor Angela Merkel with former Chancellor Helmut Kohl who left office in 1998 and died in 2017;
Whereas, on February 8, 2024, during a White House press conference, President Joseph R. Biden reassured reporters that his memory was fine and then referred to Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi as the
president of Mexico
;
Whereas, on February 22, 2024, President Joseph R. Biden met with Yulia Navalnaya, the widow of the recently deceased Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, and minutes after their meeting, President Biden told reporters that it was an honor for him to meet
Yolanda
;
Whereas, pursuant to article II, section 2 of the Constitution, President Joseph R. Biden serves as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and at all times has access to the
nuclear football
that enables the President to transmit orders to our military leaders to launch a nuclear strike against a foreign adversary in defense of the United States; and
Whereas President Biden represents the interests of the United States before hostile foreign leaders and is authorized to respond to endless domestic and international emergencies, all of which necessitate a leader who is of sound mind: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives calls upon Vice President Kamala Harris—
(1)
to immediately use her powers under section 4 of the 25th Amendment to convene and mobilize the principal officers of the executive departments in the Cabinet to declare what is obvious to a horrified Nation: That the President is unable to successfully discharge the duties and powers of his office; and
(2)
to transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate notice that she will immediately assume the powers and duties of the office as Acting President.
