118 HRES 236 IH: FBI Washington Field Office House Arrest Act
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 236
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 21, 2023
Mr. Gaetz
(for himself,
Mr. Gosar
,
Mr. Biggs
,
Ms. Greene of Georgia
,
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
,
Ms. Hageman
, and
Mr. Mills
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
, and in addition to the Committees on
Transportation and Infrastructure
, and
the Judiciary
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress that the proposed purchase of a new, suburban headquarters for the Federal Bureau of Investigation outside of the District of Columbia, should be quashed.
Whereas the Federal Bureau of Investigation is under investigation pursuant to Congress’ oversight authority;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been weaponized against the American people, deviating from its core law enforcement mission, and has begun targeting Americans in a politicized manner;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has attempted to pressure other field offices for no good law enforcement reason, but to advance a political agenda;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has suppressed credible investigative leads into criminal conduct and, over objection of Bureau field offices, initiated investigations into American citizens for exercising their First Amendment rights;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has attempted to entrap Members of the Senate by holding false classified briefings;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has colluded with private sector companies during elections to censor factual information harmful to preferred political candidates;
Whereas the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has targeted parents critical of school board decisions;
Whereas constructing a new headquarters for the Federal Bureau of Investigation at this time would distract from critical oversight of this dangerous politicization;
Whereas it is entirely inappropriate for a domestic law enforcement agency that employs 2.3 percent of the manpower of the United States military to receive a headquarters larger than the Pentagon;
Whereas building a new headquarters would condone, reinforce, and enable the Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s nefarious behavior; and
Whereas there is credible evidence before Congress to support all of the foregoing: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
FBI Washington Field Office House Arrest Act
.
2.
Sense of the House of Representatives
No money should be appropriated for the General Services Administration or the Federal Bureau of Investigation to either plan to, or acquire property for, a new, consolidated headquarters outside the District of Columbia.
