118 HRES 383 RH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2) to secure the borders of the United States, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1163) to provide incentives for States to recover fraudulently paid Federal and State unemployment compensation, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
House Calendar No. 16
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 383
[Report No. 118–51]
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 10, 2023
Mr. Roy
, from the Committee on Rules
, reported the following resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2) to secure the borders of the United States, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1163) to provide incentives for States to recover fraudulently paid Federal and State unemployment compensation, and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2) to secure the borders of the United States, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) five hours of debate, with two hours equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Homeland Security or their respective designees, two hours equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees, and one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1163) to provide incentives for States to recover fraudulently paid Federal and State unemployment compensation, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
May 10, 2023
Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
