118 HRES 394 IH: Expressing support for the 60th anniversary of the Polaris Sales Agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 394
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 11, 2023
Mr. Lamborn
(for himself and
Mr. Moulton
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the 60th anniversary of the Polaris Sales Agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Whereas President Kennedy and Prime Minister MacMillan met in Nassau, the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, and issued a
Statement on Nuclear Defense Systems
on December 21, 1962, agreeing that the United States will make available on a continuing basis Polaris missiles for British submarines;
Whereas the Secretary of State Dean Rusk and British Ambassador to the United States David Ormsby-Gore signed the Polaris Sales Agreement on April 6, 1963, in Washington, DC, reaffirming the
Statement on Nuclear Defense Systems
and agreeing that the Government of the United States shall provide and the Government of the United Kingdom shall purchase from the Government of the United States Polaris missiles (less warheads), equipment, and supporting services;
Whereas the H.M.S. Resolution launched the first United Kingdom’s Polaris missile on February 15, 1968, and in 1969, commenced the first strategic deterrent patrol for the United Kingdom, beginning a Continuous At-Sea Deterrent for the United Kingdom that remains unbroken to this day;
Whereas the Polaris Sales Agreement was amended for the UGM–133 Trident II (D5) strategic weapon system on October 19, 1982, in Washington, DC, through an exchange of notes between the Secretary of State Jonathan Howe and the British Ambassador to the United States Oliver Wright; and
Whereas the United States and the United Kingdom agreed to continue cooperation under the auspices of the Polaris Sales Agreement, to design a common missile compartment for both nations follow-on ballistic missile submarines through an exchange of letters in 2008 between the Secretary of Defense the Honorable Robert Oates and the United Kingdom Secretary of State for Defence the Right Honorable Desmond Browne: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
marks the 60th anniversary of the Polaris Sales Agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
(2)
congratulates the Royal Navy for steadfastly maintaining a Continuous At-Sea Deterrent;
(3)
recognizes the important contribution of the United Kingdom deterrent to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(4)
reaffirms the United Kingdom is a valued and special ally; and
(5)
looks forward to continuing and strengthening our shared commitment to sustain our submarine-based strategic deterrents well into the future.
