118 HRES 670 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that all 50 States should include the events of the September 11th terrorist attacks in the curriculum of elementary and secondary schools so that people in the United States may never forget that fateful day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 670
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 8, 2023
Mr. Garbarino
(for himself,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Ms. Malliotakis
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Mr. D'Esposito
,
Mr. LaLota
,
Mr. Langworthy
, and
Ms. Tenney
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that all 50 States should include the events of the September 11th terrorist attacks in the curriculum of elementary and secondary schools so that people in the United States may never forget that fateful day.
Whereas September 11, 2001, was the deadliest terrorist attack on American soil in United States history, claiming 2,977 lives in the span of only a few short hours, and countless others due to injury and illness in the following decades;
Whereas, on the morning of September 11, 2001, firefighters, emergency medical personnel, and police officers serving in the five boroughs of New York City bravely rushed into the World Trade Center to rescue the thousands of civilians who had become injured and trapped, and at the same time, first responders in Washington, DC, Arlington, Virginia, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania, rushed to the aid of military personnel and civilians who had been victimized as part of a coordinated terrorist effort to cripple the United States economy and defense network;
Whereas, despite mounting losses, the first responders in New York, Washington, DC, Virginia, and Pennsylvania carried out the greatest rescue operation in the history of the United States, saving thousands that would have otherwise perished;
Whereas the events of September 11, 2001, resulted in a shift in the United States national security posture, demanding an unwavering commitment to vigilance, proactivity, and caution that persists to the present day, and forever changing how we approach defending the homeland from threats foreign and domestic;
Whereas the first generation of Americans born following September 11, 2001, are reaching adulthood, yet only 14 States require youth to be educated on the events of that fateful day;
Whereas failing to educate the next generation of Americans about the events of September 11, 2001, would be a disservice to the memories of the 2,977 innocent individuals who were murdered on that day, as well as the thousands of first responders and survivors who, in the 22 years since the attacks, have been diagnosed with, or have died as a result of, cancers and other illnesses related to their presence during the attacks;
Whereas it is imperative to educate the next generation of Americans about the events of September 11, 2001, so as to prepare future leaders, Members of Congress, servicemembers, homeland security professionals, and everyday Americans with valuable insights and context critical to preventing future attacks on the United States; and
Whereas in memory of all those who perished during the September 11th terrorist attacks and those who continue to perish because of their rescue efforts on that day, we must uphold our commitment to honoring their sacrifice by ensuring that this fundamental part of the American story not be lost to future generations: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that all 50 States should include the study of the events of the September 11th terrorist attacks in the curriculum of elementary and secondary schools so that people in the United States may never forget that fateful day.
