118 HRES 559 IH: Declaring it is the policy of the United States that a nuclear Islamic Republic of Iran is not acceptable.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 559
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 27, 2023
Mr. McCaul
(for himself,
Mr. Schneider
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. Golden of Maine
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
,
Mr. Sherman
,
Mr. McCormick
, and
Ms. Manning
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Declaring it is the policy of the United States that a nuclear Islamic Republic of Iran is not acceptable.
Whereas an Islamic Republic of Iran that possesses a nuclear weapon would be an unacceptable threat to regional and global security;
Whereas Iran continues to enrich and stockpile uranium far in excess of the limits set under United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015);
Whereas the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) confirmed in May 2023 that Iran continues to enrich uranium to 60-percent purity;
Whereas the United States Ambassador to the Vienna Office of the United Nations and to the IAEA, Laura Holgate, affirmed
Iran’s production of uranium enriched up to 60 percent has no credible peaceful purpose.
;
Whereas IAEA investigators found uranium particles enriched to 83.7 percent at Iran’s Fordow nuclear facility in January 2023;
Whereas uranium enriched to 90 percent is weapons-grade material;
Whereas at a press conference in January 2023, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi stated regarding Iran:
One thing is true: They have amassed enough nuclear material for several nuclear weapons.
;
Whereas, in March 2023, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, testified that
Iran could produce fissile material for a nuclear weapon in less than two weeks and would only take several more months to produce an actual nuclear weapon.
;
Whereas Iran is now in possession of irreversible and dangerous nuclear knowledge;
Whereas Iran’s ongoing nuclear escalation poses a serious threat to the United States and its partners and allies including Israel; and
Whereas international complacency toward Iran’s illicit nuclear program threatens the global nonproliferation regime: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives declares it is the policy of the United States—
(1)
that a nuclear Islamic Republic of Iran is not acceptable;
(2)
that Iran must not be able to obtain a nuclear weapon under any circumstances or conditions;
(3)
to use all means necessary to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon; and
(4)
to recognize and support the freedom of action of partners and allies, including Israel, to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.
