118 HRES 889 IH: Condemning the Hamas-led terrorist attack on the State of Israel on October 7, 2023, and calling for Hamas to immediately and unconditionally surrender, cease its attacks, and safely release all hostages.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 889
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 21, 2023
Mr. Lawler
(for himself,
Mr. Moskowitz
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Ms. Malliotakis
,
Mr. Waltz
,
Mr. D'Esposito
,
Mr. Kustoff
, and
Mr. Gottheimer
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Condemning the Hamas-led terrorist attack on the State of Israel on October 7, 2023, and calling for Hamas to immediately and unconditionally surrender, cease its attacks, and safely release all hostages.
Whereas Hamas is a United States-designated Foreign Terrorist organization whose founding charter states a commitment to destroying the State of Israel;
Whereas, since Hamas was founded in 1987, Hamas terrorists have repeatedly carried out lethal attacks in Israel and, since taking control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, fought numerous wars against Israel;
Whereas, on October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists led an attack on the Israel, murdering upwards of 1,200 individuals, taking over 240 individuals hostage, and launching thousands of rockets toward Israel;
Whereas, since the attack, Israel has launched operations to defend its people, eradicate Hamas terrorists, and rescue hostages held in the Gaza Strip;
Whereas Israel, like other sovereign states, has a right to defend itself;
Whereas in past Hamas-Israel conflicts, Hamas has repeatedly broken negotiated ceasefire agreements and initiated attacks against Israel;
Whereas, on October 24, 2023, a Hamas official stated the terrorist organization’s determination to attack Israel in a similar manner to the October 7, 2023, attack until Israel is destroyed; and
Whereas intentionally murdering civilians is barbaric, inhumane, and indisputably wrong: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns the Hamas-led terrorist attack on the State of Israel on October 7, 2023; and
(2)
calls for Hamas to immediately and unconditionally surrender, cease its attacks, and safely release all hostages.
