118 HRES 513 IH: Expressing support for recognizing September 20 as National Service Dog Day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 513
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 15, 2023
Mr. Bost
(for himself and
Mr. Takano
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for recognizing September 20 as National Service Dog Day.
Whereas service dogs assist individuals with a wide range of challenges, including post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, epilepsy, visual impairment, hearing impairments, and mobility impairments;
Whereas service dogs can support veterans struggling mentally or physically after war, hear for individuals who are deaf, see for individuals who are blind, and sense changes in the body of an individual to alert the individual before a seizure occurs;
Whereas service dogs have assisted individuals in the United States since 1929;
Whereas service dogs were legally recognized by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
) to do work or perform tasks for an individual with a disability and have protections under the Fair Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.
) and section 41705 of title 49, United States Code (commonly known as the
Air Carrier Access Act of 1986
);
Whereas evidence-based research shows that service dogs provide numerous health and fitness benefits, including enhanced mobility, enhanced independence, and reduced symptoms of depression, anxiety, stress, and suicidal ideation;
Whereas tens of thousands of service dogs are estimated to be working in the 50 States, Puerto Rico, and Guam;
Whereas September 20 would be an appropriate day to recognize as National Service Dog Day; and
Whereas National Service Dog Day is an appropriate tribute to service dogs and the organizations that offer service dogs free of charge to veterans of the United States and individuals with disabilities: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports recognizing National Service Dog Day;
(2)
encourages all individuals in the United States to learn about the history of service dogs and the unique, positive impact service dogs have on individuals with disabilities; and
(3)
requests that the President issue a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to conduct appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for organizations that train and pair service dogs with individuals with disabilities in the United States.
