118 HRES 1138 IH: Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to deny certain privileges of the House of Representatives to former Members who have been expelled from the House, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-04-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1138
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 12, 2024
Mr. D'Esposito
(for himself,
Mr. LaLota
, and
Mr. Lawler
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to deny certain privileges of the House of Representatives to former Members who have been expelled from the House, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Upholding the Integrity of Our Institution Resolution
.
2.
Denying admission to Hall of the House to former Members who have been expelled
Clause 4(a) of rule IV of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended—
(1)
by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (3);
(2)
by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (4) and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(5)
has been expelled from the House.
.
3.
Benefits and services provided to certain former Members of the House of Representatives
Rule XXIX of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
5.
In the case of a former Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who has been expelled from the House of Representatives, such Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner may not retain possession of a Member pin after such expulsion and no benefit or service of the House shall be made available to such former Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner, including any of the following:
(a)
Access to the floor of the House.
(b)
Access to athletic facilities and other facilities available for the use of Members of the House.
(c)
Access to the Members’ Dining Room located in the House of Representatives wing of the United States Capitol.
(d)
Access to parking spaces.
(e)
Access to material from the House document room.
(f)
Use of the collections in the House Legislative Resource Center without borrowing privileges.
(g)
Short-term franking privileges.
(h)
Access to materials through the Congressional Research Service and the Library of Congress.
.
