Section 1. Policy. To help keep   competitive and assist the   people in understanding and addressing financial matters, it is the policy of   to encourage financial literacy among the   people.

 . 2. Establishment of the  . There is established within   the President's  ).

 . 3. Membership and Operation of the  . (a) The   shall consist of 19 members appointed by the President from among individuals not employed by  , consistent with subsection (b) of this section.

(b) In selecting individuals for appointment to the  , appropriate consideration should be given to selection of individuals with backgrounds as providers of, consumers of, promoters of access to, and educators with respect to financial education and financial services. Each individual member of the   will serve as a representative of his or her industry, trade group, public interest group, or other organization or group. The composition of the   will reflect the views of diverse stakeholders.

(c) The President shall designate a   and a Vice Chair from among the members of the  .

(d) Subject to the direction of the Secretary of the   (Secretary), the   shall convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and direct the work of subgroups of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of the  .

(e) The Vice Chair shall perform:

(i)     the duties of the   when the position of   is vacant; and

(ii)     such other functions as the   may from time to time assign.

 . 4. Functions of the  . To assist in implementing the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the   shall:

(a) obtain information and advice concerning financial literacy as appropriate in the course of its work from:

(i)     officers and employees of executive departments and agencies (including members of  ), unless otherwise directed by the head of the department or agency;

(ii)      , local, territorial, and tribal officials;

(iii)     providers of, consumers of, promoters of access to, and educators with respect to financial services;

(iv)     experts on matters relating to the policy set forth in section 1; and

(v)     such other individuals as the Secretary may direct;

(b) advise the President and the Secretary consistent with this order on means to implement effectively the policy set forth in section 1, including by providing advice on means to:

(i)     improve financial education efforts for youth in school and for adults in the workplace;

(ii)     promote effective access to financial services, especially for those without access to such services;

(iii)     establish effective measures of national financial literacy;

(iv)     conduct research on financial knowledge, including the collection of data on the extent of financial knowledge of individuals; and

(v)     strengthen and coordinate public and private sector financial education programs; and

(c) periodically report to the President, through the Secretary, on:

(i)     the status of financial literacy in  ;

(ii)     progress made in implementing the policy set forth in section 1 of this order; and

(iii)     recommendations on means to further implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, including with respect to the matters set forth in subsection (b)(i) through (v) of this section.

 . 5. Administration of the  . (a) To the extent permitted by law,   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , as determined by the Secretary, to implement this order.

(b) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, such assistance and information to the   as the Secretary may request to implement this order.

(c) Members of  (i)     shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  ; and

(ii)     while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(d) The Secretary shall designate an officer or employee of   within   to serve as an Executive Director to supervise the administrative support for the  .

 . 6. Termination of the  . Unless extended by the President, the   shall terminate   from the date of this order.

 . 7.  . (a) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)     authority granted by law to a department or agency or the head thereof; or

(ii)     functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
