Section 1. Executive Order   of  , is amended as follows:

(a)

in section 1, by inserting ", as amended by the Protocol of Amendment done at   and  ,   and  " after " ";

(b)

by striking section 2 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

"Sec. 2. (a) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and   shall be members of   of   and   ("Board") as provided in clauses (1), (3), and (5) of article II in chapter III of the Agreement.

(b)

Appointments to the   under clauses (7) and (9) of article II in chapter III of the Agreement shall be made by the President. Individuals so appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

(c)

The Secretary of the   is selected to be the Chairperson of the Board during any period in which   is to select the Chairperson under article III in chapter III of the Agreement.

(d)

Except with respect to functions assigned by section 4,  ,  , or 7 of

this order, the Secretary of the   shall coordinate with the Secretary of  ,  , such other agencies and officers as may be appropriate, and the individuals appointed under subsection 2(b) as may be appropriate, the development of the policies and positions of   with respect to matters coming before the Board.";

(c)

in section 3, by striking subsections (a), (b), and (c), striking "(d)", and striking "representatives" and inserting in lieu thereof "members of the   listed in subsections 2(a) and (b)";

(d)

in section 6, by striking "Advisory Committee" and inserting in lieu thereof "Community Adjustment and   ("Advisory Committee") established pursuant to section 543(b) of the NAFTA Implementation Act"; and

(e)

in section 7(c), by striking "Members" and inserting in lieu thereof "members".

 . 2. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
