Section 1. Establishment. The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall immediately establish within  ) a Task Force on New Americans (Task Force).

 . 2. Membership and Operation. (a) The Task Force shall be limited to the following members or employees designated by them at no lower than the Assistant Secretary level or its equivalent:

(i) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Attorney General;

(vi) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) such other officers or employees of   as the Secretary may from time to time designate; and

(xiii) such other officers of   as the Secretary may designate from time to time, with the concurrence of the respective heads of departments and agencies concerned.

(b) The Secretary shall convene and preside at meetings of  , direct its work, and as appropriate, establish and direct subgroups of   that shall consist exclusively of Task Force members. The Secretary shall designate an official of the   to serve as the Executive Secretary of  , and the Executive Secretary shall head the staff assigned to  .

 . 3. Functions. Consistent with applicable law, the Task Force shall:

(a) provide direction to executive departments and agencies (agencies) concerning the integration into   society of  's legal immigrants, particularly through instruction in English, civics, and history;

(b) promote public-private partnerships that will encourage businesses to offer English and civics education to workers;

(c) identify ways to expand English and civics instruction for legal immigrants, including through faith-based, community, and other groups, and ways to promote volunteer community service; and

(d) make recommendations to the President, through the Secretary, from time to time regarding:

(i) actions to enhance cooperation among agencies on the integration of legal immigrants into   society;

(ii) actions to enhance cooperation among  ,  , and local authorities responsible for the integration of legal immigrants;

(iii) changes in rules, regulations, or policy to improve the effective integration of legal immigrants into   society; and

(iv) proposed legislation relating to the integration of legal immigrants into   society.

 . 4. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the   shall provide the funding and administrative support the Task Force needs to implement this order, as determined by the Secretary.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is intended to improve the internal management of  . This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity against  , its departments, agencies, entities, instrumentalities, officers, employees, agents, or any other person.
