Section 1. President's  .

(a) Establishment and Membership. I hereby establish the President's   (PHSAC). The PHSAC shall be composed of not more than 21 members appointed by the President. In addition, the   and the Vice Chair of  ; the Chairman of the President's  ; and the Chair of the Panel on the Science and Technology of Combating Terrorism, President's  , shall serve as ex officio members of the  . The appointed members of the PHSAC shall be selected from the private sector, academia, professional service associations, federally funded research and development centers, nongovernmental organizations,   and local governments, and other appropriate professions and communities.

(b)

Chair and Vice Chair. The President shall designate a   and Vice Chair from among the appointed members of the  .

(c)

Senior  . (i) Establishment and Membership. The following four Senior Advisory Committees for Homeland Security (SACs) are hereby established to advise the PHSAC: (1) State and Local Officials; (2)  ;

(3)

Private Sector; and (4) Emergency Services, Law Enforcement, and  . Each   shall generally be composed of not more than 17 members selected by the Assistant to the President for   (Assistant). The President may establish additional SACs as appropriate, consistent with this order.

(ii)

Chairs and Vice Chairs. The Assistant shall from time to time designate a   and Vice Chair for each of the SACs from among the  's members.

(iii) Subcommittees. The Chair of each  , in consultation with the  , may as appropriate establish subcommittees to advise the  .

 . 2. Functions. The PHSAC shall meet periodically at the Assistant's request to:

(a) provide advice to the President through the Assistant on developing and coordinating the implementation of a comprehensive national strategy to secure   from terrorist threats or attacks;

(b)

recommend to the President through the Assistant ways to improve coordination, cooperation, and communication among  ,  , and local officials and private and other entities, and provide a means to collect scholarly research, technological advice, and information concerning processes and organizational management practices both inside and outside of  ;

(c)

provide advice to the President through the Assistant regarding the feasibility of implementing specific measures to detect, prepare for, prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist threats or attacks within  ;

(d)

examine, and advise the President through the Assistant on, the effectiveness of the implementation of specific strategies to detect, prepare for, prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist threats or attacks within  ; and

(e)

report periodically, as appropriate, to the President through the Assistant on matters within the scope of the  's functions as described in paragraphs (a) through

(d)

of this section.

 . 3. Administration. (a) Upon the request of  , through the Assistant, and to the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the PHSAC with such information relating to homeland security matters as the   may need for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b)

The PHSAC shall have an   Director selected by the Assistant.

(c)

Members shall serve without compensation for their work on the  , the SACs, and any subcommittees thereof. However, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(d)

To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the PHSAC with administrative support and with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of the  's functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the administration of any portion of this order, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by the Administrator.

(b) The PHSAC, any SACs, and any   subcommittees shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.
