Section 1. Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal. There is hereby established the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal with suitable appurtenances. Except as limited in section 3 of this order, and under uniform regulations to be prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments and approved by the Secretary of  , or under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal shall be awarded to members of   who serve or have served in military expeditions to combat terrorism, as defined by such regulations, on or after  , and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

 . 2. Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. There is hereby established the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal with suitable appurtenances. Except as limited in section 3 of this order, and under uniform regulations to be prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments and approved by the Secretary of  , or under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal shall be awarded to members of   who serve or have served in military operations to combat terrorism, as defined by such regulations, on or after  , and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

 . 3. Relationship to Other Awards. Notwithstanding section 3 of Executive

Order   of  , establishing   and section 3 of Executive Order  , establishing  , any member who qualified for those medals by reason of service in operations to combat terrorism  , and a terminal date to be determined by the Secretary of  , shall remain qualified for those medals. Upon application, any such member may be awarded either the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal or the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal in lieu of   or  , but no person may be awarded more than one of these four medals by reason of service in the same approved Global War on Terrorism expedition or operation to combat terrorism, and no person shall be entitled to more than one award of the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal or the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.

 . 4. Posthumous  . The Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal may be awarded posthumously to any person covered by and under regulations prescribed in accordance with the first or second sections of this order.

 . 5. Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed for any purpose as fixing, or authorizing the fixing of, the dates of initiation or termination of armed hostilities between   and terrorists of global reach.  
