Whereas the Nation will celebrate the 96th anniversary of the birth of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on Monday, January 20, 2025;
Whereas Dr. King taught that the blessing of diversity is our strength;
Whereas Dr. King fought, marched, and preached for the inalienable rights of all people, particularly Black Americans;
Whereas among these rights is the inviolable right of every person to cast their vote and make their voice heard in a representative democracy;
Whereas tolerance for one another’s difference in race, ethnicity, gender, culture, religion, sexual orientation, age, or disability is a profound virtue;
Whereas civil discourse in a land of democratic freedom is the true promise of our country; and
Whereas Dr. King once wrote in his 1963 Letter from a Birmingham Jail,
Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
celebrates the 96th anniversary of the birthday of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on January 20, 2025, which shall serve as a reminder that hate and hateful conduct based on differences has no place in the United States in tribute to his life and teachings;
(2)
affirms the words of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Anyone who lives inside the United States can never be considered an outsider anywhere within its bounds
;
(3)
honors the life, legacy, works, and heroism of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;
(4)
condemns any form of harassment, discrimination, or prejudice targeted at any minority ethnic group, including the Black community, Indigenous people, the Jewish community, the Asian-American and Pacific Islander community, the Muslim community, and the Hispanic and Latino communities;
(5)
condemns any form of harassment, discrimination, or prejudice based on a person’s gender, including the trans community and LGBTQ+ individuals;
(6)
abhors the violence and animus that led to the untimely death of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; and
(7)
calls on all people across the Nation and the world to uphold Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s values and teachings of justice, equality, peace, advocacy, and tolerance.
