Executive Order—Call for Troops
 
 

 

To the Governors of the several States:

The capture of  ,  , and Corinth by the national forces has enabled the insurgents to concentrate a large force at and about  , which place we must take with the least possible delay; in fact, there will soon be no formidable insurgent force except at  . With so large an army there, the enemy can threaten us on the Potomac and elsewhere. Until we have reestablished the national authority, all these places must be held, and we must keep a respectable force in front of  . But this, from the diminished strength of our  , by sickness and casualties, renders an addition to it necessary in order to close the struggle which has been prosecuted for   with energy and success. Rather than hazard the misapprehension of our military condition and of groundless alarm by a call for troops by proclamation, I have deemed it best to address you in this form. To accomplish the object stated we require without delay 150,000 men, including those recently called for by the Secretary of War. Thus reenforced our gallant   will be enabled to realize the hopes and expectations of the   and the people.

ABRAHAM  .

 

The PRESIDENT:

The undersigned, governors of  , impressed with the belief that the citizens of the   which they respectively represent are of one accord in the hearty desire that the recent successes of the Federal arms may be followed up by measures which must insure the speedy restoration of the Union, and believing that, in view of the present state of the important military movements now in progress and the reduced condition of our effective forces in the field, resulting from the usual and unavoidable casualties in the service, the time has arrived for prompt and vigorous measures to be adopted by the people in support of the great interests committed to your charge, respectfully request, if it meets with your entire approval, that you at once call upon the several   for such number of men as may be required to fill up all military organizations now in the field, and add to the armies heretofore organized such additional number of men as may, in your judgment, be necessary to garrison and hold all the numerous cities and military positions that have been captured by our armies, and to speedily crush the rebellion that still exists in several of the Southern States, thus practically restoring to the civilized world our great and good Government. All believe that the decisive moment is near at hand, and to that end the people of   are desirous to aid promptly in furnishing all reenforcements that you may deem needful to sustain our  .

 ,  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ; FREDERICKHOLBROOK, Governor of  :  , Governor of  :  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ;   PEIRPOINT, Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ;  , President Military Board of  ;  , Governor of  :  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  ;  , Governor of  : ALEXANDER RAMSEY, Governor of  ; RICHARD YATES, Governor of  ; EDWARD SALOMON, Governor of  .
