Whereas the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has committed acts of terrorism and crimes
against humanity and continues to train and equip jihadists to further
commit humanitarian atrocities in the region;
Whereas ISIL jihadists have directly threatened the United States and its allies;
Whereas ISIL poses a direct threat to United States personnel in Iraq and to the immediate security
and stability of the Middle East region;
Whereas, on August 8, 2014, United States Armed Forces conducted airstrikes in Iraq as authorized
by
the President, consistent with the requirements of the War Powers
Resolution (
Public Law 93–148
);
Whereas the War Powers Resolution requires the President to obtain congressional authorization for
the continued use of United States Armed Forces after the limitations
specified in section 5(b) of such Resolution have been met;
Whereas Congress, in order to determine the actions necessary and appropriate to protect the
national security interests of the United States, must receive a strategic
outlook on the role of United States Armed Forces in combating ISIL;
Whereas the President has authority under the Constitution to take action in order to deter and
prevent acts of international terrorism against the United States, as
Congress recognized in the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public
Law 107–40); and
Whereas it is in the national security interest of the United States to restore international peace
and security to the Middle East region: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Authorization for the Use of Military Force Against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
.
2.
Authorization for limited use of United States Armed Forces
(a)
Authorization
The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States as the President
determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to defend the national
security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by the
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
(b)
Termination
The authority of subsection (a) shall terminate at the close of the date that is 120 days after the
date of the enactment of this joint resolution.
(c)
War powers resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, Congress declares that this section
is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the
meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
3.
Repeal of prior authorization for use of United States Armed Forces
The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (
Public Law 107–243
; 50
U.S.C. 1541 note) is hereby repealed.
4.
Reports to Congress
(a)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, the President
shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President
pro tempore of the Senate, and the committees of Congress specified in
subsection (c) a report on the following:
(A)
The status of all actions taken pursuant to the exercise of the authority under section 2.
(B)
A description of all proposed actions that the President determines may be necessary and
appropriate to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant’s (ISIL)
threats to the United States and Middle East region.
(C)
The status of engagement of allies of the United States and international coalitions in combating
ISIL’s threats.
(2)
Consolidation
To the extent that the submission of any report described in this subsection coincides with the
submission of any other report on matters relevant to this joint
resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the
reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution, all such reports may
be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the
committees of Congress specified in subsection (c).
(b)
Budgetary effects
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, the President
shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President
pro tempore of the Senate, and the committees of Congress specified in
subsection (c) the estimated budgetary effects of actions proposed under
the reporting requirements of subsection (a).
(c)
Committees of Congress
The committees of Congress specified in this subsection are—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Oversight
and Government Reform of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
