115 HRES 184 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, respectively, certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to communications with the government of Russia.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-03-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 184
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 9, 2017
Mr. Jeffries
(for himself and
Mr. Ted Lieu of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, respectively,
certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to
communications with the government of Russia.
That the President is requested, and the Attorney General of the United States is directed, to transmit, respectively (in a manner appropriate to classified information, if the President or Attorney General determines appropriate), to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, memo, correspondence, or other communication in their possession, or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the following:
(1)
Any meeting or communication that occurred between Jefferson Beauregard Sessions III and any representative of the Russian government, including his meetings with the Russian Ambassador to the United States, Sergey I. Kislyak, on July 18, 2016, and September 8, 2016.
(2)
The Attorney General’s testimony before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on January 10, 2017, including but not limited to his statement that he
did not have communications with the Russians
.
(3)
The Attorney General’s written response to Senator Patrick Leahy’s letter of January 17, 2017.
(4)
The Attorney General’s letter of March 6, 2017, to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.
(5)
The Attorney General's preparation for confirmation hearings before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, with respect to the subject of contact between President Trump's campaign and any representative of the Russian government.
(6)
The Attorney General's recusal from any investigation related to the 2016 Presidential election, but not from other related matters, and the implementation of that recusal.
(7)
The application of part 600 of title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, to any case involving the 2016 Presidential election or any related matter.
(8)
Any meeting that occurred between any employee of President Trump’s campaign or transition team and any representative of the Russian government, including any meeting that involved Donald J. Trump, Michael Flynn, Jared Kushner, Carter Page, J.D. Gordon, Richard Burt, Paul Manafort, Roger Stone, or Michael Cohen.
