115 HRES 75 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding sexually exploited and trafficked girls in the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-01-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 75
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 31, 2017
Ms. DeLauro
(for herself,
Mr. Smith of Washington
,
Ms. Meng
,
Ms. Judy Chu of California
,
Ms. Roybal-Allard
,
Ms. Moore
,
Ms. Bordallo
,
Ms. Schakowsky
,
Mr. Tonko
,
Mr. Price of North Carolina
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Ms. Jackson Lee
,
Mr. Cohen
, and
Ms. Brownley of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding sexually exploited and trafficked
girls in the United States.
Whereas most girls subjected to commercial sexual exploitation and trafficking come from a broken child welfare system or are runaway youth that were subsequently preyed upon by exploiters and traffickers;
Whereas it is important to provide education for family, friends, and neighbors to understand that these girls are victims;
Whereas survivors of domestic trafficking need support in their efforts to raise awareness on identifying trafficked girls and the systems of support that such girls require to heal from the complex trauma of sexual violence and exploitation;
Whereas the same protections and supports available to victims of child abuse should be extended to child victims of trafficking; and
Whereas exploited and trafficked girls are not
bad girls
or
child prostitutes
, but are victims of systemized rape who need the same legal supports and protections other rape victims are afforded: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports efforts to—
(1)
provide protections and supports for sexually exploited and trafficked girls in the United States; and
(2)
create criminal or civil penalties for anyone who buys or sells a child through a system of child trafficking.
