115 HRES 1043 IH: Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit with limited exceptions the participation of any Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee of the House on the board of any publicly held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.
U.S. House of Representatives
2018-08-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1043
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 21, 2018
Miss Rice of New York
(for herself and
Mr. Reed
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit with limited exceptions the
participation of any Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or
employee of the House on the board of any publicly held or publicly
regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.
1.
Conflict of interest
Rule XXV of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
Conflict of interest
9.
A Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee of the House may not serve as an officer or member of the board of any publicly held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity. The preceding sentence shall not apply to service of a Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee as—
(a)
an officer or member of the board of an organization which is exempt from taxation under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, if such service is performed without compensation; or
(b)
an officer of member of the board of an institution or organization which is principally available to Members, Delegates, Resident Commissioner, officers, or employees of the House, or their families, if such service is performed without compensation.
.
2.
Effective date
The amendment made by section 1 of this resolution shall take effect immediately before noon, January 3, 2019.
