118 SRES 841 ATS: Designating September 2024 as “National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month”.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 841
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 23, 2024
Mr. Schumer
(for
Mr. Manchin
(for himself,
Mr. Scott of South Carolina
,
Mrs. Capito
,
Mr. Reed
,
Mr. Casey
,
Mr. Hawley
, and
Mr. Graham
)) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating September 2024 as
National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month
.
Whereas each year more than 14,500 children under the age of 19 in the United States are diagnosed with cancer;
Whereas every year more than 1,500 children in the United States lose their lives to cancer;
Whereas childhood cancer is the leading cause of death from disease after infancy and one of the leading causes of death overall for children in the United States;
Whereas the 5-year survival rate for children with cancer in the United States has increased from 58 percent in the mid-1970s to 85 percent in 2024, representing a significant improvement from previous decades;
Whereas 60 to 90 percent of children in the United States who survive cancer will develop at least one chronic health condition, and some survivors may face a late effect from treatment that can be severe or life-threatening; and
Whereas childhood cancer occurs frequently and spares no racial or ethnic group, socioeconomic class, or geographic region: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates September 2024 as
National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month
;
(2)
requests that the Federal Government, States, localities, and nonprofit organizations observe the month with appropriate programs and activities, with the goal of increasing public knowledge of the risks of childhood cancer;
(3)
encourages survivors of childhood cancer to continue to receive ongoing monitoring and care throughout their adult lives;
(4)
recognizes the human toll of childhood cancer and pledges to make the prevention of and cure for childhood cancer a public health priority;
(5)
reminds the people of the United States of the bravery of children who are diagnosed with cancer; and
(6)
commends and honors the courage of such children.
