118 SRES 819 ATS: Designating September 25, 2024, as “National Lobster Day”.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 819
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 16, 2024
Mr. King
(for himself,
Ms. Collins
,
Mr. Reed
,
Mr. Blumenthal
,
Mrs. Shaheen
,
Mr. Murphy
,
Mr. Markey
,
Mr. Whitehouse
,
Ms. Hassan
,
Ms. Warren
, and
Mr. Scott of Florida
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating September 25, 2024, as
National Lobster Day
.
Whereas lobstering has served as an economic engine and family tradition in the United States for centuries;
Whereas thousands of families in the United States make their livelihoods from catching, processing, or serving lobsters;
Whereas the lobster industry employs people of all ages year-round, and many harvesters begin fishing as children and stay in the industry for their entire working lives;
Whereas the lobster industry has spearheaded sustainability measures for more than 150 years, ensuring the health of the lobster stock and the marine environment;
Whereas consumers are looking to add more sustainable seafood to their diets, and more people are enjoying lobster at home;
Whereas historical lore notes that lobster likely joined turkey on the table at the very first Thanksgiving feast in 1621, and lobster continues to be a mainstay during many other holiday traditions;
Whereas lobster harvesters are evolving and diversifying their businesses to help maintain the health of the ocean, including through kelp farming, which absorbs carbon dioxide from seawater;
Whereas throughout history, Presidents of the United States have served lobster at their inaugural celebrations and state dinners with international leaders;
Whereas lobster is a versatile source of lean protein that is low in saturated fat and high in vitamin B12;
Whereas lobster is continually incorporated into foods such as pho, tacos, gnocchi, doughnuts, cocktails, ice cream, and butter;
Whereas the peak of the lobstering season in the United States occurs in late summer;
Whereas the Unicode Consortium added a lobster to its emoji set in 2018 in recognition of the popularity of the lobster around the world;
Whereas lobsters have inspired artists in the United States and throughout the world for hundreds of years;
Whereas lobsters have been, and continue to be, used as mascots for sports teams;
Whereas lobsters inspire innovation of all kinds beyond the culinary realm, including skincare, fertilizer, robotics, and biodegradable golf balls;
Whereas countless people in the United States enjoy lobster rolls to celebrate summer, from beaches to backyards, and from fine-dining restaurants to lobster shacks; and
Whereas lobster is a staple on the menus of beloved restaurants across the United States, and in kitchens across the United States, bringing families and friends together: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates September 25, 2024, as
National Lobster Day
; and
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
