Section 1. In order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202) are modified as provided in Annex I to this Order.

Sec. 2. Annex II of Executive Order No. 11888, as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the GSP when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended as set forth in Annex II to this Order.

Sec. 3. Annex III of Executive Order No. 11888, as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the GSP when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the TSUS, is amended as set forth in Annex III to this Order.

Sec. 4. General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the TSUS, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the GSP except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified as set forth in Annex IV to this Order.

Sec. 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new TSUS items created by Annex I to this Order, Annex III to Proclamation 4707 and Annex III to Proclamation 4768 are amended as set forth in Annex V to this Order.

Sec. 6. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the TSUS for any item specified in Annex I to this Order is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" by Annex I to this Order, the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the TSUS.

Sec. 7. Annexes III and IV of Proclamation 4707 and Annexes II, III, and IV of Proclamation 4768 are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this Order.

Sec. 8. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the TSUS, listing the designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the GSP, is modified as provided in Annex VI to this Order.

Sec. 9(a). The amendments made by the sections designated "A" in the Annexes to this Order, by section C of Annex I, by section B of Annex V, and by Annex VI shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after the date that is fifteen days after the date of publication of this Order in the Federal Register.

(b) Unless otherwise specified, the remaining amendments made by this Order shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after July 1, 1985.
