118 HJ 20 IH: Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of consecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-01-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 20
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 12, 2023
Mr. Van Orden
submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of consecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve.
That the following article is proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years after the date of its submission for ratification:
—
1.
No person who has been a Senator for two consecutive terms shall again be eligible to serve as a Senator until the second Congress that begins after the end of such second consecutive term. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, a person who is a Senator during the period beginning with the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress may serve as a Senator for an unlimited number of consecutive terms, but shall not again be eligible to serve as a Senator until the second Congress that begins after the end of the person’s final consecutive term of that period.
2.
No person who has been a Representative for six consecutive terms shall again be eligible to serve as a Representative until the second Congress that begins after the end of the sixth consecutive term. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, a person who is a Representative during the period beginning with the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress may serve as a Representative for an unlimited number of consecutive terms, but shall not again be eligible to serve as a Representative until the second Congress that begins after the end of the person’s final consecutive term of that period.
3.
For purposes of this article, any term a person serves as a Senator or Representative to fill a vacancy shall not be included in determining the number of consecutive terms that the person has been a Senator or Representative unless the period of time for which the person fills the vacancy is greater than three years in the case of a Senator or greater than one year in the case of a Representative.
.
