Executive Order
 
 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY,

 ,  ,  .

Attention is called to the following section of the act of  , entitled "An act providing a civil government for  :"

" . 14. That the provisions of chapter 3, Title XXIII, of the Revised Statutes of  , relating to the unorganized Territory of  , shall remain in full force except as herein specially otherwise provided; and the importation, manufacture, and sale of intoxicating liquors in said district, except for medicinal, mechanical, and scientific purposes, is hereby prohibited under the penalties which are provided in section   of the Revised Statutes for the wrongful importation of distilled spirits; and the President of   shall make such regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this section."

To enforce this section of law the following regulations are prescribed:

No intoxicating liquors shall be landed at any port or place in said Territory without a permit from the chief officer of the customs at such port or place, to be issued upon evidence satisfactory to such officer that the liquors are imported and are to be used solely for medicinal, mechanical, and scientific purposes.

No person shall manufacture or sell intoxicating liquors within the   of   without first having obtained a license from the governor of said  , to be issued upon evidence satisfactory to that officer that the making and sale of such liquor will be conducted strictly in accordance with the requirements of the statute.

Any intoxicating liquors imported, manufactured, or sold within the limits of said Territory in violation of these regulations, and the persons engaged in such violation, will be dealt with in the manner prescribed in section   of the Revised Statutes; and the governor of   and the officers of the customs at any port or place in   from which intoxicating liquors may be shipped to that  , as well as officers of   within that  , are hereby authorized respectively to exact, in their discretion, a bond of the character mentioned in section  ,  , from the master or mate of any vessel and from the persons in such Territory to whom the liquors may be sent.

The penalty prescribed by section 1955,  , for violation of the law is a fine not exceeding $500, or imprisonment not  , and the forfeiture of the vessel bringing the merchandise and her cargo, together with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, where the value of the merchandise exceeds $400. Where the value does not exceed $400, the penalty is forfeiture of the merchandise.

The proper officers within the   are charged with the execution of the law and these regulations. Intoxicating liquors forfeited under the provisions of this act will be subject to sale under the same provisions of law as govern the sale of other goods that may have become liable to forfeiture, but will only be delivered for removal beyond the limits of the  .

 ,

Secretary.

Approved:

 