1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combating Implicit Bias in Education Act
.
2.
Grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Education shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to local educational agencies to provide training to educators, principals, and other staff of elementary schools and secondary schools on implicit bias, for the purposes of—
(1)
ending discrimination based on such bias, including—
(A)
in the administration of exclusionary discipline (including suspensions and expulsions);
(B)
in access to gifted and talented programs; and
(C)
in the apportionment of academic resources;
(2)
improving the school climate and the relationships between students and educators, principals, and other staff of elementary and secondary schools; and
(3)
improving the academic achievement and attainment of students.
(b)
Application
A local educational agency desiring to receive a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary as the Secretary shall require. The application shall include a description of how the local educational agency will use the grant to carry out training under subsection (a).
(c)
Report
The Director of the Institute of Education Sciences shall conduct a periodic review of the effectiveness of the grant program established by this Act.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this Act, there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2021.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Elementary and Secondary Education Act terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
,
other staff
, and
secondary school
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
Implicit Bias
The term
implicit bias
means bias with respect to actual or perceived race, religion, sex (including sexual orientation or gender identity), disability, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status, that results from subconsciously held attitudes, beliefs, or associations.
(3)
Training
The term
training
means evidence based, on-going professional development and support.
