1.
Positive psychology reconditioning program grants
(a)
Grant program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a grant program under which the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to carry out positive psychology reconditioning programs for veterans.
(b)
Amount of grant
Each grant awarded by the Secretary under subsection (a) may not exceed $750,000.
(c)
Eligible entities
An entity is eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a) if the entity is a nonprofit organization that is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
(d)
Priority of award
In selecting eligible entities to award a grant under subsection (a), the Secretary shall prioritize entities that, before the date of the award, carry out programs using positive psychology reconditioning techniques.
(e)
Use of grants
In determining the positive psychology reconditioning techniques to be carried out under a grant awarded under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the following:
(1)
The use of an initial camaraderie and bonding experience to initiate the rebuilding of veteran social relationships in one or more groups of 12 veterans or less (which may be carried out simultaneously).
(2)
The use of highly qualified instructors to lead appropriate physical workouts and group discussion occurring not fewer than three times per week during a program period that is at least three months.
(3)
Programs that appropriately introduce local civilians to the veterans participating in the program and have such local civilians become participating members of the group in the program.
(4)
Programs that encourage the full reentry of veterans back into society and that graduate the participating veterans who are adjusted to living in a civilian world.
(5)
Programs that expose a group of veterans to common social experiences in the location in which the program is carried out.
(6)
Programs that practice positive psychology techniques, including daily gratitude journaling and mindfulness, to increase physical and mental well-being throughout the program.
(f)
Records
The Secretary may not require an eligible entity that is awarded a grant under subsection (a) to maintain records on veterans seeking support or participating in a program under such grant, or to report any personally identifying information directly or indirectly to the Secretary about such veterans.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated a total of $15,000,000 to carry out this section during fiscal years 2019 through 2021.
(h)
Veteran defined
In this section, the term
veteran
has the meaning given that term in section 101(2) of title 38, United States Code, and includes any person who is entitled under
chapter 1223
of title 10, United States Code, to retired pay for nonregular service or, but for age, would be entitled under such chapter to retired pay for nonregular service.
