1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
TSA National Deployment Force Act
.
2.
National deployment office
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 449
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
44947.
National Deployment Office
(a)
Establishment
There is established within the Transportation Security Administration a National Deployment Office, to be headed by an individual with supervisory experience. Such individual shall be designated by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
(b)
Duties
The individual designated as the head of the National Deployment Office shall be responsible for the following:
(1)
Maintaining a National Deployment Force within the Transportation Security Administration that is comprised of transportation security officers, including supervisory transportation security officers and lead transportation security officers, to provide the Administration with rapid and efficient response capabilities and augment the Department of Homeland Security’s homeland security operations to mitigate and reduce risk, including for the following:
(A)
Airports temporarily requiring additional security personnel due to an emergency, seasonal demands, hiring shortfalls, severe weather conditions, passenger volume mitigation, equipment support, or other reasons.
(B)
Special events requiring enhanced security including National Special Security Events, as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(C)
Response in the aftermath of any manmade disaster, including any terrorist attack.
(D)
Other such situations, as determined by the Administrator.
(2)
Educating transportation security officers regarding how to participate in the Administration’s National Deployment Force.
(3)
Recruiting officers to serve on the National Deployment Force, in accordance with a staffing model to be developed by the Administrator.
(4)
Approving one-year appointments for officers to serve on the National Deployment Force, with an option to extend upon officer request and with the approval of the appropriate Federal Security Director.
(5)
Training officers to serve on the National Deployment Force.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for subchapter II of
chapter 449
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
44947. National Deployment Office.
.
3.
Conforming amendment
Subsection (f) of section 114 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (14), by striking
and
after the semicolon at the end;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (15) as paragraph (16); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (14) the following new paragraph:
(15)
establish and maintain a National Deployment Office as required under section 44947 of this title; and
.
4.
Career development
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration may consider service in the National Deployment Force as a positive factor when evaluating applicants for promotion opportunities within the Transportation Security Administration.
5.
Annual report
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for five years, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report regarding activities of the National Deployment Office, including the National Deployment Force, established under section 44947 of title 49, United States Code, as added by section 2 of this Act. Each such report shall include information relating to the following:
(1)
When, where, why, how many, and for how long the National Deployment Force was deployed throughout the 12-month period covered by such report and the costs associated with such deployment.
(2)
A description of collaboration between the National Deployment Office and other components of the Department of Homeland Security, other Federal agencies, and State and local transportation security stakeholders.
(3)
The size of the National Deployment Force, including information on the staffing model of such Force and adherence to such model as established by the Administrator.
(4)
Information on recruitment, appointment, and training activities, including processes utilized to attract, recruit, appoint, and train officers to serve on the National Deployment Force.
