1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clean Water Partnership Act
.
2.
Clean water land acquisition grants
(a)
Authority
To the extent that funds are made available in advance for this Act, the Secretary shall make grants, in accordance with the requirements and criteria described in subsection (b), to States to assist the States in acquiring land, water, or interests therein (including conservation easements) if the Secretary determines such acquisition will substantially improve, preserve, or maintain water quality for an area in perpetuity.
(b)
Requirements and criteria
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, after providing notice and not less than 90 days for public comment, the Secretary shall issue a final rule providing requirements and criteria for making grants under this Act. Such requirements and criteria shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Criteria that the Secretary shall use to determine whether an acquisition proposed to be facilitated with a grant under this Act will substantially improve, preserve, or maintain water quality for an area in perpetuity.
(2)
A requirement that documentation of an acquisition facilitated with a grant under this Act contain deed restrictions, reversionary clauses, or other means satisfactory to the Secretary to ensure that the acquisition shall be used in perpetuity to substantially improve, preserve, or maintain water quality for an area.
(3)
A requirement that a State that receives a grant under this Act—
(A)
provide matching funds for the acquisition proposed to be facilitated with a grant under this Act in the form of cash or an in-kind contribution in an amount equal to but not less than 100 percent of the amount of the grant; and
(B)
demonstrate to the Secretary, in advance of receiving the grant, the ability of the State to provide the match required under subparagraph (A).
(4)
Clarification that the cost to a State of incentives given by the State in exchange for an acquisition facilitated with a grant under this Act may be—
(A)
offset with amounts from the grant;
(B)
considered as an in-kind contribution of the State under paragraph (3); or
(C)
a combination of (A) and (B).
(5)
A requirement that a State requesting a grant under this Act submit to the Secretary a grant application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary requires.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this Act, $750,000,000 for each fiscal year.
(d)
Definitions
For the purposes of this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting in consultation with the Administrator.
(3)
State
The term
State
means any governmental entity of the several States, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States.
