1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2017
.
2.
Allowable partial hospitalization services
(a)
In general
Section 1861(ff)(2) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(ff)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (H) by striking
, and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J);
(3)
in subparagraph (J), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking
(but in no event to include meals and transportation)
;
(4)
by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following new subparagraph:
(I)
nutritional planning, meals, and transportation, and
; and
(5)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
The guidelines established under the preceding sentence shall not allow for nutritional planning, meals, and transportation to be considered as meeting the minimum number of services requirement in order to receive payment for such items and services.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to services furnished on or after January 1, 2018.
3.
Behavioral Health Advisory Committee
(a)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall convene a Behavioral Health Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the
Advisory Committee
) composed of stakeholders in the behavioral health community.
(b)
Duties
The Advisory Committee shall address issues relating to—
(1)
discrimination against the chronically mentally ill, elderly, and United States veterans as it relates to receiving treatment for mental illness;
(2)
the establishment of conditions of participation for community mental health centers (as defined in paragraph (3)(B) of section 1861(ff) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(ff)
)) that provide partial hospitalization services (as defined in paragraph (1) of such section) under the Medicare Program under title XVIII of such Act; and
(3)
other matters to be determined jointly by the Secretary and the Advisory Committee.
(c)
Implementation
Not later than January 1, 2019, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall implement conditions of participation for community mental health centers (as so defined) that provide partial hospitalization services (as so defined) under the Medicare Program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
