1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Senior Housing Improvement and Retirement Accounts Act of 2017
or the
Senior Housing IRA Act of 2017
.
2.
Increase in exclusion limitation for gains from certain sales of principal residences
(a)
In general
Subsection (b) of
section 121
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
Special rules for certain taxpayers
(A)
In general
In the case of a qualified individual, paragraph (1) shall be applied by inserting
the sum of
before
$250,000
and by inserting
and the amount treated under paragraph (8) of section 408A(c) as a qualified rollover contribution to a Roth IRA of the qualified individual referred to in paragraph (6)(A)
after
$250,000
.
(B)
Qualified individual
The term
qualified individual
means, with respect to a sale or exchange of property to which subsection (a) applies, an individual who—
(i)
has attained the age of 55 before the date of such sale or exchange,
(ii)
has owned and used the property as such individual’s principal residence for a period of not less than 20 years, and
(iii)
has not previously elected to treat a contribution to a Roth IRA as a qualified rollover contribution under paragraph (8) of section 408A(c).
In the case of a joint return, ownership and use of the property by an individual’s spouse shall be
taken into account as ownership and use by such individual.
.
(b)
Removing Roth IRA contribution limits
(1)
In general
Subsection (c) of section 408A of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(8)
Proceeds from sales of certain residences treated as rollover contributions
(A)
In general
In the case of a qualified individual (as defined in subsection (b)(6)(B) of section 121), a contribution to a Roth IRA of gain from a sale or exchange of property described in subsection (a) of such section may be treated, at the election of such taxpayer, as a qualified rollover contribution from a Roth IRA for purposes of this section.
(B)
Limitation
The amount of gain that may be treated as a qualified rollover contribution under subparagraph (A) for a taxpayer may not exceed the excess of—
(i)
the gain from the sale or exchange described in subparagraph (A), over
(ii)
the amount that would (without regard to paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of such section) be excluded from gross income under subsection (a) of section 121.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to sales or exchanges of property in taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
