1.
Voluntary model pathways
(a)
Establishment of voluntary model pathways
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall initiate the development of voluntary model pathways for modernizing the electric grid through a collaborative, public-private effort that—
(A)
produces illustrative policy pathways that can be adapted for State and regional applications by regulators and policymakers;
(B)
facilitates the modernization of the electric grid to achieve the objectives described in paragraph (2);
(C)
ensures a reliable, resilient, affordable, safe, and secure electric system; and
(D)
acknowledges and provides for different priorities, electric systems, and rate structures across States and regions.
(2)
Objectives
The pathways established under paragraph (1) shall facilitate achievement of the following objectives:
(A)
Near real-time situational awareness of the electric system.
(B)
Data visualization.
(C)
Advanced monitoring and control of the advanced electric grid.
(D)
Enhanced certainty for private investment in the electric system.
(E)
Increased innovation.
(F)
Greater consumer empowerment.
(G)
Enhanced grid resilience, reliability, and robustness.
(H)
Improved—
(i)
integration of distributed energy resources;
(ii)
interoperability of the electric system; and
(iii)
predictive modeling and capacity forecasting.
(3)
Steering committee
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a steering committee to facilitate the development of the pathways under paragraph (1), to be composed of members appointed by the Secretary, consisting of persons with appropriate expertise representing a diverse range of interests in the public, private, and academic sectors, including representatives of—
(A)
the Smart Grid Task Force established under section 1303 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17383
); and
(B)
the Smart Grid Advisory Committee established under section 1303 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17383
).
(b)
Technical assistance
The Secretary may provide technical assistance to States, Indian tribes, or units of local government to adopt one or more elements of the pathways developed under subsection (a)(1).
(c)
Definition of Secretary
In this section, the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
