1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Bump Act of 2017
.
2.
Higher FMAP for increased expenditures under Medicaid for mental and behavioral health services
(a)
In general
Section 1903(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396b(a)(5)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
an amount equal
and inserting
(A) an amount equal
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
and
(B)
an amount equal to 90 percent of the amounts by which—
(i)
the sum of the amounts expended which are attributable to the offering, arranging, and furnishing (directly or on a contract basis) under the State plan of mental and behavioral health services (including those related to substance use) for such quarter, exceeds
(ii)
the sum of the amounts expended which are attributable to the offering, arranging, and furnishing (directly or on a contract basis) under the State plan of such services for the corresponding quarter in the four-quarter period ending on March 31, 2017, plus
.
(b)
Effective Date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to calendar quarters beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
3.
MACPAC report regarding mental and behavioral health services
Section 1900(b)(6) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396(b)(6)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Annual reports regarding mental and behavioral health services
(i)
In general
For each year (beginning with 2018), MACPAC shall submit to Congress a report on mental and behavioral health services under this title in each State selected under clause (iii) for such year. Such report shall include information on the following under this title for each such State:
(I)
Payment rates for such services.
(II)
The rationale for deriving such payment rates.
(III)
Utilization of such services.
(ii)
Availability of DHHS information
The Secretary shall periodically provide to MACPAC such information on mental and behavioral health services furnished to individuals receiving benefits under this title as MACPAC may request for purposes of preparing a report required under this subparagraph.
(iii)
Selection of States
(I)
In general
For each year (beginning with 2018), MACPAC shall select, subject to subclause (II), for purposes of the report required under clause (i) for such year not fewer than five States that, to the greatest extent possible, vary with respect to geography, demography, and the manner in which mental and behavioral health services are furnished under this title.
(II)
Ensuring eventual selection of all States
A State that has been selected for a year may not be selected for a subsequent year unless all other States have been selected during the period beginning with such year and ending with such subsequent year.
.
