1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Opioid Preventing Abuse through Continuing Education Act of 2017
or the
Opioid PACE Act of 2017
.
2.
Practitioner education
(a)
Training requirements
(1)
In general
Section 303(f) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 823(f)
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as subparagraphs (A) through (E), respectively;
(B)
by striking
(f) The Attorney General
and inserting
(f)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Attorney General
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
(A)
To be registered under paragraph (1) to prescribe or otherwise dispense opioids for the treatment of pain, or pain management, a practitioner (other than a hospital, a pharmacy, a pharmacist, or a veterinarian) shall comply with the 12-hour training requirement of this paragraph at least once during each 3-year period.
(B)
The training requirement of this paragraph is that the practitioner has completed not less than 12 hours of training (through classroom situations, seminars at professional society meetings, electronic communications, or otherwise) with respect to—
(i)
pain management treatment guidelines and best practices,
(ii)
early detection of opioid addiction, and
(iii)
the treatment and management of opioid-dependent patients,
that is provided by the American Society of Addiction Medicine, the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry, the American Medical Association, the American Osteopathic Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American Academy of Pain Management, the American Pain Society, the American Academy of Pain Medicine, the American Board of Pain Medicine, the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians, or any other organization that the Secretary determines is appropriate for purposes of this paragraph.
.
(2)
Funding
The Drug Enforcement Administration shall fund the enforcement of the requirements specified in section 303(f)(2) of the Controlled Substances Act (as added by paragraph (1)) through the use of a portion of the licensing fees paid by controlled substance prescribers under the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.).
(b)
Establishment of training modules
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish or support the establishment of one or more training modules to be used to meet the training requirement under section 303(f)(2) of the Controlled Substances Act (as added by subsection (a)(1)).
(2)
Eligible entities
To be eligible to receive support under paragraph (1), an entity shall be—
(A)
one of the organizations listed in subparagraph (B) of section 303(f)(2) of the Controlled Substances Act (as added by subsection (a)(1)); or
(B)
any other organization that the Secretary determines is appropriate to provide training under such section 303(f)(2).
(3)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
