1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stopping the Iron Pipeline Act of 2017
.
2.
Passive capability to identify lost and stolen firearms
(a)
Establishment of national standard
(1)
In general
The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the National Institute for Standards and Technology, establish in regulations a national standard for the incorporation of a passive identification capability into all firearms sold in the United States.
(2)
Passive identification capability defined
In this section, the term
passive identification capability
means a technology that—
(A)
enables a firearm to be identified by a mobile or fixed reading device; and
(B)
does not emit or broadcast an electronic signal or other information that would enable the firearm or its owner to be monitored or tracked.
(3)
Considerations
In developing the standard, the Attorney General shall give equal priority to the following:
(A)
The right of firearm owners to maintain their full right to privacy under the 4th Amendment and their right to legally own firearms under the 2nd Amendment.
(B)
The ability of law enforcement authorities to use the capability to track lost and stolen guns.
(C)
The ability of manufacturers to incorporate the capability using existing firearm manufacturing processes.
(D)
The resistance to tampering and destruction of the technology used to incorporate the capability.
(b)
Prohibition; penalty
(1)
Prohibition
It shall be unlawful for a person, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, to manufacture a firearm that does not have a passive identification capability that meets the national standard established under subsection (a).
(2)
Civil penalty
After notice and opportunity for hearing, the Attorney General shall impose on a person who violates paragraph (1) a civil money penalty in such amount, not exceeding $2,500 per firearm, as the Attorney General shall prescribe in regulations.
(3)
Effective date
This subsection shall take effect on such date as the Attorney General shall prescribe in regulations that is not later than 3 years after the establishment of the national standard under subsection (a).
