1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Affordability for Constant and Continual Education to Enhance Student Success Act
or the
All-Year ACCESS Act
.
2.
Year-round Federal Pell Grant students
(a)
In general
Section 401(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Year-round federal pell grant students
(A)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the Secretary shall award, to an eligible student who meets the requirements in subparagraph (B) who has received a Federal Pell Grant for an award year and is enrolled in a program of study for one or more additional payment periods during the same award year that are not otherwise covered by the student’s Federal Pell Grant, an additional Federal Pell Grant for the additional payment periods.
(B)
Eligibility
In order to be eligible to receive the additional Federal Pell Grant for an award year that is described in subparagraph (A), a student shall, in addition to meeting all eligibility requirements for the receipt of a Federal Pell Grant—
(i)
be enrolled on at least a half-time basis for a period of more than one academic year, or more than 2 semesters or the equivalent of 2 semesters, during a single award year; and
(ii)
be enrolled in a program of instruction at an institution of higher education for which the institution awards an associate or baccalaureate degree or a certificate.
(C)
Amounts
In the case of a student receiving more than one Federal Pell Grant in a single award year under subparagraph (A), the total amount of the Federal Pell Grants awarded to such student for the award year shall not exceed an amount equal to 150 percent of the total maximum Federal Pell Grant for such award year calculated in accordance with paragraph (7)(C)(iv)(II).
(D)
Inclusion in duration limit
Any period of study covered by a Federal Pell Grant awarded under subparagraph (A) shall be included in determining a student’s duration limit under subsection (c)(5).
(9)
Crossover period
In any case where an eligible student is receiving a Federal Pell Grant for a payment period that spans 2 award years, the Secretary shall allow the eligible institution in which the student is enrolled to determine the award year to which the additional period shall be assigned.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on July 1, 2017.
