1.
Prohibition on security assistance
(a)
In general
For the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date described in
section 3
the Secretary of Defense may not—
(1)
provide any United States assistance, including security assistance, intelligence, training, equipment, or services relating to maintenance, testing, or technical data, to—
(A)
the Government of Saudi Arabia, including the Ministries of Defense, Interior, and Intelligence; or
(B)
any agent or instrumentality of such Government; or
(2)
engage in any defense cooperation with such Government, Ministries, agents, or instrumentalities.
(b)
Exception for the protection of United States personnel and citizens
The prohibition under
subsection (a)
shall not apply with respect to activities of the Department of Defense relating to the protection of United States diplomatic and consular posts or personnel or to the evacuation of United States citizens.
2.
Prohibition on arms sales
For the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date described in
section 3
, no defense article, defense service, or design and construction service, as such terms are defined for purposes of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.), may be sold or otherwise made available to the Government of Saudi Arabia or to any agents or instrumentalities of such Government.
3.
Determination and certification by Secretary of State
The date described in this section is the date on which the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that—
(1)
the Government of Saudi Arabia did not order or direct the disappearance, imprisonment, or death of Jamal Khashoggi; and
(2)
no agent or instrumentality of the Government of Saudi Arabia ordered, directed, or was in any other way responsible for such disappearance, imprisonment, or death.
4.
Report on status of Jamal Khashoggi
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the status of Jamal Khashoggi, the progress and findings of the United States investigation into his disappearance and its aftermath, and the role of the Government of Saudi Arabia and its agents and instrumentalities in such status, disappearance, and aftermath.
(b)
Form
The report required by
subsection (a)
shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
5.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
