1.
Land exchange involving Cape Cod National Seashore
(a)
Authorization of exchange
If title acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the National Park Service (referred to hereafter in this section as the
Secretary
), for non-Federal land defined in subsection (b)(1) is conveyed to the United States, the Secretary shall convey to the owner of the non-Federal land, subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land defined in subsection (b)(2).
(b)
Land descriptions
(1)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 1.09 acres of land depicted as Tract 22-4556 on the map titled
United States Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National Seashore
and dated October 20, 1963, Sheet 202-22A.
(2)
Non-Federal land
The term
non-Federal land
means the approximately 1.02 acres of land depicted as Tract 26-4653 on the map titled
United States, Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National Seashore
and dated October 27, 1964, Sheet 202-26.
(c)
Acceptable title
Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to the United States under subsection (a) shall be such title as is acceptable to the Secretary, in conformance with title approval standards applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
(d)
Applicable laws; terms and conditions
The exchange under this section shall be subject to—
(1)
the laws (including regulations) and policies applicable to exchanges of land administered by the National Park Service, including the laws and policies concerning equalization of values, and environmental compliance; with the exception of appraisal requirements, and
(2)
such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(e)
Appraisals
For the purpose of valuation of the land proposed for exchange under this section, the Secretary may use the appraisals conducted by Michael Sutton, Certified General Real Estate Appraiser, and dated July 14 and July 22, 2009.
(f)
Administration
The land acquired by the Secretary pursuant to the exchange authorized by this section shall be administered as part of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
(g)
Maps
The maps referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the Department of the Interior.
(h)
Definition of improved property
Section 4(d) of
Public Law 87–126
(
16 U.S.C. 459b–3(d)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
The term
improved property
includes such dwelling structures (including the land thereon) as shall be conveyed by the Secretary pursuant to section 2 in exchange for conveyance to or acquisition by the Secretary of an improved property as described in this section.
.
