1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
UNRWA Accountability Act of 2018
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should—
(1)
continue to oppose anti-Israel bias at the United Nations and in United Nations agencies;
(2)
define and convey to the United Nations and appropriate United Nations agencies reform priorities that should be met in order to facilitate future United States funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA); and
(3)
support greater transparency in ongoing reform efforts at UNRWA.
3.
Requirement for strategy on administration policy regarding UNRWA
(a)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report on the long-term strategy for funding and policy towards UNRWA.
(b)
Contents
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A detailed strategy regarding future United States contributions to UNRWA, including the anticipated United States contributions to UNRWA for the five fiscal years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
An identification of the bureaus, entities, and leadership positions and offices within the Department of State or any other Executive branch agencies that review United States contributions to UNRWA, and an identification of the lead position in each such agency who is overseeing each such corresponding review.
(3)
The metrics, data, and other information being used by the Department of State or any other Executive branch agency to review United States contributions to UNRWA.
(4)
A description of any desired reforms the Administration has submitted to or requested from the United Nations or United Nations agencies that UNRWA undertake as a condition for future funding.
(5)
The national security impact of changes to United States funding to UNRWA.
(c)
Form
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
