1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Access to Networks in Disasters Act
.
2.
Study on network resiliency
Not later than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to Congress, and make publically available on the Commission’s website, a study on the public safety benefits and technical feasibility and cost of—
(1)
making telecommunications service provider-owned WiFi access points, and other communications technologies operating on unlicensed spectrum, available to the general public for access to 9–1–1 services, without requiring any login credentials, during times of emergency when mobile service is unavailable;
(2)
the provision by non-telecommunications service provider-owned WiFi access points of public access to 9–1–1 services during times of emergency when mobile service is unavailable; and
(3)
other alternative means of providing the public with access to 9–1–1 services during times of emergency when mobile service is unavailable.
3.
Access to essential service providers during federally declared emergencies
Section 427(a)(1)(A) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5189e(a)(1)(A)
) is amended by striking
telecommunications service
and inserting
wireline or mobile telephone service, Internet access service, radio or television broadcasting, cable service, or direct broadcast satellite service
.
4.
Definitions
As used in this Act—
(1)
the term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission;
(2)
the term
mobile service
means commercial mobile service (as defined in section 332 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 332
)) or commercial mobile data service (as defined in section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1401
));
(3)
the term
WiFi access point
means wireless Internet access using the standard designated as 802.11 or any variant thereof; and
(4)
the term
times of emergency
means either an emergency as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
), or an emergency as declared by the governor of a State or territory of the United States.
