1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Youth Opioid Use Treatment Help Act of 2017
or the
YOUTH Act
.
2.
Reauthorization of substance abuse treatment services for children, adolescents, and young adults
Section 514 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–7
) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
children and adolescents
and inserting
children, adolescents, and young adults
;
(2)
in subsection (a)(2), by striking
children, including
and inserting
children, adolescents, and young adults, including
; and
(3)
by striking
children and adolescents
each place it appears and inserting
children, adolescents, and young adults
.
3.
Access to medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults demonstration program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (in this section referred to as the
Director
), shall award grants to eligible entities to establish demonstration programs to—
(1)
expand access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders among adolescents and young adults;
(2)
identify and test solutions for overcoming barriers to implementation of medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults; or
(3)
create and distribute resources on medication-assisted treatment training and implementation for providers of health care to children, adolescents, and young adults.
(b)
Eligible entities
To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), an entity shall—
(1)
be a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization, professional family medicine provider organization, professional pediatric provider organization or other organization representing providers of health care to children, adolescents, and young adults, professional addiction medicine provider organization, hospital, an institution of higher education, or other appropriate public or nonprofit institution; and
(2)
certify that it is in compliance with all applicable registration and licensing requirements.
(c)
Application
To seek a grant under this section, an entity shall submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
(d)
Duration
An eligible entity may receive funds under this section to carry out a demonstration program described in this section for a period of not greater than 3 years. After the first year for which funding is provided to an eligible entity for a demonstration program, funding may be provided under this section for a subsequent year for such program only upon review of such program by the Director and approval by the Director of such subsequent year of funding.
(e)
Reports
(1)
By grant recipients
Each eligible entity awarded a grant under this section for a demonstration program shall submit to the Director progress reports on such demonstration program at such times, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
(2)
By Director
Not later than one year after the date on which all demonstration programs funded under this section have been completed, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that—
(A)
describes the availability of medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults with opioid use disorders in the United States, including barriers to such treatment;
(B)
describes the specific demonstration programs carried out pursuant to this section;
(C)
evaluates the effectiveness of such programs;
(D)
evaluates any unintended consequences of such programs; and
(E)
provides recommendations for ensuring that medication-assisted treatment is accessible to adolescents and young adults with opioid use disorders.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The phrase
adolescents and young adults
means individuals who have attained 10 years of age and not yet attained 26 years of age.
(2)
The term
medication-assisted treatment
means the combination of pharmacological treatments approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and counseling and behavioral therapies, for the treatment of substance use disorders.
(3)
The term
opioid use disorder
means a problematic pattern of opioid use leading to clinically significant impairment or distress occurring within a 12-month period.
(4)
The term
pediatric health care provider
means a provider of health care to individuals who have attained 10 years of age and not yet attained 26 years of age.
(5)
The term
professional family medicine provider organization
means a national organization whose members consist primarily of family medicine providers.
(6)
The term
professional pediatric provider organization
means a national organization whose members consist primarily of pediatric health care providers.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out this section.
