1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cyber Ready Workforce Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
According to Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce, by 2020, the United States is projected to experience a shortage of 5,000,000 workers with postsecondary education or training, including vocational certificates and apprenticeship training.
(2)
Registered apprenticeships strengthen the Nation’s economy, create pathways to good-paying careers, and help meet the Nation’s current workforce demands.
(3)
Apprenticeships can help fill the Nation’s workforce needs, including in fields not traditionally linked to apprenticeships, such as cybersecurity.
(4)
The cybersecurity field has a severe shortage in talent, with over 300,000 job openings today, according to CyberSeek, an interactive cybersecurity jobs heat map funded by the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
(5)
Employers, especially in cybersecurity and information technology fields, may be unfamiliar with the apprenticeship model or do not have the capacity or resources to develop and implement their own training.
3.
Definitions
In this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1)
The term
registered apprenticeship program
means a program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.).
(2)
The term
workforce intermediary
means an entity that—
(A)
facilitates the establishment of registered apprenticeship programs; and
(B)
may be a partnership that includes one or more of the following as partners:
(i)
A business or industry organization.
(ii)
A community-based organization, as defined in section 3201(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(iii)
State workforce development board or local workforce development board, as defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
).
(iv)
A postsecondary education institution with experience in developing and administering registered apprenticeship programs.
(v)
A joint labor-management partnership.
(vi)
An institution of higher education, as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
).
(vii)
A nonprofit organization.
4.
Cybersecurity apprenticeship grant program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Labor shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to workforce intermediaries, to support the creation, implementation, and expansion of registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity.
(b)
Description of programs eligible
Registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity shall include technical instruction, workplace training, and industry-recognized certification in cybersecurity. Programs shall—
(1)
include certifications in CompTIA Network+, CompTIA A+ Hardware, CompTIA A+ Software, Security+, Microsoft Windows 10 Technician, Microsoft Certified System Administrator, Certified Network Defender, Certified Ethical Hacker, or other industry-recognized certification in cybersecurity;
(2)
encourage stackable and portable credentials; and
(3)
lead to occupations such as computer support specialists, cybersecurity support technicians, computer programmers, computer systems analysts, or security specialists.
5.
Use of funds
(a)
Required activities
A workforce intermediary receiving funds under this Act shall use at least 75 percent of the grant funds for the following:
(1)
Development and technical support
Complete the apprenticeship registration process with the Department of Labor, and help employers with other logistical and technical issues.
(2)
Employer partnership
(A)
Develop curricula and technical instruction for the registered apprenticeship program in cooperation with local businesses, organizations, and employer-partners, referencing the work roles and tasks outlined in the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework Special Publication 800–181 to develop skills and standards for the program.
(B)
Assist employer in paying for the cost of offsite training provided to apprentices.
(C)
Connect the business with education and training providers to complement on-the-job learning.
(3)
Support services for apprentices
Provide support services to apprentices to assist with their success in the registered apprenticeship program, which may include the following:
(A)
Career counseling.
(B)
Mentorship.
(C)
Assisting with costs of transportation, housing, and child care services.
(b)
Allowable activities
A workforce intermediary receiving funds under this Act may use up to 25 percent of the grant funds for the following outreach and marketing:
(1)
Market apprenticeships and the apprenticeship model to employers, secondary school administrators, and counselors.
(2)
Recruit and conduct outreach to potential apprentices, including secondary school students, underrepresented populations (such as women and minorities), youth, and veterans.
