1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping America Re-Develop High-Quality Accessible Training Act
or the
HARD HAT Act
.
2.
Registered apprenticeship program requirement for certain contractors
(a)
Registered apprenticeship program requirement for certain contractors
(1)
In general
Chapter 63
of title 41, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
6310.
Registered apprenticeship program requirement for certain contractors
(a)
In general
An executive agency may not award a covered construction contract to a contractor, unless such contractor agrees to require at least 20 percent of the non-management employees of such contractor to complete, or be enrolled in, a registered apprenticeship program as of the date on which construction under the contract begins.
(b)
Consideration for future contracts
In the case of an executive agency that awards a covered construction contract to a contractor that makes the agreement described in subsection (a), such agency shall, to the extent practicable, take into consideration the percentage of non-management employees of such contractor that complete a registered apprenticeship program pursuant to the agreement described in such subsection before awarding any subsequent covered construction contract to such contractor.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered construction contract
The term
covered construction contract
—
(A)
means a contract in an amount exceeding $1,500,000 for —
(i)
the construction or resurfacing of highways, roads, streets, bridges, or railways; or
(ii)
the construction of—
(I)
tunnels or other subsurface structures;
(II)
sewage and waste facilities;
(III)
waste treatment and storage facilities; or
(IV)
public buildings (as defined in section 3301 of title 40); and
(B)
does not include any contract for construction or resurfacing outside the United States.
(2)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of title 40.
(3)
Registered apprenticeship program
The term
registered apprenticeship program
means a program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the National Apprenticeship Act; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.).
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
6310. Registered apprenticeship program requirement for certain contractors.
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall apply with respect to contracts awarded on or after the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
