1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Physician Assistant Education Public Health Initiatives Act of 2017
.
2.
Improvement activity credit for service as a clinical preceptor for physician assistant training
Section 1848(q)(2)(B)(iii) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(q)(2)(B)(iii)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subclause:
(VII)
The subcategory of workforce development, such as through service as a preceptor at a clinical training site for students training to become physician assistants.
.
3.
Reauthorization of primary care training and enhancement programs
Section 747(c) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 293k(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting after
2014
the following:
and each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
Fifteen
and inserting
At least 15
.
4.
Grants for research on physician assistant education
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide grants to eligible entities to fund eligible researchers to increase research on physician assistant education.
(b)
Application
An eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Condition of receipt
As a condition of receipt of a grant under this section, an entity shall each year award not fewer than eight eligible researchers funds to support physician assistant education research.
(d)
Report requirement
An entity receiving a grant under this section shall provide to the Secretary with respect to each year that such entity receives funds under this section a report on the activities conducted using such funds, including—
(1)
the number of researchers supported during such year by such entity using such funds;
(2)
a list of the researchers counted under paragraph (1), organized by researcher, including—
(A)
the institution such researcher is affiliated with; and
(B)
the research topic of such researcher;
(3)
citations to published clinical and scientific research by researchers described in paragraph (1) that is attributable to support under this section;
(4)
an evaluation of the benefits of grants under this section; and
(5)
any other information the Secretary may request.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means an organization that—
(A)
is a nonprofit organization; and
(B)
has demonstrated expertise in physician assistant education and faculty development.
(2)
Eligible researcher
The term
eligible researcher
means, with respect to an eligible entity, a researcher that—
(A)
has demonstrated expertise in physician assistant education and faculty development; and
(B)
at such time and in such manner as such entity may require, provides such entity with a research proposal on improving physician assistant education and faculty development.
(3)
Physician assistant education
The term
physician assistant education
means selecting, educating, and graduating students in accredited graduate physician assistant educational programs.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
