1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Methane Emissions Mitigation Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds that—
(1)
methane is a valuable, energy-dense fuel source composing the majority of natural gas;
(2)
in 2014, the United States lost more than 9.8 million metric tons of natural gas, worth almost $2 billion, through methane leaks and intentional releases throughout the oil and gas system;
(3)
the comparative impact of methane on climate change is more than 25 times greater than carbon dioxide over a 100-year period, and more than 80 time greater over a 20 year period; and
(4)
identifying and eliminating leaks is a necessary step in fighting climate change, and additional research is necessary to further commercialize leak detection and mitigation technologies.
3.
Methane leak detection and mitigation research
(a)
Requirement
The Secretary of Energy shall carry out a program of research and development in methane leak detection and mitigation.
(b)
Program goal
The Secretary shall set a goal of developing a variety of technologies that—
(1)
enable United States natural gas operations to eliminate methane leaks by fiscal year 2025; and
(2)
cost less to purchase and operate than the market value of the gas that would have leaked but for such technologies.
4.
Technology demonstration prize competition
The Secretary of Energy shall carry out a methane leak detection and mitigation technology demonstration prize competition under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3719
).
5.
Technology clearinghouse program
(a)
Establishment of program
The Secretary of Energy shall establish and promote a program to encourage technological innovation in development and commercialization of methane leak detection and mitigation technology.
(b)
Elements of program
The program described in subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
the establishment of a centralized Federal clearinghouse for public access to information relating to technologies and best practices for methane leak detection and mitigation;
(2)
the issuance of announcements seeking unique and innovative technologies to advance the mission of the Department under this Act; and
(3)
the provision of information for persons seeking guidance on how to pursue proposals to develop or deploy technologies that would reduce methane emissions, including information relating to industry technology acquisition practices.
(c)
Coordination
In carrying out this section, the Secretary’s designated officers shall coordinate with the Department of Energy’s Office of Technology Transitions.
6.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out this Act $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2025.
