1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
21st Century Investment Act of 2017
.
2.
Increase in research credit for contracted research with United States businesses
(a)
In general
Section 41
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by section 2 of this Act, is amended by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection:
(i)
Special rule for contracted research with United States manufacturing business
(1)
In general
If the taxpayer elects the application of this subsection, subsection (a)(1) shall be applied by substituting
25 percent
for
20 percent
with respect to qualified United States research expenses.
(2)
Qualified United States research expenses
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified United States research expenses
means any amount paid or incurred by the taxpayer to any person (other than an employee of the taxpayer) for qualified research, substantially all of which occurs in the United States.
(3)
Separate application of section
In the case of any election of the application of this subsection, this section shall be applied separately with respect to qualified United States research expenses.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred for taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
3.
Increase in domestic production activities deduction for manufactured property researched and developed in United States
(a)
In general
Section 199(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11) and by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraph:
(10)
Special rule for certain manufacturing
(A)
In general
In the case of qualified production activities income attributable to the manufacture or production of qualifying production property substantially all of the research and development of which occurred in the United States, subsection (a) shall be applied by substituting
15 percent
for
9 percent
.
(B)
Special rule when taxable income used to determine deduction
In the case of any taxable year for which the taxpayer’s qualified production activities income exceeds the taxpayer’s taxable income (determined without regard to this section), the amount of taxable income to which the 15 percent amount in subparagraph (A) applies under subsection (a)(1) shall be an amount equal to the amount which bears the same ratio to such taxable income (as so determined) as—
(i)
the amount of qualified production activities income of the taxpayer for the taxable year which is attributable to the manufacture or production of qualifying production property substantially all of the research and development with respect to which occurred in the United States, bears to
(ii)
all qualified production activities income of the taxpayer for the taxable year.
(C)
Termination
This paragraph shall not apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
