REGULATION NO. 6

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, approved April 8, 1935 (Public Resolution No. 11, 74th Congress), I hereby prescribe the following rules and regulations relating to unattached workers:

1.

Definitions

. The term "project", as used herein, means a project (

a

) which is financed in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, and (

b

) to which is applicable the schedule of monthly earnings set forth in Part I of Regulation No. 1, prescribing rules and regulations relating to wages, hours of work, and conditions of employment under the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935 (Executive Order No. 7046 of May 20, 1935, and amendments thereto).

The term "subsistence", as used herein, means board, lodging, and any other services, facilities, or equipment furnished to unattached workers as defined by the Works Progress Administrator.

2.

Wages

. The Administrator of the Works Progress Administration, or representatives designated by him, may, in their discretion, (

a

) exempt from the said schedule of monthly earnings any project, portion of a project, or class of work upon a project, with respect to unattached workers, who are furnished subsistence in a camp operated under the supervision of an agency of the Federal Government, and (

b

) provide that, in lieu of such monthly earnings, such unattached workers shall, in addition to their subsistence, be paid monthly earnings not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month.

The foregoing exemption shall not be made where to do so would involve the application of different wage scales among workers employed at one location at the same class of work.

3. Except as herein otherwise provided, the provisions of the said Regulation No. 1 (including the provisions with respect to credits and deductions for time lost) shall be applicable to the employment of unattached workers.
