Amendment to Regulation No. 1

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, approved April 8, 1935 (Public Resolution No. 11, 74th Congress), I hereby amend Regulation No. 1, prescribed in Executive Order No. 7046 of May 20, 1935, as follows:

Strike out all of that paragraph of Part I of said Regulation No. l which reads as follows:

"Monthly earnings applicable to a city should in general apply also to contiguous urban areas, even though such urban areas are not in the same county. Monthly earnings applicable to the largest municipality in a county should in general apply also to the remainder of the county in which the municipality is located, but need not necessarily so apply in event that local circumstances warrant a different rate of earnings. If the territory covered by the operation of any individual project involves the application of more then one schedule of monthly earnings, the schedule of monthly earnings for any class of work on the project should be the higher schedule involved. In order to allow for these and any other adjustments, the Works Progress Administrator or his representative may adjust the rate of earnings for any class of work in a locality by not more then 10 per cent from the monthly earnings shown in the foregoing schedule."

and insert in lieu thereof the following:

"The foregoing monthly earnings schedule is subject to the following adjustments:

"(a) The Works Progress Administrator, or representatives designated by him, may redefine any of the regions defined in the foregoing schedule whenever be or they find that it is necessary to do so in order to avoid undue inequality among workers accustomed to similarity of wage rates.

"(b) Monthly earnings applicable to an urban area within a county shall, in general, apply to contiguous urban areas in adjacent counties in the some region.

"(c) If the territory covered by the operation of any individual project involves the application of more then one schedule of monthly earnings the schedule of monthly earnings for any class of work on the project shall be the highest applicable schedule.

"(d) In order to adjust the monthly rate of earnings to local conditions and to avoid inequality among workers or classes of workers in the sane region the Works Progress Administrator, or representatives designated by him; may adjust the rate of earnings for any class of work on any project by not more than ten percent above or below the monthly earnings shown in the foregoing schedule, or as adjusted pursuant to clauses (a), (b), and (c) of this paragraph. "
