1.
The Congress shall have power to prohibit,
limit, and otherwise regulate the contribution of funds or donation of in-kind
equivalents to candidates standing for election to a Federal office in the
United States and to prohibit, limit, and otherwise regulate the expenditure of
funds or donation of in-kind equivalents used to support or purchase media
advertisements intended to influence the outcome of an election for Federal
office in the United States.
Whenever Congress should exercise such power, it must
apply equally and uniformly to all individual persons recognized as citizens of
the United States.
Whenever Congress should exercise such power on
associations of citizens of the United States, it must apply equally and
uniformly to all associations of citizens of the United States.
2.
Each of the several States shall have power
to prohibit, limit, and otherwise regulate the contribution of funds or
donation of in-kind equivalents to candidates standing for election to public
office in the State and to prohibit, limit, and otherwise regulate expenditure
of funds or donation of in-kind equivalents used to support or purchase media
advertisements intended to influence the outcome of an election for public
office or plebiscite in the State.
Whenever a State should exercise such power, it must
apply equally and uniformly to all individual persons recognized as citizens of
the State.
Whenever a State should exercise such power on
associations of citizens of the State, it must apply equally and uniformly to
all associations of citizens of the State.
3.
A person who is not a citizen of the United
States, including an association of persons who are not citizens of the United
States, a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent thereof, may not
contribute funds or donate in-kind equivalents to candidates standing for
election to public office in the United States or otherwise expend funds or
donate in-kind equivalents in a manner intended to influence the outcome of an
election for public office or plebiscite in the United States.
4.
The powers provided by this article are
limited to the content neutral regulation of political contributions and
political expenditures.
5.
Congress shall have the power to enforce
this article by appropriate
legislation.
.
