SECTION 1. Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein,   is designated and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 6 (c) of   of   (hereinafter referred to as the Act) to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of section 6 of the Act and to protect the retirement, insurance, and other civil-service rights and privileges of any   employee, Presidential appointee, or elected officer who enters the employ of   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) pursuant to the provisions of section 6 of the Act.

 . 2. Consistent with the provisions of section 6 of the Act and this order, and to the extent provided in regulations prescribed pursuant to section 1 of this order, a   employee, a   appointee, or an elected officer who enters the employ of the   pursuant to section 6 of the Act after  , shall be entitled to the protection and benefit of the rights and privileges specified in the Act and of such other civil-service rights and privileges to which he would have been entitled had he continued his employment in his position in the Federal service.

 . 3. The regulations prescribed pursuant to section 1 of this order shall provide for the following protections and benefits:

(a) The retention by a   employee of coverage and all rights and benefits under  , as amended, and   of  , as amended, during the re-employment period in which the employee is properly exercising or could exercise the re-employment right provided by section 6 (a) of the Act. During such reemployment period, the employee shall be considered as on leave without pay for retirement and insurance purposes: Provided, that nothing in this subsection shall preclude the vesting of retirement or insurance coverage for a   employee, a   appointee, or an elected officer in the event of his death during   of his employment with the   or, in the case of a   employee, during the re-employment period referred to in this subsection.

(b) The entitlement of a   employee to the rate of basic compensation to which he would have been entitled had he remained in the Federal service when he is re-employed pursuant to section 6 (a) of the Act, and the entitlement of a   appointee or an elected officer to such rate of basic compensation when he is re-employed in the   position which he left or one of like seniority, status, and pay within   from the date of his separation from the   following a term of employment not extending beyond the first   from the date of his entering the employ of the  .

(c) The entitlement of a   employee upon re-employment as prescribed in subsection (b) of this section, or of a   appointee or an elected officer who is re-employed within   from the date of his separation from the   following a term of employment not extending beyond the first   from the date of his entering the employ of the  , to service credit for all appropriate civil-service purposes for the period commencing with his separation from his Federal position and ending with the termination of his service with the  , and, in the case of a   employee, for the additional period between the termination of his service with the   and his re-employment.

(d) The restoration of the sick-leave account of a   employee, a   appointee, or an elected officer to its status at the time he left the Federal service if he is re-employed as prescribed in subsection (c) of this section.

(e) The right of appeal to   by any   employee who enters the employ of the   pursuant to section 6 (a) of the Act and who is denied re-employment. The decision of the   on the appeal shall be final, and the department or agency concerned shall take the action necessary to effectuate the decision of the  .

 . 4. Regulations prescribed pursuant to section 1 of this order need not be limited in their coverage and application to the protections and benefits set forth herein.

 . 5. Prior to the re-employment of a   employee pursuant to section 6 (a) of the Act and during the employment of a   appointee or an elected officer pursuant to section 6 (b) of the Act, all computations under section 6 of the Act, this order, or regulations prescribed pursuant to section 1 of this order shall be made in the same manner as they would have been if the rate of basic compensation received by the   employee, Presidential appointee, or elected officer concerned on   of his Federal service had continued without change.
