SECTION 1. Establishment of Council.

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of the following-designated members: (1) the Special Assistant to the President for  , (2) one representative of each of the following-named departments, who shall be designated by the Secretary of the   concerned and shall be an official of the   policy rank:  ,  , and  , and  , (3) the Director of  , (4) the Administrator of  , and (5) a representative of  , who shall be the Chairman of the   or another member of the   designated by the Chairman. A representative of the Secretary of   designated by the Secretary and a representative of the Director of   designated by the Director may attend meetings of the   as observers.

(c) The Chairman of the   (hereinafter referred to as the Chairman) shall be designated by the President from time to time from among the members thereof. The Chairman may make provision for another member of the  , with the consent of such member, to act temporarily as Chairman.

(d) The Chairman (1) may request the head of any Federal agency not named in section 2(b) of this order to designate a representative to participate in meetings or parts of meetings of the   concerned with matters of substantial interest to the agency, and (2) may invite other persons to attend meetings of the  .

(e) The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

 . 2.  . (a) The   shall consider problems and developments in the fields of science and technology and related activities affecting more than one Federal agency or concerning the overall advancement of the  's science and technology, and shall recommend policies and other measures (1) to provide more effective planning and administration of Federal scientific and technological programs, (2) to identify research needs including areas of research requiring additional emphasis, (3) to achieve more effective utilization of the scientific and technological resources and facilities of Federal agencies, including the elimination of unnecessary duplication, and (4) to further international cooperation in science and technology. In developing such policies and measures the  , after consulting, when considered appropriate by the Chairman,  , the President's  , and other organizations, shall consider (i) the effects of Federal research and development policies and programs on non-Federal programs and institutions, (ii) long-range program plans designed to meet the scientific and technological needs of  , including manpower and capital requirements, and (iii) the effects of non-Federal programs in science and technology upon Federal research and development policies and programs.

(b) The   shall consider and recommend measures for the effective implementation of Federal policies concerning the administration and conduct of Federal programs in science and technology.

(c) The   shall perform such other related duties as shall be assigned, consonant with law, by the President or by the Chairman.

(d) The Chairman shall, from time to time, submit to the President such of the  's recommendations or reports as require the attention of the President by reason of their importance or character.

 . 3. Agency assistance to  . (a) For the purpose of effectuating this order, each Federal agency represented on the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in consonance with section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include (1) detailing employees to the   to perform such functions, consistent with the purposes of this order, as the Chairman may assign to them, and (2) undertaking, upon request of the Chairman, such special studies for the   as come within the functions herein assigned to the  .

(b) Upon request of the Chairman, the heads of Federal agencies shall, so far as practicable, provide the   with information and reports relating to the scientific and technological activities of the respective agencies.

 . 4. Standing committees and panels. For the purpose of conducting studies and making reports as directed by the Chairman, standing committees and panels of the   may be established in consonance with the provisions of section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). At least one such standing committee shall be composed of scientist-administrators representing Federal agencies, shall provide a forum for consideration of common administrative policies and procedures relating to Federal research and development activities and for formulation of recommendations thereon, and shall perform such other related functions as may be assigned to it by the Chairman of the  .

 . 5. Security procedures. The Chairman shall establish procedures to insure the security of classified information used by or in the custody of the   or employees under its jurisdiction.

 . 6. Other orders; construction of orders. (a) Executive Order No. 9912' of  , entitled "Establishing the Interdepartmental Committee on Scientific Research and Development," is hereby revoked.

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "  by Agencies of  ," is hereby amended:

(1) By substituting for section 1 thereof the following:

"SECTION 1.   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) shall from time to time recommend to the President policies for the promotion and support of basic research and education in the sciences, including policies with respect to furnishing guidance toward defining the responsibilities of   in the conduct and support of basic scientific research."

(2) By inserting before the words "scientific research programs and activities" in section 3 thereof the word "basic".

(3) (i) By adding the word "and" at the end of paragraph (a) of section 8 thereof, (ii) by deleting the semicolon and the word "and" at the end of paragraph (b) of section 8 and inserting in lieu thereof a period, and (iii) by revoking paragraph (c) of section 8.

(4) By adding at the end of the order a new section 10 reading as follows:

" . 10.   shall provide leadership in the effective coordination of the scientific information activities of   with a view to improving the availability and dissemination of scientific information. Federal agencies shall cooperate with and assist   in the performance of this function, to the extent permitted by law."

(c) The provisions of Executive Order No.  , as hereby amended, shall not limit the functions of the   under this order. The provisions of this order shall not limit the functions of any Federal agency or officer under Executive Order No.  , as hereby amended.

(d) The   shall be advisory to the President and to the heads of Federal agencies represented on the  ; accordingly, this order shall not be construed as subjecting any agency, officer, or function to control by the  .
