SECTION 1. Civil Service Rule VI, as established by Executive Order No.   of  , and as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby further amended to read as follows:

RULE VI—EXCEPTIONS FROM THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE

§ 6.1 Authority to except positions from the competitive service, (a) The   is authorized to except from the competitive service and to place in appropriate schedules positions to which appointments through competitive examination are not practicable and, upon the recommendation of the agency concerned, positions which are of a confidential or policy-determining character. Such exceptions from the competitive service shall be effective upon publication thereof in  . Positions excepted by the   shall be listed in the  's   report for   in which the exceptions are made.

(b) The   shall decide whether the duties of any particular position are such that it may be classified as an excepted position.

§ 6.2 Classes of excepted positions. The   shall classify positions that it excepts as follows:

  other than those of a confidential or policy-determining character for which it is not practicable to examine shall be placed in  Schedule B. Positions other than those of a confidential or policy-determining character for which it is not practicable to hold a competitive examination shall be placed in   to these positions shall be subject to such noncompetitive examination as may be prescribed by the  .

  of a confidential or policy-determining character shall be placed in   6.3 Status of incumbents of excepted positions. Persons given excepted appointments to positions listed in  , B, and C or to positions excepted from the competitive service by statute shall not acquire a competitive status by reason of such appointments. Persons appointed to such positions in the same manner as competitive positions are filled may acquire a competitive status In accordance with  .

§ 6.4 Removal of incumbents of excepted positions. Except as may be required by the  ' Preference Act,   shall not apply to removals from positions listed in   or from positions excepted from the competitive service by statute.   shall apply to removals from positions listed in   and B of persons who have competitive status, however they may have been or may be appointed.

§ 6.5 Assignment of excepted employees. Persons who are appointed to excepted positions without competitive examination shall not be assigned to the work of a position in the competitive service without prior approval of the  .

§ 6.6 Revocation of exceptions. The   may remove any position from or may revoke in whole or in part any provision of Schedule A or B, and, with the concurrence of the agency concerned, may remove any position from or may revoke in whole or In part any provision of   Such changes shall become effective upon publication thereof in  .

 . 2. The   shall classify the positions now listed in   and B into Schedules A, B, and C as provided in this order. The positions in   and B as presently constituted shall continue therein until the   has taken action with respect to such positions under this order.
