1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Growing Small Businesses Act of 2014
.
2.
Performance measures for entrepreneurial training
(a)
In general
Section 136(i) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (
29 U.S.C. 2871(i)
) is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Entrepreneurship metric
The Secretary shall develop separate performance measures for individuals who receive
entrepreneurial training as a part of any workforce investment activity
funded under this subtitle.
.
(b)
Rulemaking
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall
initiate a rulemaking process to develop the performance measures
described in section 136(i)(4) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29
U.S.C. 2871(i)(4)).
3.
Requirements for providers of workforce investment activities that offer entrepreneurial training
Section 134(d)(4) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (
29 U.S.C. 2864(d)(4)
) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(H)
Requirements for providers of entrepreneurial training services
(i)
In general
A provider of training services that offers entrepreneurial training services under this paragraph
shall—
(I)
use intake tools that assess an individual’s suitability for referral to entrepreneurial training
services;
(II)
submit a report to the local workforce investment board that includes the number of individuals who
express interest in self-employment or starting a business and enroll
entrepreneurial training services; and
(III)
develop partnerships with microbusiness development organizations that have demonstrated capacity
to provide education, training, counseling, and coaching focused on
helping new and low and moderate income entrepreneurs succeed.
(ii)
Definitions
In this subparagraph—
(I)
the term
microbusiness development organization
means a nonprofit entity or a program administered by such an entity that provides services to
disadvantaged or prospective entrepreneurs; and
(II)
the term
low and moderate income entrepreneur
means an entrepreneur located in a HUBZone (as defined in section 3(p) of the Small Business Act
(
15 U.S.C. 632(p)
)), an Urban Empowerment Zone or Urban Enterprise
Community (as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development), a Rural Empowerment Zone or Rural Enterprise Community
(as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture), an area
of Low Income or Moderate Income (as recognized by the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council), or a county with Persistent Poverty (as
classified by the Economic Research Service of the Department of
Agriculture).
.
