1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Expansion Incentive Act of
2013
.
2.
Redistribution of
Federal Medicaid funds to States electing to meet ACA Medicaid expansion
requirements from States not so electing
(a)
In
general
Section 1903 of the
Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396b
) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
(aa)
Bonus for
States electing To meet ACA Medicaid expansion requirements from funds made
available by other States not electing To meet those requirements
(1)
In
general
In the case of a
participating State for a fiscal year as determined under paragraph (2), in
accordance with regulations of the Secretary, the State shall be entitled to an
increase in payments under its State plan under this title in an amount
determined under paragraph (3) of the Secretary’s estimate of the net reduction
in Federal expenditures for nonparticipating States (including the amount of
the additional Federal financial participation under this title that otherwise
would have been paid to such States if they were participating States) during
the fiscal year as a result of such States not applying the ACA Medicaid
expansion requirements.
(2)
Notice regarding
participation
(A)
In
general
Before the beginning of each fiscal year (beginning with
fiscal year 2014) each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia is
requested to inform the Secretary, in a form and manner specified by the
Secretary and accompanied by such assurances regarding State plan amendments as
the Secretary may specify, if the State will be applying its State plan under
this title for such fiscal year in accordance with the requirements specified
in the amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2001(a) of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (in this subsection referred to as
the
ACA Medicaid expansion requirements
), which include
requirements described in—
(i)
section
1902(a)(10)(A)(I)(VIII); and
(ii)
section
1902(k).
The
Secretary shall not accept information submitted under this subparagraph for a
fiscal year after the beginning of the fiscal year involved.
(B)
Determination of
participating and nonparticipating States
Taking into account the
information submitted under subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year, the Secretary
shall determine for the fiscal year which of the 50 States and the District of
Columbia will be applying the ACA Medicaid expansion requirements for the
fiscal year and which will not. For purposes of this subsection—
(i)
each State or District determined to be
applying such requirements for a fiscal year is referred to as a
participating State
for such fiscal year; and
(ii)
each State or District determined not to be
applying such requirements for a fiscal year is referred to as a
nonparticipating State
for such fiscal year.
(3)
Amount of
increase
The Secretary shall
compute the increase in payments under this subsection for a participating
State for a fiscal year, to the extent of available funds, in accordance with a
formula specified by the Secretary. Within the amount of available funds, such
formula may take into account elements such as—
(A)
increasing to 100
percent the FMAP for newly eligible mandatory individuals;
(B)
increasing the matching percentage for
administrative costs attributable to application of ACA Medicaid expansion
requirements; and
(C)
an increase in DSH
allotments.
(4)
Publication of
information on estimated impact of nonparticipation
The Secretary
shall publish for each nonparticipating State for each fiscal year—
(A)
the amount of the
additional Federal funds under this title for the fiscal year that the
Secretary estimates the State has forgone as a result of its not being a
participating State for such fiscal year; and
(B)
the number of
additional beneficiaries that would have been covered under the State plan
under this title in the fiscal year if the State had been a participating State
for the fiscal
year.
.
