1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States-Caribbean Partnership Act of 2014
.
2.
Definition
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate.
3.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
While often overlooked, the countries of the Caribbean are important United States partners.
(2)
United States-Caribbean cooperation on commerce, security, and energy must be deepened.
(3)
The countries of the Caribbean are key voting members of the Organization of American States.
(4)
There are five countries in the Caribbean with which the United States has diplomatic relations,
but within which the United States does not have a permanent diplomatic
presence. Those countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, St. Kitts and
Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
(5)
Diplomatic relations with these five countries are conducted through the United States Embassy in
Bridgetown, Barbados.
(6)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, citizens of these
five countries are required to travel to Barbados for all consular
services.
(7)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, in order to meet
with local officials, civil society representatives, private sector
leaders, United States citizens or others, embassy officials must fly from
Barbados to these countries on what are often expensive, sometimes
infrequent flights and remain overnight in what are often expensive hotel
rooms.
(8)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, United States
citizens living in and visiting these five countries do not have full
consular services, and in the event of a consular emergency, air traffic
could be shut off to any of these islands, in effect stranding United
States citizens without full in-country consular services.
(9)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, key events,
meetings, ceremonies, and other opportunities are often not attended by
United States officials as they are in other countries where there is a
permanent diplomatic presence.
(10)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, it is more
difficult for United States diplomats to establish close working
relationships with local officials, civil society representatives, and
others.
(11)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, United States
official diplomatic interaction with these countries, including delivery
of demarches and other diplomatic messages, which the Secretary of State
sometimes requires embassy officials to personally deliver, particularly
if of a confidential nature, is often relegated to telephone, facsimile,
or email, dramatically reducing the ability of the United States to engage
host governments in substantive dialogue.
(12)
Due to the lack of presence of United States diplomats in these five countries, it is more
difficult for the United States to conduct public diplomacy in these five
countries.
4.
Establishment of United States embassies with consular services in Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica,
St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Not later than five years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall
establish United States embassies with consular services in Antigua and
Barbuda, Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines to—
(1)
provide consular services to citizens of these countries and United States citizens living in or
traveling to these countries; and
(2)
engage in direct diplomacy with appropriate government counterparts in these countries.
5.
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter until
the requirements under section 4 have been satisfied, the Secretary of
State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on
the progress made toward carrying out such section.
6.
Exception for delay
The Secretary of State may delay for up to one year the carrying out of section 4 if the Secretary
determines that more time is needed to carry out such section and submits
to the appropriate congressional committees a report explaining the reason
for such delay.
7.
Limitation on additional funding
To carry out this Act, the Secretary of State may use only amounts that are available from the
Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance account and the Diplomatic
and Consular Programs account of the Department of State for such purpose.
