1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emergency Iron Dome Replenishment Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Since June 12, 2014, the foreign terrorist organization Hamas and other Palestinian extremists have
been launching dozens of rockets per day at the State of Israel.
(2)
Hamas possesses approximately 12,000 missiles of assorted ranges that could threaten approximately
40 percent of the Israeli population.
(3)
Iran has supplied Hamas and other Palestinian extremists with long-range missiles, capable of
hitting Israeli population centers 100 miles away.
(4)
Hamas rockets are either unguided or have inaccurate guidance systems, making them true weapons of
terror designed only to kill people at random.
(5)
Hamas has admitted targeting Israel’s nuclear research reactor at Dimona.
(6)
The use of rockets by Hamas against Israeli population centers has been called a war crime.
(7)
In March 2014, Israel intercepted the ship Klos-C, which was carrying dozens of long-range rockets,
reportedly from Iran to Hamas.
(8)
The United States remains committed to Israel’s qualitative military edge, including its advantage
over Hamas and other foreign terrorist organizations.
(9)
The Israeli Defense Forces report that the Iron Dome anti-missile defense system has achieved a
success rate of 90 percent, intercepting rockets bound for civilian
population centers, including residential neighborhoods, busy road
junctions, shopping centers, and crowded streets.
(10)
The recent success of the Iron Dome anti-missile defense system averted massive Israeli casualties.
(11)
Supporting Israel’s ability to defend itself against missiles, rockets, and other threats advances
the United States own vital national security interests and the cause of
Middle Eastern peace and stability.
(12)
The White House said on July 8, 2014,
No country can accept rocket fire aimed at civilians and we support Israel’s right to defend itself
against these vicious attacks.
.
(13)
In 2012, President Obama called Iron Dome
critical in terms of providing security and safety for Israeli families. It is a program that has
been tested and has prevented missile strikes inside of Israel.
.
3.
Authorization of assistance to Israel for Iron Dome anti-missile defense system
The President, acting through the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, is authorized to
provide assistance, upon request by the Government of Israel, for the
procurement, maintenance, and sustainment of the Iron Dome anti-missile
defense system for purposes of intercepting short-range missiles launched
against Israel.
