1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Chiropractic Membership in the Public
Health Service Commissioned Corps Act of 2013
.
2.
Doctors of
Chiropractic in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps
(a)
Appointment of
personnel
Section 207(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 209(a)(1)) is amended by inserting
chiropractic,
after
nursing,
.
(b)
Authorization of
appointment of Doctors of Chiropractic
Section 207 of the Public
Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 209
) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
(j)
Appointment of
Doctors of Chiropractic
Doctors of Chiropractic who are graduates
of colleges of chiropractic whose graduates are eligible for licensure to
practice chiropractic in a majority of the States of the United States, or
approved by a body or bodies acceptable to the Secretary, shall be eligible for
appointment as officers in the commissioned Regular Corps and the Ready Reserve
Corps of the Public Health Service. The Secretary and the Surgeon General shall
ensure that such Doctors of Chiropractic are trained, equipped, and otherwise
prepared to fulfill applicable public health and emergency response service
responsibilities in the Commissioned
Corps.
.
(c)
Required
placement of Doctors of Chiropractic into Public Health Service Commissioned
Corps
(1)
In
general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the President, in consultation with the Surgeon General and the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall commence the appointment of no
fewer than 6 Doctors of Chiropractic into the commissioned Regular Corps and
the Ready Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
(2)
Reports
The
Surgeon General shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Health Education Labor and
Pensions of the Senate quarterly reports on all measures taken by the
President, the Surgeon General, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to carry out the provisions of this Act, including the amendments made by this
Act. The first such report shall be submitted not later than 120 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Authorization of
appropriations
Out of the
total aggregate appropriations made available to the Department of Health and
Human Services through annual appropriations Acts for fiscal years 2014, 2015,
2016, and 2017, $1,500,000 is authorized and shall be made available in each of
such fiscal years only for the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out
this Act.
