1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Closing the Digital Divide for Students Act of 2014
.
2.
Inclusion of high-speed Internet service in public housing utility allowances for certain families
Subsection (b) of section 3 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)
) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(14)
Utility allowance
A utility allowance under this Act for public housing shall include costs for high-speed Internet
service, subject to the following limitations:
(A)
Cost
The cost included in a utility allowance for a public housing dwelling unit pursuant to this
paragraph shall not—
(i)
exceed the lowest cost available in the area of such housing for such high-speed Internet service;
and
(ii)
include any costs for cable or satellite television service or for joint packages for Internet
service together with cable or satellite television service.
(B)
Qualified families
Costs for high-speed Internet service may be included in a utility allowance only for a household
that incurs such costs and includes children who qualify for free and
reduced price lunch pursuant to section 9 of the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1758
).
(C)
Protection of minors
Costs for high-speed Internet service may be included in a utility allowance for a household only
if the Internet service provider, upon initial provision of such service
for a household, provides the household with a specific technology capable
of blocking or filtering Internet access to visual depictions described in
section 254(h)(5)(B)(i) of the Communications Act of 1937 (47 U.S.C.
254(h)(5)(B)(i)) that provides a level of protection against access by
minors to such depictions through the Internet that is at least as great
as the level of protection provided by a technology protection measure (as
such term is defined in paragraph (7) of such section 254(h)) that meets
the requirements for certification under such paragraph, as determined by
the Secretary.
.
