1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fairness to Pet Owners Act of 2014
.
2.
Applicability
This Act shall only apply to medication for a domesticated household animal that the Federal
Government prevents consumers from purchasing without a prescription.
3.
Rules on veterinary prescriptions
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade Commission
shall promulgate rules in accordance with
section 553
of title 5, United
States Code, that include the following requirements with regard to a
veterinary prescription:
(1)
In general
A requirement that the prescriber of an animal drug shall—
(A)
whether or not requested by the pet owner, provide to the pet owner, before offering to fill or
dispensing, a veterinary prescription, a copy of the veterinary
prescription, including by electronic or other means; and
(B)
provide a copy of the prescription by electronic or other means consistent with applicable State
law, if requested by a pharmacy or any other person designated to act on
behalf of the pet owner.
(2)
Purchase, payment, and waiver
A requirement that the prescriber of an animal drug—
(A)
may not—
(i)
require purchase of the animal drug for which the veterinary prescription was written from the
prescriber or from another person as a condition of providing a copy of
the veterinary prescription or verifying such prescription under paragraph
(1);
(ii)
require payment in addition to, or as part of, the fee for an examination and evaluation as a
condition of providing a copy of the veterinary prescription or verifying
such prescription under paragraph (1); or
(iii)
require the pet owner to sign a waiver or disclaim liability, or deliver to the pet owner a notice
waiving or disclaiming liability of the prescriber for the accuracy of the
veterinary prescription, as a condition of providing a copy of such
prescription or verifying such prescription under paragraph (1); and
(B)
may require payment of fees for an examination and evaluation before providing a veterinary
prescription, but only if the prescriber requires immediate payment in the
case of an examination that reveals no requirement for an animal drug.
4.
Enforcement
A violation of a rule prescribed pursuant to section 3 of this Act shall be treated as a violation
of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed under
section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C.
57a(a)(1)(B)). The Federal Trade Commission shall enforce this Act in the
same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction as though
all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act
were incorporated into and made a part of this Act.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Animal drug
The term
animal drug
means a drug intended to be administered to an animal that may not be dispensed without a
prescription.
(2)
Domesticated household animal
The term
domesticated household animal
means a companion animal permitted under applicable State and local law to be kept in a home for
noncommercial purposes.
(3)
Pet owner
The term
pet owner
means the legal owner of a domesticated household animal or a person designated by such owner to
present such animal to the prescriber for care.
(4)
Prescriber
The term
prescriber
means a health care practitioner who is licensed to practice veterinary medicine or other person
permitted under State law to issue prescriptions for animal drugs.
(5)
Veterinary prescription
The term
veterinary prescription
—
(A)
means a written, oral, or electronic order from a prescriber authorizing the dispensing of an
animal drug for use by a domesticated household animal and normally
administered to the animal by its owner, issued in accordance with State
and Federal law; and
(B)
does not include an animal drug administered by the veterinarian in the course of providing acute
care.
