1.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Each year, in every corner of the Nation, the 850,000 men and women of emergency medical services
answer more than 30,000,000 calls to serve 22,000,000 patients in need of
pre-hospital care and comfort at a moment’s notice and without
reservation. This commitment to others exemplifies the highest traditions
of American spirit.
(2)
As an element of the emergency services sector, emergency medical services stands on the Nation’s
first line of defense in the prevention and mitigation of risk from
terrorist attacks, man-made incidents, and natural disasters. The men and
women of emergency medical services, serving in both the public and
private sectors as career and volunteer emergency medical service
providers, are a critical element of the Nation’s homeland and national
security efforts and provide for the domestic tranquility of its citizens.
(3)
Statistics compiled by the United States Department of Labor and the National Highway Safety
Administration indicate that emergency medical services providers die in
the line of duty at a rate more than twice the national average for all
occupational fatality and 7 times higher from violence than all other
health care workers in service to the Nation.
(4)
We as a Nation have historically and continually rely on the selfless and ultimate sacrifice made
by more than 600 members of the Nation’s emergency medical services, their
families, and loved ones in order to maintain the domestic tranquility,
safety, and security of this great Nation.
2.
Authorization to establish memorial
(a)
In general
The National Emergency Medical Services Memorial foundation may establish the National Emergency
Medical Services Memorial as a commemorative work on Federal land in the
District of Columbia to honor the commitment and ultimate sacrifice of
emergency medical service providers.
(b)
Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works
The memorial shall be established in accordance with
chapter 89
of title 40, United States Code.
(c)
Prohibition on the Use of Federal Funds
The United States shall not pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial.
(d)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
the term
memorial
means the memorial authorized to be established under subsection (a); and
(2)
the term
District of Columbia
has the meaning given to the term
District of Columbia and its environs
by
section 8902
of title 40, United States Code.
