1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strategic Response to Asian Carp
Invasion Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The rapid spread
of several invasive species of Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi River and
Ohio River basins and tributaries threatens ecosystems and billions of dollars
of economic activities connected to outdoor recreation in States throughout the
Midwest.
(2)
While Federal
efforts have focused on preventing the spread of Asian Carp into the Great
Lakes, there is growing recognition of the threat these invasive species pose
to other ecosystems in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins.
3.
Multiagency
effort to slow the spread of Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River
basins and tributaries
The
Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination with
the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the United States
Geological Survey, shall lead a multiagency effort to slow the spread of Asian
Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins and tributaries by
providing high-level technical assistance, coordination, best practices, and
support to State and local government strategies to slow, and eventually
eliminate, the threat posed by Asian Carp. To the maximum extent practicable,
the multiagency effort shall apply lessons learned and best practices such as
those developed under the Management and Control Plan for Bighead, Black,
Grass, and Silver Carps in the United States, November 2007 and the Asian Carp
Control Strategic Framework.
4.
Report to
Congress
(a)
In
general
The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service shall by December 31 of each year submit to the Subcommittee on
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations
and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report
on the coordinated strategies established and progress made toward goals to
control and eliminate the Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River
basins and tributaries.
(b)
Contents
The
Director shall include in each report—
(1)
observed changes
in the range of Asian Carp in such waters during the 2-year period preceding
submission of the report;
(2)
a
summary of Federal agency efforts, including cooperative efforts with
non-Federal partners, to control the spread of Asian Carp in such
waters;
(3)
research needed
that could improve the ability to control such spread;
(4)
quantitative
measures that will be used to document progress in controlling such spread;
and
(5)
cross-cut
accounting of Federal and non-Federal expenditures to control such
spread.
