1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Puerto Rico Status Resolution
Act
.
2.
Findings and
purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress
finds the following:
(1)
In 1898, Puerto Rico became a United States
territory and persons born in Puerto Rico have been granted United States
citizenship by law since March 2, 1917.
(2)
Puerto Rico has been granted authority over
local matters that is similar to the authority that the several States possess,
but Puerto Rico remains subject to the powers of Congress under the Territory
Clause of the Constitution of the United States.
(3)
The approximately 3,700,000 residents of
Puerto Rico do not have a democratic form of government at the national level,
because United States citizens residing in the territory are disenfranchised in
the election for the President and the Vice President of the United States, are
not represented in the United States Senate, and their one representative in
the United States House of Representatives can only vote in committees of the
United States House of Representatives.
(4)
The Federal
Government may—and often does—treat Puerto Rico and its residents unequally
under Federal program, tax, and other laws relative to the several States and
the District of Columbia and their residents.
(5)
On November 6, 2012, the Government of
Puerto Rico held a two-part referendum. The first question asked voters if
Puerto Rico
should continue to have its present form of territorial
status
. Of the 1,798,987 voters who chose an option, 53.97 percent
voted against continued territorial status.
(6)
The second
question asked voters to express their preference among the three possible
alternatives to territorial status: statehood, independence, and nationhood in
free association with the United States. Of the 1,363,854 voters who chose an
option, 61.16 percent voted for statehood.
(7)
The number of
votes cast in favor of statehood exceeded the number of votes cast in favor of
continued territorial status.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to provide for a
federally authorized ratification vote in Puerto Rico on the admission of
Puerto Rico into the Union as a State and, if a majority of voters ratify
Puerto Rico’s desire for statehood, to describe the steps that the President
and Congress shall take to enable the admission of Puerto Rico as a State of
the Union.
3.
Ratification
vote
The State Elections
Commission of Puerto Rico is authorized to provide for a ratification vote on
the admission of Puerto Rico into the Union as a State, in accordance with
rules and regulations determined by the Commission, including qualifications
for voter eligibility, with the following on the ballot:
As a
State:
(A)
Puerto Rico would be permanently united to
the other States of the Union.
(B)
All provisions of the Constitution of the
United States that apply to the States would apply to Puerto Rico.
(C)
Individuals born
in Puerto Rico would be United States citizens by virtue of the Constitution of
the United States, instead of by virtue of laws of the United States.
(D)
Puerto Rico would
be treated equally with the other States in all Federal laws of general
application.
(E)
There would be a
period of transition to statehood, during which equal treatment of Puerto Rico
in program and tax laws would be phased in.
(F)
Puerto Rico would
be represented in the United States Senate by two Senators, in the United
States House of Representatives by a number of Representatives in proportion to
its share of the national population (and the number of Members of the House of
Representatives would be increased by the same number), and for the election of
the President and the Vice President of the United States by a number of votes
in the Electoral College equal to the number of its Senators and
Representatives.
(G)
The Government of Puerto Rico, like the
governments of the other States, would have permanent authority over all
matters not delegated to the Federal Government or the people by the
Constitution of the United States.
Do you
want Puerto Rico to be admitted as a State of the United States? Yes__
No__
.
4.
Implementation
(a)
Presidential
action
If a majority of votes
cast in the ratification vote held under section 3 are for the admission of
Puerto Rico as a State of the Union, the President, not later than 180 days
after the certification of the vote, shall submit to Congress legislation to
admit Puerto Rico as a State of the Union on an equal footing with the several
States in all respects, consistent with the terms of this Act.
(b)
Legislative
action
If a majority of votes
cast in the ratification vote held under section 3 are for the admission of
Puerto Rico as a State of the Union, this Act constitutes a commitment by
Congress to act, through legislation, to admit Puerto Rico as a State of the
Union on an equal footing with the several States in all respects, consistent
with the terms of this Act.
