1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DoD Suicide Tracking Act of 2014
.
2.
Improved consistency in reserve component suicide prevention and resilience program
(a)
Policy for standard suicide data collection, reporting and assessment
To improve consistency in and oversight of the suicide prevention and resilience program for the
National Guard and Reserves established pursuant to section 10219 of title
10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe a policy
for the development of a standard method for collecting, reporting, and
assessing suicide data and suicide-attempt data involving members of the
National Guard and Reserves.
(b)
Consultation
The Secretary of Defense shall develop the policy required by subsection (a) in consultation with
the Secretaries of the military departments, the Chief of the National
Guard Bureau, and the adjutants general of the States, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
(c)
Submission of policy and congressional briefing
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit the
policy developed under subsection (a) to the Committees on Armed Services
of the Senate and the House of Representatives. At the request of the
committees, the Secretary also shall brief such committees on the policy
and the implementation status of the standardized suicide data collection,
reporting and assessment method.
(d)
Implementation
The Secretaries of the military departments, with respect to the Reserves, and the Chief of the
National Guard Bureau and the adjutants general, with respect to the
National Guard, shall implement the policy developed under subsection (a)
within 180 days after the date of the submission of the policy under
subsection (c).
3.
Department of Defense suicide prevention program for military dependents
(a)
Program required
As soon as possible after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
direct the Secretary of each military department to develop and implement
a program to track, retain, and analyze information regarding suicides
involving dependents of members of the regular and reserve components of
the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary.
(b)
Dependent defined
In this section, the term
dependent
means a person described in
section 1072(2)
of title 10, United States Code, except that, in the
case of a parent or parent-in-law of a member of the Armed Forces, the
income-support requirement of subparagraph (E) of such section does not
apply.
