1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 2013
.
2.
Land exchange, Trinity Public Utilities District, Trinity County, California, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Forest Service
(a)
Land exchange required
If the Utilities District conveys to the Secretary of the Interior all right, title, and interest of the Utilities District in and to Parcel A, the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the Utilities District, in exchange, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to Parcel B.
(b)
Availability of maps and legal descriptions
Any map prepared by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture in connection with a conveyance under subsection (a), and the legal description of Parcel A and Parcel B, shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service and the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management. With the agreement of the parties to the conveyances under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may make technical corrections to the maps and legal descriptions.
(c)
Equal value exchange
(1)
Land Exchange Process
The land exchange under this section is intended to be an equal value exchange. Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out the land exchange in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1716
).
(2)
Appraisal of parcels
The values of Parcel A and Parcel B shall by determined by appraisals performed by a qualified appraiser mutually agreed to by the parties to the conveyances under subsection (a). The appraisals shall be performed in conformance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions.
(3)
Cash equalization
If the values of Parcel A and Parcel B are not equal, the values may be equalized through the use of a cash equalization payment. Notwithstanding section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1716(b)
), a cash equalization payment may be made in excess of 25 percent of the appraised value of the Parcel B.
(d)
Disposition of proceeds
(1)
In general
Any cash equalization payment received by the United States under subsection (c) shall be deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171
(
16 U.S.C. 484a
; commonly known as the Sisk Act).
(2)
Use of proceeds
Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) shall be available to the Secretary of Agriculture, without further appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition of land or interests in land in California for inclusion in the National Forest System.
(e)
Survey and administrative costs
The exact acreage and legal description of Parcel A and Parcel B shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture. The Utilities District shall be responsible for the costs of the survey. The Federal Government and the Utilities District shall share in other administrative costs of the land exchange under this section.
(f)
Management of acquired land
Upon the acquisition of Parcel A, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Redding Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management, shall administer Parcel A as public land in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) and the laws and regulations applicable to public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
(g)
Completion of land exchange
The Secretary of Agriculture shall complete the conveyance of Parcel B not later than one year after the date on which the Utilities District offers to convey Parcel A to the Secretary of the Interior.
(h)
Definitions
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Parcel
A
The term
Parcel A
means the approximately 47 acres of land, known as the
Sky Ranch parcel
, adjacent to public land administered by the Redding Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management.
(2)
Parcel
B
The term
Parcel B
means the approximately 100 acres land in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest in the State of California near the Weaverville Airport in Trinity County.
(3)
Utilities District
The term
Utilities District
means the Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, California.
