1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Hiding Congressional Farm Subsidies Act
.
2.
Disclosure of crop insurance premium subsidies made on behalf of Members of Congress and certain
other individuals and entities
Section 502(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (
7 U.S.C. 1502(c)
) is amended by adding at the end
the following new paragraphs:
(5)
Disclosure of crop insurance premium subsidies made on behalf of Members of Congress and Cabinet
Secretaries
(A)
Disclosure required
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or any other provision of law, the Secretary shall make available to
the public, on an annual basis—
(i)
the name of each individual or entity specified in subparagraph (B) who obtained a federally
subsidized crop insurance, livestock, or forage policy or plan of
insurance (other than a catastrophic risk protection plan offered under
section 508(b)) during the previous fiscal year;
(ii)
the amount of premium subsidy received by that individual or entity from the Corporation for such
policy or plan of insurance; and
(iii)
the amount of any Federal portion of indemnities paid in the event of a loss during that fiscal
year for policy or plan of insurance.
(B)
Covered individuals
Subparagraph (A) applies with respect to the following:
(i)
Members of Congress and their immediate families.
(ii)
Cabinet Secretaries and their immediate families.
(iii)
Entities of which any individual described in clause (i) or (ii), or a combination of such
individuals, is a majority shareholder.
(6)
Disclosure of benefits for private insurance providers
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or any other provision of law, the Secretary shall make available to
the public, on an annual basis, regarding each private insurance provider,
by name—
(A)
the underwriting gains earned through participation in the federally subsidized crop insurance
program; and
(B)
the amount paid under this subtitle for administrative and operating expenses, any Federal portion
of indemnities and reinsurance, and any other purpose.
.
