1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Urban Flooding Awareness Act of 2014
.
2.
Urban flooding defined
(a)
In general
In this Act, the term
urban flooding
means the inundation of property in a built environment, particularly in more densely populated
areas, caused by rain falling on increased amounts of impervious surface
and overwhelming the capacity of drainage systems, such as storm sewers.
(b)
Inclusions
In this Act, the term
urban flooding
includes—
(1)
situations in which stormwater enters buildings through windows, doors, or other openings;
(2)
water backup through sewer pipes, showers, toilets, sinks, and floor drains;
(3)
seepage through walls and floors;
(4)
the accumulation of water on property or public rights-of-way; and
(5)
the overflow from water bodies, such as rivers and lakes.
(c)
Exclusion
In this Act, the term
urban flooding
does not include flooding in undeveloped or agricultural areas.
3.
Urban flooding study
(a)
Agreement with National Research Council
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall enter into an agreement with the
National Research Council under which the National Research Council will
conduct a study on urban flooding in accordance with the requirements of
this section.
(b)
Contents
(1)
General review and evaluation
In conducting the study, the National Research Council shall review and evaluate the latest
available research, laws, regulations, policies, best practices,
procedures, and institutional knowledge regarding urban flooding.
(2)
Specific issue areas
The study shall include, at a minimum, an examination of the following:
(A)
The prevalence and costs associated with urban flooding events across the United States, with a
focus on the largest metropolitan areas and any clear trends in frequency
and severity over the past 2 decades.
(B)
The adequacy of existing federally provided flood risk information and the most cost-effective
methods and products to identify, map, or otherwise characterize the risk
of property damage from urban flooding on a property-by-property basis,
whether or not a property is in or adjacent to a 1-percent (100-year)
flood plain, and the potential for training and certifying local experts
in flood risk characterization as a service to property purchasers and
owners and their communities.
(C)
The causes of urban flooding and its apparent increase over the past 20 years, including the
impacts of—
(i)
global climate change;
(ii)
increasing urbanization and the associated increase in impervious surfaces; and
(iii)
undersized, deteriorating and otherwise ineffective stormwater infrastructure.
(D)
The most cost-effective strategies, practices, and technologies used to reduce the impacts of urban
flooding, with a focus on decentralized, easy-to-install, and low-cost
approaches, such as nonstructural and natural infrastructure on public and
private property. The examination under this subparagraph shall include an
assessment of opportunities for implementing innovative strategies and
practices on government-controlled land, such as Federal, State, and local
roads, parking lots, alleys, sidewalks, buildings, recreational areas, and
open space.
(E)
The role of the Federal Government and State governments, as conveners, funders, and advocates, in
spurring market innovations based on public-private-nonprofit
partnerships. Such innovations may include smart home technologies for
improved flood warning systems connected to high-resolution weather
forecast data and Internet- and cellular-based communications systems.
(F)
The most sustainable and effective methods for funding flood risk and flood damage reduction at all
levels of government, including—
(i)
the potential for establishing a State revolving fund program for flood prevention projects similar
to the revolving fund programs under the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act;
(ii)
stormwater fee programs using impervious surface as the basis for fee rates and providing credits
for the installation of flood prevention or other stormwater management
features;
(iii)
grant programs; and
(iv)
public-private partnerships.
(G)
Information and education strategies and practices, including nontraditional approaches such as the
use of social media, for community leaders, government staff, and property
owners on—
(i)
flood risks;
(ii)
flood risk reduction strategies and practices; and
(iii)
the availability and effectiveness of different types of flood insurance policies.
(H)
The relevance of the National Flood Insurance Program and Community Rating System to urban flooding
areas outside traditional flood plains, and strategies for broadening
coverage and increasing participation under the programs.
(I)
Strategies for protecting downstream communities from the flooding impacts of development in
upstream communities, including a review of—
(i)
potential standards for watershed-wide flood protection planning; and
(ii)
the potential establishment of streamlined legal processes for victims of flood damage, to avoid
the need for expensive litigation.
(c)
Consultation
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall carry out this section in
consultation with the Secretary of the Army (acting through the Chief of
Engineers), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and State, regional,
and local stormwater management agencies, and such other interested
parties as the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
considers appropriate.
(d)
Report to Congress
Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall submit to the Committee on Financial
Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report containing the
findings of the National Research Council based on the results of the
study, including recommendations for implementation of strategies,
practices, and technologies relating to urban flooding by Congress and the
executive branch.
