1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Security Agency Accountability Act
.
2.
Annual report by the Comptroller General on programs under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978
(a)
Report
Title VI of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (
50 U.S.C. 1871 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
602.
Annual report by the Comptroller General
(a)
Report
The Comptroller General of the United States shall annually submit to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a report on the effectiveness of the programs and activities carried out under this Act.
(b)
Contents
Each report under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
an analysis of the restrictions placed on access to information obtained under this Act;
(2)
the number of incidents of non-compliance with this Act or any rule, regulation, policy, or procedure to carry out this Act;
(3)
a description of actions taken in response to incidents of non-compliance described in paragraph (2);
(4)
a description of the minimization procedures used to carry out each provision of this Act;
(5)
a description of how such minimization procedures are verified to be in use and effective;
(6)
the number of applications made under each appropriate provision of this Act, the number of such applications approved by a court, and the number of times such applications resulted in an oral argument before the court;
(7)
the number of times employees of or contractors to the National Security Agency search information acquired under this Act; and
(8)
any other information the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
(c)
Public disclosure
At the time of submission of each report required under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall make publicly available an unclassified summary of such report.
.
(b)
Table of contents amendment
The table of contents in the first section of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 601 the following new item:
Sec. 602. Annual report by the Comptroller General.
.
