1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Work for Warriors Act of 2014
.
2.
Direct employment pilot program for members of the National Guard and Reserve
(a)
Establishment
Chapter 1601
of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
1601
Training generally
Sec.
16101. Work for Warriors Program.
16101.
Work for Warriors Program
(a)
Program authority
The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall carry out a pilot program (to be known as the
Work for Warriors Program
) to enhance the efforts of the Department of Defense to provide job placement assistance and
related employment services directly to members of the reserve components
of the armed forces.
(b)
Administration
The Work for Warriors Program shall be offered to, and administered by, the adjutants general
appointed under
section 314
of title 32.
(c)
Cost-Sharing requirement
As a condition on the provision of funds under this section to a State to support the operation of
a Work for Warriors Program in the State, the State must agree to
contribute an amount, derived from non-Federal sources, equal to at least
30 percent of the funds provided by the Chief of the National Guard
Bureau.
(d)
Direct Employment Program Model
The Work for Warriors Program should follow a job placement program model that focuses on working
one-on-one with a member of a reserve component to cost-effectively
provide job placement services, including services such as identifying
unemployed and underemployed members, job matching services, resume
editing, interview preparation, and post-employment follow up. Development
of the Work for Warriors Program should be informed by State direct
employment programs for members of the reserve components of the armed
forces, such as the programs conducted in California and South Carolina.
(e)
Assistance from other Federal Agencies
The Secretary of Labor may provide technical assistance to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau
and State adjutants general in the development and implementation of the
Work for Warriors Program.
(f)
Evaluation
The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall develop outcome measurements to evaluate the success
of the Work for Warriors Program in a State.
(g)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Report Required
Not later than 180 days after the completion of a Work for Warriors Program conducted under
subsection (a), the Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report describing the results of the
program. The Chief shall prepare the report in coordination with the Under
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
(2)
Elements of Report
A report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the effectiveness and achievements of the Work for Warriors
Program, including the number of members of the reserve components hired
and the cost-per-placement of participating members.
(B)
An assessment of the impact of the Work for Warriors Program and increased reserve component
employment levels on the readiness of members of the reserve components.
(C)
A comparison of the Work for Warriors Program to other programs conducted by the Department of
Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs to provide unemployment and
underemployment support to members of the reserve components.
(D)
Any other matters considered appropriate by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau or the Under
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
(h)
Limitation on total fiscal-Year obligations
The total amount obligated by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to carry out the Work for
Warriors Program for any fiscal year may not exceed $20,000,000.
(i)
Duration of Authority
(1)
In general
The authority of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to carry out the Work for Warriors Program
applies during fiscal years 2015 through 2018.
(2)
Extension
Upon the expiration of the authority under paragraph (1), the Chief of the National Guard Bureau
may extend the Work for Warriors Program for not more than two additional
fiscal years.
.
(b)
Table of chapters
The table of chapters at the beginning of subtitle E of title 10, United States Code, and at the
beginning of part IV of such subtitle, are each amended by striking the
item relating to chapter 1601 and inserting the following new item:
1601.
Work for Warriors Program
16101
.
