1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Jazz Preservation, Education, and Promulgation Act of 2014
.
2.
National Jazz Preservation Program
(a)
Establishment
There is established a National Jazz Preservation Program, to be carried out by the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution through the Director of the National Museum of
American History and in collaboration with other Smithsonian museums, to
preserve knowledge and promote education about jazz.
(b)
Program components
Under the National Jazz Preservation Program, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall—
(1)
record audio and video interviews with leading jazz artists;
(2)
acquire and preserve jazz artifacts, and interpret the artifacts through activities such as
exhibitions and performances by the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks
Orchestra;
(3)
continue to recognize Jazz Appreciation Month;
(4)
establish, with governmental agencies, universities, museums, and community-based organizations
with jazz archival collections, collaborative agreements for the sharing
of jazz artifacts; and
(5)
encourage, consult with, and engage in capacity building with community-based and regional
organizations with the potential to establish jazz archival collections.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2015 through 2017, to remain available until expended.
3.
Jazz education in elementary and secondary schools
Section 5411(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7243(b)
) is
amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new paragraph:
(9)
Programs to promote jazz education, which may include—
(A)
a Jazz Artists in the Schools program to provide support for State arts agencies to bring jazz
artists to elementary and secondary schools in collaboration with local
educational agencies;
(B)
a program for—
(i)
the development by jazz artists and educators of lesson plans and other educational materials about
jazz;
(ii)
the distribution of such educational materials by organizations that may include the National
Endowment for the Arts, educational institutions, State and local arts and
cultural organizations, or non-profit organizations; and
(iii)
teacher training on jazz education by jazz artists and educators; and
(C)
an Ambassadors of Jazz program to send jazz musicians, and jazz orchestras from secondary schools,
abroad to perform for diverse audiences on missions of goodwill,
education, and cultural exchange, in collaboration with the Secretary of
State.
.
4.
National Jazz Appreciation Program
(a)
Establishment
There is established a National Jazz Appreciation Program, to be carried out by the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution through the Director of the National Museum of
American History and in collaboration with other Smithsonian museums and
affiliates, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the National
Endowment for the Humanities, to further the appreciation of jazz music
throughout the Nation.
(b)
Program components
Under the National Jazz Appreciation Program, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall
establish a series of jazz performances at Smithsonian affiliates
throughout the Nation that provides broad geographic access to jazz and
supports public appreciation for the diversity of jazz music.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2015 through 2017, to remain available until expended.
