1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Declaration Improvement Act of
2013
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The process that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) uses to determine whether major disaster assistance
should be recommended to the President is badly flawed.
(2)
The Government Accountability Office’s 2012
report on the FEMA disaster assistance process stated that according
to
FEMA and state emergency management officials, FEMA has primarily relied on a
single indicator, the statewide per capita damage indicator, to determine
whether to recommend that a jurisdiction receive [Public Assistance]
funding
.
(3)
The Government Accountability Office’s 2012
report on the FEMA disaster assistance process also stated that 244 of 246
approved disaster declarations during fiscal years 2008 through 2011 had damage
estimates that met or exceeded the Public Assistance per capita
indicator.
(4)
Federal
regulations do not prioritize the factors to be considered in recommending a
major disaster declaration, but FEMA clearly does, as 99 percent of disasters
in fiscal years 2008 through 2011 that satisfied FEMA’s statewide per capita
damage threshold received a disaster declaration.
(5)
FEMA should give,
in its future evaluation of Governor-submitted requests for major disaster
assistance, equal consideration to all of the factors described in section
206.48(a) of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, so that the process for
recommending major disaster assistance will work as originally intended.
(6)
Another flaw in
FEMA’s process, that communities within large States and counties are unfairly
disadvantaged, must also be addressed.
(7)
Evaluation of
Governor-submitted requests for major disaster assistance on the basis of a
statewide per capita damage threshold, and occasionally a countywide per capita
damage threshold, establishes a higher threshold for States and counties with
large populations to receive major disaster assistance, even though there is no
indication that they have a greater fiscal capacity to respond to
disasters.
(8)
The inequity
described in paragraphs (6) and (7) means that communities can suffer high
levels of disaster-related damage but not receive the assistance they need to
quickly recover from the disaster.
(9)
FEMA should
consider more than just the statewide and countywide per capita damage
thresholds in evaluating a request for major disaster assistance, so that
communities in large population counties in large population States do not face
an unreasonably high barrier to receiving assistance following a
disaster.
3.
Consideration of
major disaster assistance requests
Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency shall issue regulations to ensure that—
(1)
in any review of a request for major
disaster assistance conducted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the
factor described in
section 206.48(a)(1)
of title 44, Code of Federal
Regulations (relating to the estimated cost of assistance), is provided
consideration that is equal to the consideration provided to each of the other
factors described in section 206.48(a) of such title; and
(2)
a request for major disaster assistance by
a State is considered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for
recommendation to the President, without regard to any per capita damage
threshold (other than a threshold described in this paragraph), in any case in
which a disaster occurs with respect to a city or unincorporated
jurisdiction—
(A)
with a population
of less than 250,000;
(B)
located in a county with a population of
more than 1,000,000 and a State with a population of more than 5,000,000;
and
(C)
with respect to
which the financial damage relating to the disaster exceeds—
(i)
in
the case of a city, 10 percent of the city’s general fund; or
(ii)
in
the case of an unincorporated jurisdiction, $100 per capita.
