1.
Suspension from visa waiver program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, immediately shall
suspend from the visa waiver program established under section 217 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1187
) any country that has
identified passport holders fighting with Islamic extremist organizations,
including such groups as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
and al-Qaeda affiliated organization.
(b)
Restoration of participation
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall restore a suspended country’s participation in the visa
waiver program upon a determination by the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence
of the ability of both the suspended country and the United States to
identify, track, and negate the risk of any individual entering the United
States from such country under the visa waiver program.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1)
the Comptroller General of the United States should conduct a review of the national security risks
associated with the visa waiver program and submit the results of that
review to the Congress;
(2)
the Secretary of Homeland Security should take steps to strengthen the electronic travel
authorization system described in section 217(h)(3) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1187(h)(3)
), identify any individual fighting
with an Islamic extremist organization, and deny such individual the
ability to enter the United States by means of such system; and
(3)
the Secretary of Homeland Security should complete as expeditiously as possible the biometric entry
and exit data system described in section 7208 of the 9/11 Commission
Implementation Act of 2004 (
8 U.S.C. 1365b
).
3.
Technical amendments
Section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1187
) is amended by striking
Attorney General
each place the term appears (except in subsection (c)(11)(B)) and inserting
Secretary of Homeland Security
.
