1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicare Home Health Fraud Reduction Act
.
2.
Establishment of maximum threshold for episode reimbursement to skilled home health agencies under Medicare
Section 1895(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395fff(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
Episode utilization rate
(A)
Payment limitation
For 2014 and each subsequent year, payment may not be made to a skilled home health agency under this section for an episode of care to the extent that such episode exceeds the applicable episode utilization limit established under subparagraph (B) for the agency for the year.
(B)
Applicable episode utilization limit
(i)
In general
For 2014 and each subsequent year, the Secretary shall establish an episode utilization limit for a skilled home health agency that is equal to the product of—
(I)
in the case of a skilled home health agency located in—
(aa)
a rural area, 3.3 episodes; and
(bb)
in an area not described in item (aa), 2.7 episodes; and
(II)
the total number of Medicare beneficiaries for the skilled home health agency (as defined in clause (iii)).
(ii)
Episode defined
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
episode
has the meaning given such term for purposes of
section 484.205
of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on October 1, 2011) and includes partial episodes for which a partial episode payment is made pursuant to such section to the extent such partial episode is a percentage of a full episode.
(iii)
Total number of medicare beneficiaries defined
(I)
In general
For purposes of clause (i)(II), the term
total number of Medicare beneficiaries
means, with respect to a skilled home health agency and year, the total number of unduplicated individuals who were furnished home health services under this title in the year by the agency.
(II)
Special rule
In calculating the total number of Medicare beneficiaries under subclause (I), in any case where an individual is furnished skilled home health care services from more than one agency, the number of such individuals being counted toward the applicable episode utilization limit for each such agency shall be proportionally credited in an amount equal to the percentage of the total number of episodes provided by the agency.
.
