115 HRES 737 IH: Expressing support for the designation of March 2, 2018, as “Gold Star Families Remembrance Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2018-02-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 737
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 13, 2018
Mr. Latta
(for himself,
Mr. Gallego
,
Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia
,
Mr. Garamendi
,
Mr. Turner
,
Mr. Knight
,
Mr. O'Halleran
,
Mr. Norcross
,
Mr. Jones
,
Mr. Wenstrup
, and
Mr. Gallagher
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
, and in addition to the Committee on
Veterans' Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of March 2, 2018, as
Gold Star Families Remembrance Day
.
Whereas March 2, 2018, marks the 89th anniversary of President Calvin Coolidge signing an Act of Congress that approved and funded the first Gold Star pilgrimage to enable Gold Star families to travel to the gravesites of their loved ones who died during World War I;
Whereas the members and veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States bear the burden of protecting the freedom of the people of the United States; and
Whereas the sacrifices of the families of the fallen members and veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States should never be forgotten: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Gold Star Families Remembrance Day
;
(2)
honors and recognizes the sacrifices made by the families of members and veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States who gave their lives to defend freedom and protect America; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to observe
Gold Star Families Remembrance Day
by—
(A)
performing acts of service and good will in their communities; and
(B)
celebrating the lives of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice so that others could continue to enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
