115 HRES 245 IH: Expressing support for designation of April 23 as “Barbara Johns Day” to highlight the important role Ms. Barbara Rose Johns (Powell) played in the Civil Rights Movement, in Brown v. Board of Education and the desegregation of schools, and her role in the history of the United States and the lives of United States citizens.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-04-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 245
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 3, 2017
Mr. Garrett
(for himself,
Mr. Scott of Virginia
,
Mr. Brat
, and
Mr. Taylor
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for designation of April 23 as
Barbara Johns Day
to highlight the important role Ms. Barbara Rose Johns (Powell) played in the Civil Rights
Movement, in Brown v. Board of Education and the desegregation of schools,
and her role in the history of the United States and the lives of United
States citizens.
Whereas on April 23, 1951, at the age of 16, Johns led a student strike for equal education at R.R. Moton High School in Prince Edward, Virginia;
Whereas after securing legal support from the NAACP, these Moton students filed suit in Davis v. Prince Edward County, the largest and only student initiated case consolidated into Brown v. Board of Education, the landmark 1954 United States Supreme Court decision declaring segregation and the
separate but equal
principle in public schools to be unconstitutional; and
Whereas April 23 would be an appropriate date to designate as
Barbara Johns Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Barbara Johns Day
to highlight the important role Ms. Johns played in the lives of United States citizens;
(2)
requests that the President issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe
Barbara Johns Day
with appropriate ceremonies and activities; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to consider the role and impact of Ms. Johns in the Civil Rights Movement and the role students have had in American history.
