115 HRES 123 EH: Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 43) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by Secretary of Health and Human Services relating to compliance with title X requirements by project recipients in selecting subrecipients; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 69) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Department of the Interior relating to “Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, and Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska”; and providing for proceedings during the period from February 17, 2017, through February 24, 2017.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-02-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 123
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
February 15, 2017
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 43) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by Secretary of Health and Human Services relating to compliance with title X requirements by project recipients in selecting subrecipients; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 69) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Department of the Interior relating to
Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, and Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska
; and providing for proceedings during the period from February 17, 2017, through February 24, 2017.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 43) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by Secretary of Health and Human Services relating to compliance with title X requirements by project recipients in selecting subrecipients. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 69) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Department of the Interior relating to
Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, and Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska
. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to recommit.
3.
On any legislative day during the period from February 17, 2017, through February 24, 2017—
(a)
the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved; and
(b)
the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
4.
The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
