To prevent the introduction of epidemic diseases, it is ordered that provisions of the act of  , approved  , entitled, "An act granting additional quarantine powers and imposing additional duties upon  ," and all rules and regulations heretofore or hereafter prescribed by the Secretary of the   under that act are to be given full force and effect in   in so far as they are applicable, and the following additional rules and regulations are hereby promulgated:

The examination in ports of   of incoming and outgoing vessels, and the necessary surveillance over their sanitary condition as well as of cargo, officers, crew and all personal effects is vested in and will be conducted by  , and Medical Officers of that service will be detailed by the Secretary of the   as   at   of   and   immediately and at other ports in   as soon as practicable or necessary.

Quarantine Officers shall have authority over incoming vessels, their wharfage and anchorage in so far as it is necessary for the proper enforcement of the quarantine regulations, including vessels of   and non-combatant vessels of the  .

Collectors of   at ports of entry will not permit entry with out quarantine certificates.

Any vessel leaving any port in   for any port in   or its   shall obtain a bill of health from the quarantine officer when such officer is on duty, said bill of health to correspond to the Consular Bill of Health now required by  , and the bill of health shall not be given to the outgoing vessel unless all quarantine regulations have been complied with. At ports where no medical officer is detailed, bills of health will be signed by   or other officers to whom such duty has been regularly delegated. Special regulations relating to the bills of health to be obtained by vessels of   will be promulgated by the Secretary of the  .

The Medical Officer detailed under this order as Quarantine Officer at the   shall be the Chief Quarantine Officer for  . It shall be his duty to make appointments and removals from the service in the   (subject to the approval of the Secretary of the  ), and shall authorize necessary expenditures under such regulations as the Secretary of the   may prescribe.

The regulations for the government of   shall, so far as practicable, have force and effect in the management of the   service in  .

The expenses of the   service will be charged against the revenues of the islands, and a sum not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) in   is hereby set aside from the revenues collected in said islands for this purpose. The expenses shall be paid therefrom upon a certificate of a detailed quarantine officer and upon the approval of the Chief Officer for  .

The Chief Quarantine Officer shall render a report on   to the supervising   in  , who will issue to him necessary instructions.

  will be reimbursed from the revenues of the islands for the cost of this undertaking, plans and materials ordered to be forwarded to the islands prior to the date of this order.
