Whereas the United States of America was founded upon Judeo-Christian principles, and even today many Americans believe that our strength comes from these principles;
Whereas the creator is explicitly mentioned in the Declaration of Independence as endowing us with all of our rights;
Whereas the Supreme Court recently legalized nationwide same-sex marriage in the case of Obergefell et al. v. Hodges;
Whereas the Court’s decision invalidated the wishes of States that prohibited same-sex marriage;
Whereas over 50,000,000 unborn children have been aborted in the years after abortion was legalized as a result of the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade;
Whereas Planned Parenthood Federation of America, America’s largest abortion provider, receives over $500,000,000 of Federal funding annually;
Whereas senior officials of Planned Parenthood were recently recorded facilitating the sale of fetal body parts from aborted babies in violation of Federal law;
Whereas in Jeremiah 1:5 the Bible reads
Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee.
; and
Whereas in 1 Timothy 4:1–5 the Bible reads
Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives calls upon the Speaker to encourage committee chairs to schedule the following legislation for immediate committee consideration, then follow through with scheduling votes on the House floor if they are reported favorably by their respective committees:
(1)
H.R. 2802, the First Amendment Defense Act, introduced by Mr. Labrador of Idaho.
(2)
H. Res. 359, Providing that the House of Representatives disagrees with the majority opinion in Obergefell et al. v. Hodges, and for other purposes, introduced by Mr. King of Iowa.
(3)
H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, introduced by Ms. Black of Tennessee.
(4)
H.R. 3197, the Protecting Life and Taxpayers Act of 2015, introduced by Ms. Black of Tennessee.
