2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 880) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the research credit. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
3.
It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of May 21, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
4.
The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on Wednesday, May 27, 2015, file privileged reports to accompany measures making appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016.
5.
On any legislative day during the period from May 22, 2015, through May 29, 2015—
(a)
the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved; and
(b)
the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
6.
The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 5 of this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
