Section 1. The parties to the labor dispute at the  ,  , yard of  , having been unable to reach a mutual agreement with respect to matters in dispute between them, there is hereby created " " which shall be composed of    ,  , retired, Chairman;   of  ; and Colonel   of  . Each member of the   shall receive necessary travel and subsistence expenses, and in addition thereto, each member who at the time he is serving on the   is not receiving any other salary from  , shall receive $25 per diem.

Section 2. The   shall proceed immediately to investigate, hear evidence, and make findings of fact with a view to formulating, within  , arbitration awards with respect to the following issues in controversy:

(1) The matter of piece work or of incentive work;

(2) The matter of adjustment of wages;

(3) Matters relating to employment and working conditions which have been in dispute in connection with the renewal of the agreement, between the parties, of  ; and

(4) Miscellaneous questions which have been the source of dispute in connection with the recent stoppage of work at the  ,  , yard of   that

, the  , notwithstanding generality of the foregoing language, shall not entertain any request by Local No. 1 of  , for a preferential or closed shop, but in lieu thereof shall include in its award a provision that   will not fill any vacant or new positions with other persons so long as employees who have been employed since  , are available, are competent, and willing to accept the same positions.

Section 3. In order that it may make its awards,  (

a

) Shall request  . 1 of  , to file with the  , not later than noon,  ,  , their separate written agreements to abide by the awards of the  , and to embody them in an agreement, to be signed by the parties, to continue until the completion of the existing naval contracts.

(

b

) Shall request that   file with it not later than noon,  ,  , a signed agreement that all of the employees upon the payroll on  , will, upon their application, be taken back without discrimination and under the same hours, wages and working conditions as prevailed when the strike commenced, and that the corporation will, pending a new agreement with the employees, operate the plant in every respect in accordance with the provisions of the expired agreement of  , except that while   is in existence, questions which are not settled by the employees, stewards, foremen, general manager, or vice-president, as provided in Section 3 of said agreement of  , shall be referred for arbitration to said  , and during such time no other Board such as is contemplated in Section 4 of said agreement of  , shall be created, or shall arbitrate such questions.

(

c

) Shall request that Local No. 1,  , file with it not later than noon,  ,  , a signed agreement immediately to terminate the strike now in existence.

Provided that

no agreement requested by the   in accordance with paragraphs (

a

), (

b

) or (

c

) above shall be effective or binding, unless all such requested agreements are filed.

Section 4. The Board shall transmit copies of its findings and such awards as it formulates to the President and to the parties to the dispute.

Section 5. In order to effectuate the purposes of this  , there is hereby allotted to the   the sum of $2,500 from the funds appropriated to carry out the provisions of  .
