By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Pay Readjustment Act of   (Public Law No. 607, 77th  , 2nd Session), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the furnishing of clothing in kind, or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof, to enlisted men of the  ,  ,  , and  .

1. Enlisted men upon first enlistment, or upon reenlistment subsequent to expiration of   from date of last discharge, shall be entitled to a cash clothing allowance of $133.81, except that men enlisted in chief petty officer rating or in the rating of officers' cook or officers' steward, or as members of the  ,  , or   shall be entitled to a cash clothing allowance of $300 on such first enlistment or such reenlistment.

2. Enlisted men advanced to chief petty officer rating or to the rating of officers' cook or officers' steward, or assigned to duty as members of the  ,  , or  , except those holding chief petty officer rating upon such assignment, shall be entitled to a cash clothing allowance of $250. Members of the  ,  , or   below chief petty officer rating shall not, when advanced to chief petty officer rating in their respective bands, be entitled to receive such cash clothing allowance, nor shall men in the rating of officers' cook or officers' steward, when advanced to the rating of officers' chief cook or officers' chief steward be entitled to receive such cash clothing allowances.

3. On   following the anniversary date of enlistment (or reenlistment as specified in paragraph 1), date of reporting for active duty, date of appointment as chief petty officer, officers' cook, or officers' steward, or date of assignment to duty as a member of the  ,   or  , and thereafter on   of each succeeding   while on active duty, enlisted men shall be paid a cash maintenance allowance for clothing, as follows:

(a) Enlisted men (general), $8.75.

(b) Chief petty officers, officers' cooks, officers' stewards, and members of the  ,  , or  , $18.75.

4. Retired enlisted men, members of   (including  ), and members of  , shall, upon reporting for active duty, be entitled to the cash clothing allowances prescribed in this order, except that the first   payment of the cash maintenance allowance for clothing shall be paid on   following the anniversary date of reporting for active duty. Retired enlisted men, and members of   on active duty on  , who were not granted a clothing outfit upon reporting for their current active duty, and all other enlisted men on active duty on  , who were not granted a clothing outfit during  , shall be entitled to the cash maintenance allowance for clothing provided in paragraph  . Enlisted men of the regular   and enlisted men of   on active duty on  , who may later be transferred to   or to the retired list and retained on active duty, shall continue to receive the cash allowances for clothing applicable to them prior to such transfer, or the cash allowances for clothing applicable in the event they are promoted to chief petty officer rating or to the ratings of officers' cook or officers' steward, or assigned duty as members of the  ,  , or  . The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to temporary members of   on part time or Intermittent active duty.

5. Members of   undergoing flight training leading to a commission shall be entitled only to an issue of clothing in kind not to exceed $180 in value. Members of   undergoing training, other than flight training, leading to a commission shall be entitled to an issue of clothing in kind not to exceed $15 in value, and in addition, may be temporarily issued government owned clothing not to exceed $120 in value. Temporary members of   on part time or intermittent active duty may be issued clothing in kind in an amount not to exceed the allowances prescribed in paragraph 1. These allowances in kind are in lieu of any cash clothing allowances.

6. Members of   and   and band shall be entitled to the cash clothing allowances prescribed herein, except that when not required to wear blue clothing the cash clothing allowances shall be one-half the rates prescribed herein.

7. The provisions of this order shall be effective from  , to  , except that enlisted men, other than chief petty officers, officers' cooks, officers' stewards, and members of the  ,  , or  , enlisting or reporting for active duty  , inclusive, shall be entitled to a cash clothing allowance of $118.95 in lieu of the cash clothing allowance of $133.81 as authorized in paragraph 1 of this order.
