In order to promote the most effective mobilization and utilization of the national manpower and to eliminate so far as possible waste of manpower due to disruptive recruitment and undue migration of workers, and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including the First War Powers Act,  , and   of  , as amended, as President of  , and as Commander in Chief of the   and the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (established by Section 1 of Executive Order No.  , dated  ) shall consist of a Chairman appointed by the President and one representative, designated subject to the approval of the Chairman, of each of the following departments and agencies:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and such other executive departments and agencies as the President shall determine; and a joint representative of   and  , designated by the Chairman of   (hereinafter referred to as the Chairman).

2. (a)   created and established for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of   of  , as amended, and all of its functions, powers, duties, personnel (including the Director of Selective Service), records, property, and funds (including all unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds available for the administration of said Act, as amended) are transferred to   in   of the President, and shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Chairman. The local boards and appeal boards of   shall, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chairman, continue to exercise the functions, powers, and duties vested in them by   of  , as amended.

(b) The functions, powers, and duties of the Director of  , including authority delegated to him by the President under the provisions of   of  , as amended, are transferred to the Chairman and may be exercised through the Director of   and such other officers, agents, and persons and in such manner as the Chairman may determine.

(c) The Chief of Finance,  , shall act as the fiscal, disbursing, and accounting agent of the Chairman in carrying out the provisions of   of  , as amended.

3. The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   shall, after consultation with the Chairman, determine the number of men required to be selected   in order to fulfill the total respective requirements of the   and   as approved by the President. The Chairman shall furnish the required number of men through  .

4. After the effective date of this   no male person who has attained the eighteenth anniversary and has not attained the   anniversary of the day of his birth shall be inducted into the enlisted personnel of the armed forces (including reserve components), except, under provisions of   of  , as amended; but any such person who has, on or before the effective date of this  , submitted a bona fide application for voluntary enlistment may be enlisted within   after said date.

5. Insofar as the effective prosecution of the war requires it, the Chairman shall take all lawful and appropriate steps to assure that (a) all hiring, rehiring, solicitation, and recruitment of workers in or for work in any establishment, plant, facility, occupation, or area designated by the Chairman as subject to the provisions of this section shall be conducted solely through   or in accordance with such arrangements as the Chairman may approve; and (b) no employer shall retain in his employ any worker whose services are more urgently needed in any establishment, plant, facility, occupation, or area designated as more essential by the Chairman pursuant to this section.

6. The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   shall take such steps as may be necessary to assure that all training programs for the armed forces (including their reserve components) and  , which are carried on in non-Federal educational institutions, conform with such policies or regulations as the Chairman, after consultation with the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the  , prescribes as necessary to insure the efficient utilization of the  's educational facilities and personnel for the effective prosecution of the war.

7. The Chairman shall (a) issue such policies, rules, regulations, and general or special orders as he deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this  , (b) take steps to prevent and relieve gross inequities or undue hardships arising from the exercise of the provisions of Section 5 of this   insofar as he finds so doing will not interfere with the effective prosecution of the war, and (c) establish such procedures (including appeals) as are necessary to assure a hearing to any person claiming that any action, taken by any local or regional agent or agency of   pursuant to Section 5 of this   and said Executive Order No.  , is unfair or unreasonable as applied to him.

8. (a) The Chairman may perform the functions and duties and exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this   or any other Order of the President through such officers, agents, and persons and in such manner as he shall determine.

(b) The Chairman may avail himself of the services and facilities of such Executive departments and agencies as he determines may be of assistance in carrying out the provisions of this  . He may accept the services and facilities of   and local agencies.

9. Subject to appeal to the President or to such agent or agency as the President may designate, each Executive department and agency shall so utilize its facilities, services, and personnel and take such action, under authority vested in it by law, as the Chairman, after consultation with such department or agency, determines necessary to promote compliance with the provisions of this   or of policies, directives, or regulations prescribed under said Executive Order No.  .

10. The Chairman shall appoint a   to be selected from the fields of labor, agriculture, and industrial management, and shall consult with the members thereof in carrying out his responsibilities. The Chairman may appoint such other advisory committees composed of representatives of governmental or private groups or both as he deems appropriate.

11. The Chairman shall be ex officio an additional member of   established by Executive Order No.  , dated  .

12. All prior  , insofar as they are in conflict herewith, are amended accordingly. All prior regulations, rulings, and other directives relating to   shall remain in effect, except insofar as they are in conflict with this   or are hereafter amended by regulations, rulings, or other directives issued by or under the direction of the Chairman.

13. This   shall take effect immediately and shall continue in force and effect until the termination of Title I of the First War Powers Act,  .
