By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (Public Law 354, 77th  ), approved  , and to further the successful prosecution of the war through the better utilization of agricultural resources and industries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a)   (including   as an agency of  ),   (except  ), and   of   and their functions, personnel, property, and records are consolidated into an agency to be known as    , which agency shall be administered under the direction and supervision of such officer as the Secretary of Agriculture shall designate.

(b)   of  ,  , and its functions and the personnel, property, and records used primarily in the administration of its functions are transferred to  .

2.  ,  ,  , and   and their functions, personnel, property, and records are consolidated into an agency to be known as   of  , which agency shall be administered under the direction and supervision of such officer as the Secretary of Agriculture shall designate.

3.  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  ,  ,  , and   of   and their functions, personnel, property, and records are consolidated into an agency to be known as   of  , which agency shall be administered under the direction and supervision of such officer as the Secretary of Agriculture shall designate.

4. All libraries administered by agencies of   and all units of the   providing library and bibliographical service and their functions, personnel, property, and records are consolidated and shall be administered through such facilities of the   as the Secretary of Agriculture shall designate.

5. So much of the unexpended balances, appropriations, allocations, or other funds available (or to be made available) for the use of any agency in the exercise of any function transferred or consolidated by this order cr for the use of the head of any agency in the exercise of any function so transferred or consolidated, as the Director of   with the approval of the President shall determine, shall be transferred for use in connection with the exercise of the function so transferred or consolidated. In determining the amount to be transferred the Director of   may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, allocations, or other funds prior to the transfer.

6. This order shall remain in force during the continuance of the present war and for   after termination thereof.
