By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (30 Stat. 11,  ; title 16,  ,  . 473), and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that lands within   in     be, and they are hereby, transferred to the   and   forests as follows:

FROM THE BLACKFEET TO THE KOOTENAI NATIONAL FOREST

All lands within   lying to the westward of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point on the south line of  .. 9, T. 28 N.,   25 W.,  , where the hydrographic divide between the   drainage on the northeast and   drainage on the south-west intersects said line; thence in a general northerly direction along the hydrographic divide between  ,  ,  ,  , and Le Beau Creek drainages on the east and  ,  ,  , and   drainages on the west, passing over  , Sanders Mountain, Mount Conner,  , and  , to an intersection with the south line of  . 17, T. 33 N.,   24 W.,  ; thence easterly along the south line of   16 and 17 to the southeast corner of  . 16,    ,  ; thence north along the east line of said  . 16 to an intersection with the present forest boundary; thence following the present forest boundary in a northwesterly, northerly, and northeasterly direction to an intersection with the crest of the Whitefish Range on the north line of  . 22, T. 35 N., R.  ,  ; thence northerly along the crest of the Whitefish Range, which is the county line between   and  ,  , passing over Mount Locke and  , to an intersection with the international boundary between   and   at boundary monument no. 256.

FROM THE BLACKFEET TO THE FLATHEAD NATIONAL FOREST

All lands within   lying in  . 25 N., Rs.   and 22 W.; secs. 26 N., Rs.  ,  , and 23 W; secs. 27 N., Rs.  ,  ,  , and 24 W; the south two-thirds of tps. 26 N., Ra. 23,  , and 25 W., All Montana meridian; and in addition all lands lying to the eastward of the above described line relating to transfers from the Blackfeet to the   forest, except the following-described tracts which are hereby eliminated from  T. 33 N.,   22 W.,  ,   ¼  . 29,  . 30,  .  ,  . 32;  ,  , SE ¼  . 20,   ¼  .  , secs. 25 to 36, inclusive;   24 W.,  , tracts a, b, and c of secs. 24;  ,   ¼ NE ¼, N ½ NE¼   ¼ NE ¼, and the   ¼ SW ¼ NE¼   ¼,  . 25, all  . 26.

It is not intended by this order to remove from a national-forest status any lands other than those described in the preceding paragraph or to place in a national-forest status any public lands which have not hitherto had such a status.

The lands above described comprise all of what hitherto has been designated as the   forest, and the effect of the transfers and eliminations herein ordered is to discontinue   as a separate administrative entity.
