  OF INFORMATION AND FURNISHING COPIES OF RECORDS.

Whereas

, Section 7, Title I, of Public No. 2, 73rd  , entitled "An Act To maintain the credit of  " provides:

"The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs subject to the general direction of the President and in accordance with regulations to be issued by the President shall administer, execute, and enforce the provisions of this title and for such purpose shall have the same authority and powers as are provided in Sections 425, 430, 431, 432, 433, 434, 440, 442, 443, 444, 447, 450, 451, 453, 455, 457, 458,  , 459a, 459c, 459d, 459e, 459f, Title 38, U.S.C., and such other  , U.S.C., as relate to the administration of the laws granting pensions."

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said law the following regulation is hereby promulgated:

I. All files, records, reports and other papers and documents pertaining to any claim, whether pending or adjudicated, shall be deemed confidential and privileged, and no disclosure thereof shall be made except as follows:

(a) To a claimant or his duly authorized agent or representative as to matters concerning himself alone when in the judgment of the Admin?istrator of  , such disclosure would not be injurious to the physical or mental health of the claimant;

(b) When required by process of   to be produced in any suit or proceeding therein pending or when such production is deemed by   to be necessary in any suit or proceeding brought under the World War Veterans' Act,  , as amended;

(c) When required by any   or other agency of  ;

(d) In all proceedings in the nature of an inquest into the mental competency of a claimant;

(e) In any judicial proceedings when in the judgment of the Administrator of  ' Affairs such disclosure is deemed necessary and proper;

(f) The amount of pension of any beneficiary shall be made known to any person who applies for such information, and the Administrator, with the approval of the President, upon determination that the public interest warrants or requires, may, at any time and in any manner, publish any or all information of record pertaining to any claim;

(g) The Administrator of   in his discretion may authorize an inspection of   records by duly authorized representatives of recognized organizations.

II. Any person desiring a copy of any record, paper, etc., in the custody of  , which may be disclosed under the above provisions, must?make written application for same to  , stating specifically:?

(1) The particular record, paper, etc., a copy of which is desired and whether certified or uncertified;

(2) The purpose for which such copy is desired to be used.

The Administrator of   is authorized to fix a schedule of fees for copies and certifications of such records.

 

 

 .
