Whereas

a proclamation issued by me on  , proclaimed that a national emergency exists in connection with and to the extent necessary for the proper observance, safeguarding, and enforcing of the neutrality of   and the strengthening of our national defense within the limits of peace-time authorizations; and

Whereas

the authorized enlisted strength of the active list of   in peace time is 131,485 men with authority in the President when a sufficient emergency exists to increase this strength to 191,000 men, and the authorized enlisted strength of the active list of   in peace time is 20 per centum of the total authorized enlisted strength of the active list of the  ; and

Whereas

the   and   will be charged with additional and important duties in connection with such national emergency requiring increases in their present enlisted strengths within the limits of these authorizations:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and by the act of  , as amended by the act of   (U.S.C., title 34,  . 151), section 15 (d) of the act of   (U.S.C., title 34,  . 691), by the act of  , as amended by section 17 of the act of   (U.S.C., title 34,  . 423), by the act of  , Title I, section 5 (U.S.C.,  . title  , section 853c), and  , section 3667, as amended (U.S.C., title 31,  . 665), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The enlisted strength of the active list of   shall be increased as rapidly as possible by voluntary enlistments as may be deemed necessary by the Secretary of the   not to exceed 145,000 men.

2. The enlisted strength of the active list of the   shall be increased as rapidly as possible by voluntary enlistments to 25,000 men.

3. The Secretary of the   is authorized, in his discretion, to order to active duty such commissioned and warrant officers of the   and   on the retired list, and such transferred members of   and   as he may deem necessary.

4. The Secretary of the   is also authorized to order to active duty such officers and men of   and   other than transferred members of   and  , including aviation cadets, as he may deem necessary and as agree voluntarily to serve.

5. To the extent made necessary by this order,   is hereby authorized to waive or modify the   or other apportionments of its appropriations for contingent expenses or other general purposes for  .
