WHEREAS in accordance with a certain Settlement Agreement dates as of  , executed by and between the Secretary of the Interior and   pursuant to the act of  , 60 Stat. 743, the Secretary of the   has returned possession and control of and conveyed to the Grand River Dam Authority the Grand River Dam Project (Licensed Project No.  ), and has adjusted and settled certain accounts between   and the said   resulting from the taking and use by   of that  ; and

WHEREAS in the administration of the Grand River Dam Project (  Oklahoma  -P-DS) the Secretary of the   has accepted as a part of such adjustment and settlement certain Refunding and Project Bonds known as "  2 ½% Revenue Bonds, Series A", in the aggregate principal amount of $14,000,000; and

WHEREAS the said   (  Oklahoma  -P-DS) was transferred from   to the Secretary of the   by Executive Order No.   of  , under the authority of Title I of the First War Powers Act,   and upon the expiration of that Title the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the   with respect to that  , including the said bonds, would by operation of law be vested in  , who is custodian for   of all other revenue bonds of like character; and

WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the interest of administrative convenience and continuity to effect an immediate transfer to   of the functions, powers, and duties previously transferred to the Secretary of the   by the said Executive Order   with respect to the said   (PWA Dock Oklahoma  -P-DS) and the contracts, records, and accounts relating thereto, including the said bonds:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , including Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , 55 Stat. 838, and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All functions, powers, and duties previously transferred by Executive Order No.   of  , from   to the Secretary of the   with respect to the Grand River Dam Project (  Oklahoma  -P-DS), including the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the   with respect to the said Refunding and  , are hereby transferred to and vested in  , to be exercised by him or by such person or persons as he may designate.

2. The said   and   and all contracts, records, and accounts used primarily by the Secretary of the   in the administration of any function, power, or duty transferred by this order or primarily relating thereto are hereby transferred to   for use in the administration of such functions, powers, and duties.

3. Nothing in this order shall be construed to derogate or affect (a) the authority of the Secretary of the   to continue the completion of the adjustment and settlement of accounts between   and the Grand River Dam Authority under the said act of  , and the Settlement Agreement executed in pursuance thereof, and under all other applicable statutes: or (b) the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the   with respect to the project for the acquisition of an additional five feet of reservoir storage for the Grand River Dame Project (Federal List No. 584;  ) transferred by the said Executive  . 97-373 to the Secretary of the   from  .
