PART I

Upon the fulfillment of the conditions precedent specified in Part II of this order and the certification thereof by   as provided in such Part, and without further act, the possession, use, and control of the two following-described tracts of land comprising a portion of  ,  ,  , Territory of  , shall be restored to the Territory of  , and title to the said tracts shall be transferred to the said Territory:

Beginning at a lead plug at the west corner of this piece of land, on the southeasterly side of  , the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government Survey triangulation station " " being 4,412.22 feet south and 5,678.39 feet west, thence running by azimuths measured clockwise from true south:

1. 219° 00'00" 154.09 feet along the southeasterly side of  ; thence along Channel Street, on a curve to the right with a radius of 20.00 feet, the chord azimuth and distance being:

2. 264° 00'00" 28.28 feet;

3. 309° 00'00" 172.16 feet along same, along  ;

4. 38° 48'30" 270.86 feet along the remainder of Tract No. 1 of  ;

5. 128° 48'30" 25.98 feet along  , 81st  , dated  );

6. 218° 58'20" 96.70 feet along same;

7. 129° 03'00" 167.01 feet along  , 81st  , dated  ) to the point of beginning and containing an areas of 35,932 square feet or 0.82 acre.

Excepting and excluding from the above-described property the land which was transferred to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of War (now Secretary of the  ) by letter of the Secretary of  ) dated  , pursuant to the act of   approved  , 53 Stat.  , and containing 6,920 square feet or 0.16 acre.

TRACT No. 2

Beginning at the west corner of this piece of land, on the southeasterly side of  , the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government Survey triangulation station "Punchbowl" being 3,930.19 feet south and 5,637.61 feet west, thence running by azimuths measured clockwise from true south:

1. 219° 00' 214.12 feet along the Honolulu Harbor Line;

2. 279° 46' 116.48 feet;

3. 322° 20' 198.34 feet along a fence to concrete monument No. 1;

4. 39° 00' 224.88 feet along the northwesterly side of   to a brass plate;

5. 129° 00' 294.63 feet along Channel Street, along  . 2, and passing over brass plate No. 3 at 192.99 feet, to the point of beginning and containing an area of 72,432 square feet or 1.66 acres.

PART II

1. The Territory of Hawaii shall replace the existing bakery and that portion of the warehouse (combined   and T-29) located on the land described in Part I hereof by remodeling and increasing the capacity of the existing bakery at the Schofield Barracks Military Reservation.

2. The Territory of Hawaii shall completely raze the existing warehouse (combined   and T-29) and remove all debris.

3. The Territory of Hawaii shall relocate all   utility lines running through the site of the proposed   and shall grant perpetual easements for all such utility lines as relocated.

4. The Territory of Hawaii shall replace the existing boundary fence and gates by erecting a new fence along the revised boundary, with entrance driveways and gates as required by  .

5. The Territory of Hawaii shall replace the   Boathouse now located at Pier 2A by constructing a new boathouse at  , the boathouse area to be inclosed with steel sheet piling or equivalent protection against the open sea.

6. The Territory of Hawaii shall make the necessary alternations in the present   and   located on   to accommodate   now located at Pier 2A.

7. The Territory of Hawaii shall replace the remaining facilities now located at Pier 2A by construction an office and armory building at Fort DeRussy Military Reservation.

8. The Territory of Hawaii (and not  ) shall make any arrangements that may be necessary with   (as to property occupied by  ) or   (as to property occupied by  ) with respect to any rights or interest in any lands now under the jurisdiction of the said   affected by the proposed  .

9. None of the above-described construction of new facilities or alteration of existing facilities shall be at the expense of  .

10. The Territory of Hawaii shall bear all expenses in connection with the preparation of final plans and specifications for the construction and alteration work outlined above; the plans and specifications shall be based on preliminary plans prepared by   in conjunction with  ,  , Pacific, in  , copies of which have been furnished to representatives of the Territory of Hawaii (except that preliminary plans for altering   and   at the Fort Armstrong Military Reservation, furnished to the Territory of Hawaii in  , shall be substituted for the earlier plans for replacement of laboratory facilities); final plans and specifications for each item shall be approved by   before the start of construction or alteration work on each item; and the order of priority of each item shall be subject to the joint approval of   and  . At the request of the Territory of Hawaii,  , acting by and through  ,  ,  , prior to final acceptance by the Territory of any item of work which has been performed under a contract between the Territory of   and any contractor, shall advise the Territory of   whether it concurs in such final acceptance.

11. Prior to the completion of all replacement   facilities by the Territory of  , and prior to the restoration of the possession, use, and control of the lands and the transfer of title thereto from   to the Territory of  , and prior to the restoration of the possession, use, and control of the lands and the transfer of title thereto from   to the Territory of Hawaii, the   may, if it so desires request right-of-entry to proceed with the demolition of existing   improvements or the construction of   facilities on the subject lands. Such right-of-entry shall be secured in writing from   by the Territory of   for each improvement to be demolished or constructed. The granting of any such right-of-entry shall be at the discretion of  , except as such right-of-entry is necessary to enable the Territory of   to complete the construction or demolition for   as described above. Whenever the demolition of any building or improvement on the subject lands is necessary to permit Territorial construction, either for the Territory of   or for  , and construction by the Territory of replacement   facilities has progressed to a point where it is deemed to be in the best interest of   to do so,   may, at its discretion and upon written request from the   in each case, certify as to such partial fulfilment of the conditions specified in Part II of this order, and upon such certification possession, use, and control of such building or improvement and title thereto shall vest in the  .

12. The Territory of Hawaii shall commence construction and alteration of the said replacement facilities within  , and shall complete construction and alteration thereof within  , from the date of this order.

13. The Territory of Hawaii shall not be called upon to furnish an operating equipment, appliances, or furniture in connection with the construction or alteration of replacement facilities but shall be responsible for installing any operating equipment, appliances, or furniture furnished by   and shall be responsible for furnishing and installing such standard furnishings and equipment (such as light fixtures, plumbing, locks, and washbasins) as are called for in the plans and specifications.

14. The Territory of Hawaii shall not be required to expend for the construction and alteration work outlined above (the intent and extent of which is covered, by reference, in paragraph 10), whether it be performed pursuant to approved final plans and specifications or pursuant to plans and specifications amended as set forth in paragraph 15, any sum in excess of $409,177, plus the cost of preparing plans and specifications. Subject to the foregoing limitation, the work contemplated shall be accomplished, and the cost thereof discharged, without further reference to the amounts set forth in the existing preliminary estimates as costs of the individual construction and alteration items comprising the overall project, and in case it is necessary to accomplish the intent with respect to one item savings on another or others shall be applied. But if the Territory of   shall have performed construction and alteration work in the amount of $409,177, in the approved order of priority of items and in accordance with approved plans and specifications as they may be amended, all as provided in this Part, the Territory of Hawaii shall be deemed to have completed all the work which the   is required by this Part to perform, irrespective of the amount of work actually accomplished.

15. The Territory of Hawaii shall furnish     statements of expenditures for the said construction and alteration work to permit coordination of work placed and being placed with work not yet started, and   shall have the right to approve the schedule of such work and to amend plans and specifications, upon the giving of adequate notice.

16. When the Territory of   has completed to the satisfaction of   all the work which the   is required by this Part to perform, such work, except that which has already been accepted pursuant to the last sentence of paragraph 10 of this Part, shall be accepted by  , and when all such work has been accepted the   shall so certify to the Territory of  .  ,  , Pacific, shall represent   with respect to the acceptance of replacement facilities and certification that the conditions precedent set forth in this Part have been fulfilled, and with respect to any other matter covered by this order.
