SECTION 1. The head of each contracting agency of   shall be primarily responsible for obtaining compliance by any contractor or subcontractor with the said nondiscrimination provisions of any contract entered into, amended, or modified by his agency and of any subcontract thereunder, and shall take appropriate measures to bring about the said compliance.

 . 2. There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall be composed of eleven members as follows:

(a) One representative of each of the following-named agencies (hereinafter referred to as the participating agencies), who shall be designated by the respective heads of the participating agencies:  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(b) Six other members, who shall be designated by the President.

The   shall have a chairman and a vice-chairman, both of whom shall be designated by the President from among its members.

 . 3. The   is authorized on behalf of the President to examine and study the rules, procedures, and practices of the contracting agencies of the Government as they relate to obtaining compliance with   contract provisions prohibiting the discrimination referred to above in order to determine in what respects such rules, procedures, and practices may be strengthened and improved. The   shall confer and advise with the appropriate officers of the various contracting agencies and with other persons concerned with a view toward the prevention and elimination of such discrimination, and may make to the said officers recommendations which in the judgment of the   will prevent or eliminate discrimination. When deemed necessary by the   it may submit any of these recommendations to the Director of Defense Mobilization, and the Director shall, when he deems it appropriate, forward such recommendations to the President, accompanied by a statement of his views as to the relationship thereof to the mobilization effort. The   shall establish such rules as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under this order.

 . 4. All contracting agencies of the Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   and, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish the   such information and assistance as it may require in the performance of its functions under this order. The participating agencies shall defray such necessary expenses of the   as may be authorized by law, including section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).
