Executive Order 7152—Administration of Relief, Work Relief, and Useful Projects for the Virgin Islands
August 21, 1935
Franklin D. Roosevelt

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, approved April 8, 1935 (Public Res. 11, 74th Cong.), I hereby prescribe the following additional functions and duties of the Temporary Government of the Virgin Islands to be exercised and performed by the Governor of the Virgin Islands under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior:

To initiate, formulate, administer, and supervise a program of approved projects for providing relief and work relief and for increasing employment within the Virgin Islands, including projects of the Resettlement Administration in or for the Virgin Islands, and all other projects in or for the Virgin Islands heretofore undertaken and partially executed under title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act (48 Stat. 195, 200), or under any section of that title; and to carry out any remaining functions of any agencies established in or for the Virgin Islands under any section of that title.

All assets and records of the Resettlement Administration acquired from the Virgin Islands Subsistence Homesteads Authority under and by virtue of Executive Order No. 7041, of May 15, 1935, are hereby transferred to the Temporary Government of the Virgin Islands.

For the performance of the aforesaid functions and duties, expenditures are hereby authorized for necessary supplies and equipment; law books and books of reference, directories, periodicals, newspapers, and press clippings; travel expenses, including expense of attendance at meetings when specifically authorized by the Governor of the Virgin Islands; rental at the seat of government and elsewhere; purchase, operation, and maintenance of passenger-carrying vehicles; printing and binding; and incidental expenses; and I hereby authorize the Governor of the Virgin Islands to accept and utilize such voluntary and uncompensated services, utilize such services of local officers and employees, appoint, without regard to the provisions of the civil-service laws, such officers and employees, as may be necessary, prescribe their duties and responsibilities, and, without regard to the Classification Act of 1923, as amended, fix the compensation of officers and employees so appointed:

Provided

, That insofar as practicable, the persons appointed under the authority of this Executive order shall be selected from those receiving relief.

Allocations will be made hereafter for authorized projects and for administrative expenses in carrying out the additional work imposed upon the Temporary Government of the Virgin Islands by reason of this Executive order.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

August 21, 1935.
