Executive Order 6206-A—Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry
July 16, 1933
Franklin D. Roosevelt

A Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry has been heretofore approved by Order of the President dated July 9, 1933, on certain conditions set forth in such order. The applicants for said Code have now requested the withdrawal of condition 12 of said order providing for the termination of approval at the end of four months unless expressly renewed, have accepted certain other conditions, have proposed amendments to the Code to effectuate the intent of the remaining conditions, and have requested that final approval be given to the Code as so amended and on such conditions.

Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, on the report and recommendation of the Administrator and on consideration,

It is ordered that the condition heretofore imposed as to the termination of approval of the Code is now withdrawn and that the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry is finally approved with the conditions so accepted and with the amendments so proposed, as set forth in Schedule A attached hereto.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

Approval recommended:

Hugh S. Johnson.

The White House,

July 16, 1933.

(SCHEDULE A)

APPLICATION TO THE PRESIDENT BY THE COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY COMMITTEE FOR FINAL APPROVAL OF CODE OF FAIR COMPETITION FOR THE COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY

The Cotton Textile Industry Committee, the applicant for the approval of the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry, submitted for the approval of the President June 16, 1933, and as revised June 30, 1933, accepts the interpretations and conditions to the approval thereof set forth in paragraphs 1, 3, 7, 8, 9, and 13 of the order of the President dated July 9,1933, and asks the approval of the President to the following amendments to such code as properly complying with and effectuating the conditions provided for in paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 11 of said order of approval, and asks for the final approval by the President of the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry as so amended, and on the conditions so accepted and with the omission of the condition in paragraph 12 of such order as to the termination of the approval at the end of four months.

1. It shall be one of the functions of the Planning and Fair Practice Agency provided for in Section 6 of the Code to consider the question of plans for eventual employee ownership of homes in mill villages and submit to the Recovery Administration prior to January 1, 1934, its report in the matter.

2. On and after July 31, 1933, the maximum hours of labor for office employees in the Cotton Textile Industry shall be an average of forty hours a week over each period of six months.

3. The amount of differences existing prior to July 17, 1933, between the wage rates paid various classes of employees (receiving more than the established minimum wage) shall not be decreased-in no event, however, shall any employer pay any employee a wage rate which will yield a less wage for a work week of 40 hours than such employee was receiving for the same class of work for the longer week of 48 hours or more prevailing prior to July 17, 1933. It shall be a function of the Planning and Fair Practice Agency provided for in Paragraph 6 of the Code to observe the operation of these provisions and recommend such further provisions as experience may indicate to be appropriate to effectuate their purposes.

4. On and after the effective date the maximum hours of labor of repair shop crews, engineers, electricians and watching crews in the Cotton Textile Industry shall, except in case of emergency work, be forty hours a week with a tolerance of 10 per cent. Any emergency time in any mill shall be reported monthly to the Planning and Fair Practice Agency provided for in Paragraph 6 of the Code, through the Cotton-Textile Institute.

5. Until adoption of further provisions of this Code that may prove necessary to prevent any improper speeding up of work ( stretch-outs ), no employee of any mill in the Cotton Textile Industry shall be required to do any work in excess of the practices as to the class of work of such employee prevailing on July 1, 1933, or prior to the Share-the-Work Movement, unless such increase is submitted to and approved by the Agency created by Sections 6 of the Code and by the National Recovery Administration.

6. This Code shall be in operation on and after the effective date as to the whole cotton textile industry except as an exemption from or a stay of the application of its provisions may be granted by the Administrator to a person applying for the same or except as provided in an executive order. No distinction shall be made in such exemptions between persons who have and have not joined in applying for the approval of this Code.

Respectfully submitted,

THE COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY COMMITTEE,

GEORGE A. SLOAN,

Chairman.

Dated:

July 15, 1933.
