Executive Order 6228—Organization of Executive Agencies
July 28, 1933
Franklin D. Roosevelt

Whereas

executive order No. 6166 dated June 10, 1933, issued pursuant to the authority of Section 16 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (Public No. 428-47 Stat. 1517) provides in Section 2 as follows:

"All functions of administration of public buildings, reservations, national parks, national monuments, and national cemeteries are consolidated in an office of National Parks, Buildings, and Reservations in the Department of the Interior, at the head of which shall be a Director of National Parks, Buildings, and Reservations ; except that where deemed desirable there may be excluded from this provision any public building or reservation which is chiefiy employed as a facility in the work of a particular agency. This transfer and consolidation of functions shall include, among others, those of the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior and the National Cemeteries and Parks of the War Department which are located within the continental limits of the United States. National Cemeteries located in foreign countries shall be transferred to the Department of State, and those located in insular possessions under the jurisdiction of the War Department shall be administered by the Bureau of Insular Affairs of the War Department."

and;

Whereas

to facilitate and expedite the transfer and consolidation of certain units and agencies contemplated thereby, it is desirable to make more explicit said Section 2 of the aforesaid executive order of June 10, 1933, insofar as the same relates to the transfer of agencies now administered by the War Department:

Now, Therefore

, said executive order No. 6166, dated June 10, 1933, is hereby interpreted as follows:

1. The cemeteries and parks of the War Department transferred to the Interior Department are as follows:

NATIONAL MILITARY PARKS

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, Georgia and Tennessee.

Fort Donelson National Military Park, Tennessee.

Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County Battle Fields Memorial, Virginia.

Gettysburg National Military Park, Pennsylvania.

Guilford Courthouse National Military Park, North Carolina.

Kings Mountain National Military Park, South Carolina.

Moores Creek National Military Park, North Carolina.

Petersburg National Military Park, Virginia.

Shiloh National Military Park, Tennessee.

Stones River National Military Park, Tennessee.

Vicksburg National Military Park, Mississippi.

NATIONAL PARKS

Abraham Lincoln National Park, Kentucky.

Fort McHenry National Park, Maryland.

BATTLEFIELD SITES

Antietam Battlefield, Maryland.

Appomattox, Virginia.

Brices Cross Roads, Mississippi.

Chalmette Monument and Grounds, Louisiana.

Cowpens, South Carolina.

Fort Necessity, Wharton County, Pennsylvania.

Kenesaw Mountain, Georgia.

Monocacy, Maryland.

Tupelo, Mississippi.

White Plains, New York.

NATIONAL MONUMENTS

Big Hole Battlefield, Beaverhead County, Montana.

Cabrillo Monument, Ft. Rosecrans, California.

Castle Pinckney, Charleston, South Carolina.

Father Millet Cross, Fort Niagara, New York.

Fort Marion, St. Augustine, Florida.

Fort Matanzas, Florida.

Fort Pulaski, Georgia.

Meriwether Lewis, Hardin County, Tennessee.

Mound City Group, Chillicothe, Ohio.

Statue of Liberty, Fort Wood, New York.

MISCELLANEOUS MEMORIALS

Camp Blount Tablets, Lincoln County, Tennessee.

Kill Devil Hill Monument, Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.

New Echota Marker, Georgia.

Lee Mansion, Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia.

NATIONAL CEMETERIES

Battleground, District of Columbia.

Antietam, (Sharpsburg) Maryland.

Vicksburg, Mississippi.

Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.

Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Fort Donelson, (Dover) Tennessee.

Shiloh, (Pittsburg Landing) Tennessee.

Stones River, (Murfreesboro) Tennessee.

Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Poplar Grove, (Petersburg) Virginia.

Yorktown, Virginia.

2. Pursuant to Section 22 of said executive order it is hereby ordered that the transfer from the War Department of national cemeteries other than those named above be, and the same is hereby postponed until further order.

3. Also pursuant to Section 22 of said executive order it is hereby ordered that the transfer of national cemeteries located in foreign countries from the War Department to the Department of State and the transfer of those located in insular possessions under the jurisdiction of the War Department to the Bureau of Insular Affairs of said Department be, and the same are hereby postponed until further order.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

July 28, 1933.
