Executive Order 7087—Transfer of Lands From the Clearwater National Forest to the Lolo National Forest in the State of Idaho
June 27, 1935
Franklin D. Roosevelt

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of June 4, 1897 (30 Stat. 11, 36; title 16, U.S.C., sec. 473), and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that all lands within the Clearwater National Forest lying south and east of the following-described line be, and they are hereby, transferred to the Lolo National Forest:

Beginning at a point on the main hydrographic divide between the North Fork Clearwater River drainage on the north and the Lochsa River drainage on the south at a point identified as Indian Grave Peak at approximately latitude 46° 30' N. and longitude 115° 10' W.; thence in a northwesterly direction along Windy Ridge, identified as the hydrographic divide between the Gravey Creek drainage on the northeast and the headwaters of Weitas Creek on the southwest, passing over B.M. 6435, to a point where said divide is intersected by the hydrographic divide between Monroe Greek on the northwest and Gravey Creek on the southeast; thence northeasterly along said Monroe Creek-Gravey Creek divide to Raspberry Butte; thence easterly down the ridge between branch drainage of Gravey Creek on the south and tributaries of Cayuse Creek on the north to an intersection with Cayuse Creek just west of the mouth of Gravey Creek; thence across Cayuse Creek and northeasterly up the ridge to Lunde Peak; thence in a general easterly direction along the hydrographic divide between Toboggan Creek on the north and Cayuse Creek on the south to a point identified as B.M. 6580; thence northerly and easterly around tributaries of Cayuse Creek to B.M. 7525, which point is identified as Black Lead Peak; thence northerly and easterly around the divide at the head of Silver Creek to an intersection with the main hydrographic divide between the North Fork Clearwater River drainage on the west and the Lochsa River drainage on the east to a point approximately identical with B.M. 7705 and further identified as Williams Peak.

It is not intended by this order to remove from a national-forest status any land having a national-forest status or to place in a national-forest status any public lands which have not heretofore had such a status.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

June 27, 1935.
