Executive Order 7060—Prescribing Rules and Regulations Relating to Procedure for Employment of Workers Under the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935
June 05, 1935
Franklin D. Roosevelt

REGULATION NO. 2

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, approved April 8, 1935 (Public Resolution No. 11, 74th Congress), I hereby prescribe the following rules and regulations:

Section 1. As used in this regulation "projects" shall mean projects financed in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935.

Section 2. Persons shall be eligible for employment on projects who (

a

) are registered with the employment offices designated by the United States Employment Service in accordance with the administrative order issued May 22, 1935, by the Federal Emergency Relief Administrator and (

b

) were receiving public relief in May, 1935:

Provided

, however, that as the various occupational classes in such group are exhausted through employment, other persons who (1) become eligible for public relief subsequent to May, 1935, and (2) are certified to the Works Progress Administration and the United States Employment Service by the State Emergency Relief Administrations may be added to the list of those eligible for such employment.

Section 3. Persons who once become eligible for employment on projects shall not have their eligibility affected by temporary employment in other public employment or in private industry.

Section 4. The United States Employment Service shall notify the Works Progress Administration of all persons who (

a

) are employed on projects and (

b

) have complied with the eligibility requirements provided in section 1 hereof and have been placed in other public employment or in private employment. Such notification shall be made immediately after such placements on forms prescribed by the Works Progress Administration.

Section 5. Only persons certified for assignment to work by the United States Employment Service shall be employed on projects:

Provided

, That for the purpose of effectuating the purposes of paragraph I (C) of Executive Order No. 7034 of May 6, 1935, the Works Progress Administrator or the State Works Progress Administrators are hereby authorized, in their discretion, to modify this requirement in connection with any project not operated under contract.

Section 6. All persons (

a

) who are employed on projects conducted by the State Emergency Relief Administration and continued by the Works Progress Administration, and who are otherwise eligible, or (

b

) who are certified by the United States Employment Service as eligible for employment on projects to be conducted by the Works Progress Administration shall be regarded as continuously certified for assignment to work on projects to be conducted by the Works Progress Administration unless they are requisitioned by the United States Employment Service for employment on other projects, in other public work, or in private industry.

Section 7. Persons who are certified for assignment to work on projects shall be accepted or rejected by those having responsibility for the management of such employment solely on the basis of their fitness to perform the assigned tasks and shall not be discriminated against on any other grounds whatsoever.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

The White House,

June 5, 1935.
