Section 1. Policy and  .   (29 U.S.C. 151) proclaims that the policy of   is to encourage worker organizing and collective bargaining and to promote equality of bargaining power between employers and employees. In   (5 U.S.C. 7101(a)(1)), the   found that "experience in both private and public employment indicates that the statutory protection of the right of employees to organize, bargain collectively, and participate through labor organizations of their own choosing in decisions which affect them . . . safeguards the public interest, . . . contributes to the effective conduct of public business, and . . . facilitates and encourages the amicable settlements of disputes between employees and their employers involving conditions of employment."

In  ,   has not used its full authority to promote and implement this policy of support for workers organizing unions and bargaining collectively with their employers. During this period, economic change in   and globally, technological developments, and the failure to modernize   organizing and labor-management relations laws to respond appropriately to the reality found in   workplaces, have made worker organizing exceedingly difficult.

The result has been a steady decline in union density in   and the loss of worker power and voice in workplaces and communities across the country. This decline has had a host of negative consequences for   workers and the economy, including weakening and shrinking  's middle class. Meanwhile, some workers have been excluded from opportunities to organize unions and bargain collectively with their employers by law or practice, and so have never been able to build meaningful economic power or have a voice in their workplaces.

Confirming the policies declared in Federal labor laws, substantial evidence shows that union membership increases wages, the likelihood of receiving employer-provided benefits, and job security. Union membership also gives workers the means to build the power to ensure that their voices are heard in their workplaces, their communities, and in the Nation.

Therefore, it is the policy of my Administration to encourage worker organizing and collective bargaining.

 . 2. Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment. There is hereby established within   of the President   Empowerment (Task Force).

(a) The Vice President shall serve as  . In addition to the Vice President, the Task Force shall consist of the following officials or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as Vice Chair of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of the  ;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii) the Secretary of  ;

( ) the Administrator of  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi) the Administrator of  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii) the Director of  ;

(xix) the Director of  ;

(xx) the Chair of  ;

(xxi) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xxii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xxiii) the Assistant to the President and  ; and

(xxiv) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices as the President may from time to time designate upon the recommendation of the Chair of the Task Force.

(b)   and its members shall identify executive branch policies, practices, and programs that could be used, consistent with applicable law, to promote my  's policy of support for worker power, worker organizing, and collective bargaining. This identification shall include policies, practices, and programs that could be used to promote worker power in areas of the country with hostile labor laws, for marginalized workers (including women and persons of color) and hard-to-organize industries, and in changing industries.   and its members also shall identify statutory, regulatory, or other changes that may be necessary to make policies, practices, and programs more effective means of supporting worker organizing and collective bargaining.

(c) The functions of   are advisory in nature only; the purpose of   is to make recommendations regarding changes to policies, practices, programs, and other changes that would serve the objectives of this order.

(d)   should invite  ,  ,  , and other executive agencies, boards, and commissions with responsibility for implementing laws concerning worker organizing and collective bargaining to consult, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, with  .

(e) The   may establish such sub-committees or other working groups composed of Task Force members or their representatives as may be necessary to accomplish the objectives of this order.

(f) Consistent with the objectives of this order and applicable law, the Task Force may gather relevant information from labor organizations, other worker advocates, academic and other experts, and other entities and persons it identifies that will assist   in accomplishing the objectives of this order.

(g) The Task Force shall, within   of the date of this order, submit to the President recommendations for actions as described in subsection (b) of this section to promote worker organizing and collective bargaining in the public and private sectors, and to increase union density. The Task Force may, at the  's discretion, recommend appropriate or time-sensitive individual actions to promote worker organizing and collective bargaining before the deadline established by this section.   and its members shall work to implement all recommendations that the President may approve, to the extent permitted by law, and shall report their progress as directed by the  .

 . 3. Definitions. For purposes of this order:

(a) "Policies, practices, and programs" includes regulations; guidance and other formal policy documents; procurements; grants and other direct or indirect Federal investments; tax and trade administration and enforcement; administration and enforcement of labor, employment, and other relevant laws; property management; and human resources management and labor relations.

(b) "Worker organizing and collective bargaining" encompasses the private sector,   and local governments, and  . It also includes those sectors of the economy and those workers who have not historically been able to unionize, or whose ability to effectively collectively bargain or organize has been undermined.

(c) the term "agency" refers to all agencies described in section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in  ) of title  .

 . 4. Revocations. (a) Executive Order   (Establishing the President's  ), and Executive Order 13931 of   (Continuing the President's   and  ), are revoked.

(b) The Director of   and the heads of executive departments and agencies shall promptly consider taking steps to rescind any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, or portions thereof, implementing or enforcing     or Executive Order  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.). In addition, they shall abolish any personnel positions, committees, task forces, or other entities established pursuant to Executive Order   or Executive Order  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 5.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
