Section 101

.

Policy

.   faces broad exposure to the mounting risks and costs already posed by the climate crisis. In responding to this crisis, we have a once-in-a-generation economic opportunity to create and sustain jobs, including well-paying union jobs; support a just transition to a more sustainable economy for   workers; strengthen  's communities; protect public health; and advance environmental justice. As the single largest land owner, energy consumer, and employer in the Nation,   can catalyze private sector investment and expand the economy and   industry by transforming how we build, buy, and manage electricity, vehicles, buildings, and other operations to be clean and sustainable.

We also must build on past progress and pursue new strategies to improve the  's preparedness and resilience to the effects of a changing climate, including advancing   strategic planning, governance, financial management, and procurement to ensure climate resilient operations.

It is therefore the policy of my Administration for   to lead by example in order to achieve a carbon pollution-free electricity sector by   and net-zero emissions economy-wide by  . Through a whole-of-government approach, we will demonstrate how innovation and environmental stewardship can protect our planet, safeguard Federal investments against the effects of climate change, respond to the needs of all of  's communities, and expand   technologies, industries, and jobs.

 . 102

.

Government-wide Goals

. (a) Leading the Nation on a firm path to net-zero emissions by   and achieving the policy set forth in section 101 of this order will require bold action to transform Federal procurement and operations and secure a transition to clean, zero-emission technologies. Through a coordinated whole-of-government approach, the   shall use its scale and procurement power to achieve:

(i) 100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity on a net   basis by  , including 50 percent 24/7 carbon pollution-free electricity, as defined in section 603(a) of this order;

(ii) 100 percent zero-emission vehicle acquisitions by  , including 100 percent zero-emission light-duty vehicle acquisitions by  ;

(iii) a net-zero emissions building portfolio by  , including a 50 percent emissions reduction by  ;

(iv) a 65 percent reduction in scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by  , from Federal operations by   from   levels;

(v) net-zero emissions from Federal procurement, including a   policy to promote use of construction materials with lower embodied emissions;

(vi) climate resilient infrastructure and operations; and

(vii) a climate- and sustainability-focused Federal workforce.

(b) The actions and investment required to achieve these goals will protect the environment, drive innovation, spur private sector investment, improve public infrastructure, and create new economic opportunity. Pursuant to section 511 of this order, agencies shall implement this order in accordance with my  's policies to combat the climate crisis; help   businesses compete in strategic industries; create and sustain well-paying union jobs that allow workers to thrive; maximize the use of   goods, products, materials, and services; and promote a secure, just, and equitable future for all  .

 . 201

.

Agency Goals and Targets

. (a) In implementing the policy set forth in section 101 of this order and to support the achievement of the government-wide goals of section 102 of this order, the head of each agency shall propose targets, including   progress targets as applicable, to meet the requirements of sections 202 through 206 of this order.

(b) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and the Director of   (OMB) shall review the targets, and agencies shall incorporate such targets into the performance management systems described under section 503 of this order, as appropriate.

 . 202

.

Reducing Agency Greenhouse Gas Emissions

. Each agency shall reduce its scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by  , by setting and meeting targets for   measured from   baseline.

 . 203

.

Transitioning to 100 Percent Carbon Pollution-Free Electricity

. Each agency shall increase its percentage use of carbon pollution-free electricity, so that it constitutes 100 percent of facility electrical energy use on an   basis, and seek to match use on an hourly basis to achieve 50 percent 24/7 carbon pollution-free electricity, by  . In addition, agencies shall facilitate new carbon pollution-free electricity generation and energy storage capacity by authorizing use of their real property assets, such as rooftops, parking structures, and adjoining land, for the development of new carbon pollution-free electricity generation and energy storage through leases, grants, permits, or other mechanisms, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 204

.

Transitioning to a Zero-Emission Fleet

. Each agency's light-duty vehicle acquisitions shall be zero-emission vehicles by  . Each agency with a fleet comprising at least 20 vehicles shall develop and   update a zero-emission fleet strategy that shall include optimizing fleet size and composition; deploying zero-emission vehicle re-fueling infrastructure; and maximizing acquisition and deployment of zero-emission light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles where   ( ) offers one or more zero-emission vehicle options for that vehicle class.

 . 205

.

Achieving Net-Zero Emissions Buildings,  , and Installations

. (a) Each agency shall achieve net-zero emissions across its portfolio of buildings, campuses, and installations by 2045 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent from buildings, campuses, and installations by   from   levels, prioritizing improvement of energy efficiency and the elimination of onsite fossil fuel use.

(b) To prioritize reductions in scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by  , agencies should use the   building performance standards issued pursuant to section 510 of this order.

(c) To reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by  , to achieve net-zero emissions buildings, agencies shall:

(i) pursue building electrification strategies in conjunction with carbon pollution-free energy use, deep-energy retrofits, whole-building commissioning, energy and water conservation measures, and space reduction and consolidation;

(ii) design new construction and modernization projects greater than 25,000 gross square feet to be net-zero emissions by  ;

(iii) implement  's   in building design, construction, and operation of all new Federal buildings and renovated existing buildings; and

(iv) use performance contracting, in accordance with the provisions of section 1002 of the Energy Act of   (Public Law 116-133, division Z), to improve efficiency and resilience of Federal facilities, deploy clean and innovative technologies, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from building operations.

 . 206

.

Increasing Energy and Water Efficiency

. Each agency shall increase facility energy efficiency and water efficiency and shall establish targets for   for agency-wide facility energy use intensity and potable water use intensity, with consideration of performance benchmarks for categories of building types (e.g., hospitals, office buildings) and the composition of the agency's building portfolio.

 . 207

.

Reducing Waste and Pollution

. Each agency shall minimize waste, including the generation of wastes requiring treatment and disposal; advance pollution prevention; support markets for recycled products; and promote a transition to a circular economy, as defined in section 2 of the Save Our Seas 2.0 Act (Public Law 116-224), by   diverting from landfills at least 50 percent of non-hazardous solid waste, including food and compostable material, and construction and demolition waste and debris by  ; and 75 percent by  .

 . 208

.

Sustainable Acquisition and Procurement

. (a) Agencies shall reduce emissions, promote environmental stewardship, support resilient supply chains, drive innovation, and incentivize markets for sustainable products and services by prioritizing products that can be reused, refurbished, or recycled; maximizing environmental benefits and cost savings through use of full lifecycle cost methodologies; purchasing products that contain recycled content, are biobased, or are energy and water efficient, in accordance with relevant statutory requirements; and, to the maximum extent practicable, purchasing sustainable products and services identified or recommended by   ( ).

(b) The Chair of CEQ shall consider establishing Federal food procurement policies to reduce associated greenhouse gas emissions and drive sustainability in the   food supply chain.

 . 209

.

Adapting   to  . Consistent with its mission, each agency shall:

(a) develop or revise polices and processes to promote climate resilient investment that advances adaptation to climate change and protects public health and the environment;

(b) conduct climate adaptation analysis and planning for climate-informed financial and management decisions and program implementation;

(c) reform agency policies and funding programs that are maladaptive to climate change and increase the vulnerability of communities, natural or built systems, economic sectors, and natural resources to climate impacts, or related risks; and

(d) develop and enhance tools that assess climate change impacts and support climate adaptation planning and implementation.

 . 301

.

Federal Supply Chain Sustainability

. Federal supply chains should support a   and economy that serves all   by creating and sustaining well-paying union jobs, protecting public health, advancing environmental justice, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and building resilience to climate change. Consistent with applicable law, agencies shall pursue procurement strategies to reduce contractor emissions and embodied emissions in products acquired or used in Federal projects.

 . 302

.

Supplier Emissions Tracking

. The Administrator of GSA shall track disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions, emissions reduction targets, climate risk, and other sustainability-related actions by major   suppliers, based on information and data collected through supplier disclosure pursuant to the requirements of section 5(b)(i) of Executive Order   of   ( ), and shall assist the Chair of CEQ in assessing the results of efforts to reduce Federal supply chain emissions.

 . 303

.

Buy Clean

.   established pursuant to section 508 of this order shall provide recommendations to the Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB, through  , on policies and procedures to expand consideration of embodied emissions and pollutants of construction materials in Federal procurement and federally funded projects, to include:

(a) identifying and prioritizing pollutants and materials, such as concrete and steel, to be covered under a   policy, taking into account the availability of relevant data, including from environmental product declarations, and consistency with existing environmental reporting requirements;

(b) providing recommendations to increase transparency of embodied emissions, including supplier reporting; procedures for auditing environmental product declarations and verifying accuracy of reported emissions data; and recommendations for grants, loans, technical assistance, or alternative mechanisms to support domestic manufacturers in enhancing capabilities to report and reduce embodied emissions in priority materials they produce; and

(c) recommending pilot programs that incentivize Federal procurement of construction materials with lower embodied emissions.

 . 401

.

Engaging, Educating, and  

. Meeting the challenges of climate change and achieving the goals of this order requires an investment in   employees and a workforce with the knowledge and skills to effectively apply sustainability, climate adaptation, and environmental stewardship across disciplines and functions. Agencies shall foster a culture of sustainability and climate action; build employees' skills and knowledge through engagement, education, and training; and incorporate environmental stewardship values and, where appropriate, sustainability goals and objectives into performance plans of executives, managers, and staff. The Director of   (OPM), within   of the date of this order, shall prepare a report for the Chair of CEQ that outlines opportunities for including or expanding environmental sustainability and climate adaptation training content in existing Federal training programs, including   leadership training programs, and strategies for incorporating sustainability into performance plans. In developing this report, the Director of OPM shall coordinate with the Secretary of  , the Administrator of the  ,  , and, as appropriate, the heads of other agencies, as well as   employee unions.

 . 402

.

 

. Environmental justice can only be achieved by ensuring that all those affected by agency operations enjoy the same degree of protection from environmental and health hazards. Accordingly, it is critical that the   incorporate environmental justice considerations into sustainability and climate adaptation planning, programs, and operations. Consistent with applicable law, agencies shall consider incorporating recommendations of  , required by section 223 of Executive Order   (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad), on how Federal investments might be made toward a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits flow to disadvantaged communities that have been historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution and underinvestment in housing, transportation, energy, water, wastewater infrastructure, and health care, into operational planning and decision-making regarding Federal facilities, fleets, and operations. Agencies shall address actions taken to advance environmental justice as part of sustainable operations within the     and Climate Adaptation and Resilience Plans required under section 503 of this order.

 . 403

.

Accelerating Progress Through Public, Private, and Non-profit Sector Engagement

. (a) Through strong partnerships with the public, private, and non-profit sectors and labor unions and worker organizations, we can more effectively catalyze the growth of clean energy industries and jobs. The Federal Chief Sustainability Officer, reestablished in section 501 of this order, and the heads of agencies shall seek to engage with stakeholders and partners in achieving the goals of this order.

(b) In coordination with the Chair of CEQ and the heads of other agencies, as appropriate, the Director of   shall facilitate establishment of   to place senior leaders from the private and non-profit sectors into term-limited appointments to bring innovative perspectives and expertise to   and assist agencies in efforts related to climate action and sustainability.

 . 501

.

Establishment of  

.   is reestablished within  . The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the Office.

(a) The Office shall be headed by a Federal Chief Sustainability Officer, who shall be appointed by the President. The Federal Chief Sustainability Officer shall lead the development of policies, programs, and partnerships to achieve the policies set forth in this order, advance sustainability and climate resilient Federal operations, and ensure   leads by example in combating the climate crisis.

(b) The heads of all agencies shall cooperate with the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer and provide such information, support, and assistance as the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer may request, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 502

.

Designation and Duties of Agency Chief Sustainability Officers

. Within   of the date of this order or   of an   Chief Sustainability Officer leaving that position, heads of agencies shall designate an   Chief Sustainability Officer, and assign to the designated official the responsibility for leading agency planning, implementation, and related actions, to include establishment of internal metrics and performance management systems, to achieve the policy in section 101 and the goals set forth in and targets established under sections 201-209 of this order. Agency Chief Sustainability Officers shall provide to the Director of OMB, the Chair of CEQ, and the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer any information and assistance necessary to implement this order, consistent with applicable law.

 . 503

.

Agency Planning and Performance Management

. (a) The heads of principal agencies shall develop and implement    , based on   guidance provided by  , describing actions and progress toward the goals and requirements of this order.

(b) The heads of principal agencies shall develop, implement, and update   Plans that build on the agency's plan submitted pursuant to section 211 of Executive Order  .

(c) The Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB shall conduct management reviews with each principal agency, at least annually or more frequently as appropriate, to assess implementation and progress on agency plans developed pursuant to this order, the goals set forth in this order, and targets established under this order.

(d) The heads of agencies other than principal agencies are encouraged to develop, implement, or update plans and participate in management reviews under this section.

 . 504

.

Duties of the Chair of  

. In coordination with the Director of OMB, the Chair of CEQ shall:

(a) issue guidance, including the guidance required by section 510(b) of this order, or revise existing guidance, as necessary, for agency implementation of this order,

(b) establish a Chief Sustainability Officer Council that shall advise the Director of OMB and the Chair of CEQ on the performance of agency responsibilities under this order. The Federal Chief Sustainability Officer shall chair the  . Members of the   shall include those   Chief Sustainability Officers invited by the Chair of CEQ, as well as representatives designated by the heads of other agencies at the invitation of  , including representatives from OMB,   within  ,   within  , and a Federal expert on environmental justice.

(c) establish, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, committees, interagency groups, or task forces to provide information, recommendations, and assistance to   and OMB in implementing this order.

 . 505

.

Duties of the Director of OMB

. The Director of OMB shall coordinate with   on implementation of the duties contained in section 504 of this order and, after consultation with the Chair of CEQ and  , issue instructions to the heads of agencies concerning periodic performance evaluation of agency implementation of this order and prepare scorecards providing periodic evaluation of principal agency performance in implementing this order.

 . 506

.

Duties of  

. The   shall monitor and evaluate progress toward the government-wide goals set forth in section 102 of this order in coordination with   established pursuant to section 203 of Executive Order  .

 . 507

.

Duties of Heads of Agencies

. (a) To ensure successful implementation of the policy established in section 101 of this order and the goals set forth in section 102 of this order, the head of each agency shall:

(i) develop an agency-wide strategic process that coordinates appropriate agency functions and programs to ensure that those functions and programs consider and address the goals of this order; and

(ii) issue or revise existing agency policies, directives, and guidance, as appropriate.

(b) To support a whole-of-government approach to achieve the policy in section 101 of this order, independent agencies are encouraged to implement the policy, goals, and provisions of this order, consistent with applicable law.

 . 508

.

Establishment of Federal Leaders Working Groups

. The following   working groups are hereby established, to be housed within CEQ: 100 Percent 24/7 Carbon Pollution-Free Electricity; Zero-Emission Vehicle Fleets;  ;  , including a  ; and  . The Chair of CEQ shall designate the chair or co-chairs for each working group and provide guidance on their membership and responsibilities. The working groups shall provide   reports to   on actions, findings, and progress toward government-wide goals.

 . 509

.

Government-wide Support and Collaboration

. Achieving the government-wide goals of section 102 and the agency goals of sections 201 through 209 of this order requires transforming how we build, buy, and manage across  . To support a whole-of-government approach:

(a) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   shall use the scale of   electricity use to aggregate and accelerate new carbon pollution-free electricity generation capacity to meet Federal energy needs.

(b) The Secretary of   and the Administrator of GSA shall coordinate with  ,  , and local governments to facilitate wider adoption of zero-emission vehicles and, where appropriate, use   acquisition programs for   purchasers.

(c) In coordination with the Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB, the Secretary of Energy shall provide tools and technical support to agencies to develop targets for greenhouse gas emissions, zero-emission vehicle fleets, energy, and water required under section 201 of this order; and shall collect, analyze, and report agency data for the purposes of monitoring and evaluating performance toward the goals of this order.

 . 510

.

Additional Guidance and Instructions for Agencies

. (a) The Director of OMB, in coordination with the Chair of CEQ and  , shall issue a memorandum for agencies that provides direction on immediate actions and further requirements to meet the policies and goals of this order.

(b) To assist agencies in complying with this order, the Chair of CEQ, in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, issue and, as needed, update implementing guidance for agencies that provide directions, strategies, and recommended actions to meet the policies and goals of this order;

(ii) issue building performance standards to support achievement of net-zero emissions in the   building portfolio under section 205 of this order; and

(iii) consider issuing guidance for agencies to promote sustainable locations for Federal facilities and strengthen the vitality and livability of the communities in which Federal facilities are located.

 . 511

.

 

. The heads of agencies shall implement this order consistent with my  's policies to spur growth of domestic industry and well-paying union jobs, address the climate crisis, and deliver equity and environmental justice. These policies include those contained in Executive Order   (  and the Environment and Restoring Science To Tackle the Climate Crisis), Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , which have placed our public health, the environment, and the climate crisis at the forefront of national policy and planning, along with environmental justice, expanding the economy, and the creation of the well-paying union jobs critical to delivering on those goals; Executive Order   (Ensuring the Future Is Made in All of America by All of America's Workers), which establishes that   agencies shall maximize the use of goods, products, and materials that are made in  ; Executive Order   ( ), which directs action with the goal of making Government contracting and procurement opportunities available on an equal basis; and Executive Order   of   ( 's  ), which establishes the policy to strengthen the resilience of  's supply chains to fight climate change, create well-paying jobs, and secure our economic prosperity and national security.

 . 601

.

Limitations

. (a) This order applies to an agency's activities, personnel, resources, and facilities located within  . The head of an agency may apply this order, in whole or in part, to the activities, personnel, resources, and facilities of the agency located outside   if the head of the agency determines that such application is in the interest of  .

(b) To the extent the head of an agency does not apply this order to activities, personnel, resources, and facilities outside of  , the head of the agency shall manage, to the extent practicable, such activities, personnel, resources, and facilities in a manner consistent with the policy set forth in section 101 of this order.

 . 602

.

Exemption Authority

. (a) The head of an agency may exempt particular agency activities and related personnel, resources, and facilities from the provisions of this order when it is in the interest of national security, to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure, or where necessary to protect undercover law enforcement operations from unauthorized disclosure. If the head of an agency issues an exemption under this section, the agency shall notify the Chair of CEQ in writing within   of issuance of the exemption under this section. To the maximum extent practicable and without compromising national security, each agency shall strive to comply with the purposes, goals, and implementation steps in this order.

(b) The head of an agency may exempt from the provisions of this order any vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or non-road equipment that is used in combat support, combat service support, military tactical or relief operations, or training for such operations or spaceflight vehicles, including associated ground-support equipment.

(c) The head of an agency may submit to the President, through the Chair of CEQ, a request for an exemption of an agency activity and related personnel, resources, and facilities from this order for any reason not otherwise addressed by subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

 . 603

.

Definitions

. As used in this order:

(a) "24/7 carbon pollution-free electricity" means carbon pollution-free electricity procured to match actual electricity consumption on an hourly basis and produced within the same regional grid where the energy is consumed;

(b) "Agency" means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, excluding   and independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5);

(c) "Buy clean" means a policy to promote purchase of construction materials with lower embodied emissions, taking into account the life-cycle emissions associated with the production of those materials;

(d) "Carbon pollution-free electricity" means electrical energy produced from resources that generate no carbon emissions, including marine energy, solar, wind, hydrokinetic (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal, hydroelectric, nuclear, renewably sourced hydrogen, and electrical energy generation from fossil resources to the extent there is active capture and storage of carbon dioxide emissions that meets   requirements;

(e) "Embodied emissions" means the quantity of emissions, accounting for all stages of production including upstream processing and extraction of fuels and feedstocks, emitted to the atmosphere due to the production of a product per unit of such product;

(f) "Federal Leaders working group" means a working group, composed of Deputy Secretaries or equivalents, that provides recommendations to the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer and   on implementation and reports on actions and progress toward the goals of this order;

(g) " " means   established pursuant to section 203 of Executive Order  ;

(h) "Principal agencies" means  , the  ,   (including  ),  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy,  ,  , and  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ; and  .

 . 604

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   of   ( ), is revoked.

 . 605

.

Determination

. Pursuant to section 742(b) of Public Law 111-117, I have determined that this order will achieve equal or better environmental or energy efficiency results than Executive Order   of   (Strengthening  , and  ).

 . 606

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
