Section 1

.

Policy

. Over 40 million foreign-born individuals live in    . Millions more   have immigrants in their families or ancestry.   and their children fuel our economy, working in every industry, including healthcare, construction, caregiving, manufacturing, service, and agriculture. They open and successfully run businesses at high rates, creating jobs for millions, and they contribute to our arts, culture, and government, providing new traditions, customs, and viewpoints. They are essential workers helping to keep our economy afloat and providing important services to   during a global pandemic. They have helped   lead the world in science, technology, and innovation. And they are on the frontlines of research to develop coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) vaccines and treatments for those afflicted with the deadly disease.

Consistent with our character as a Nation of opportunity and of welcome, it is essential to ensure that our laws and policies encourage full participation by immigrants, including refugees, in our civic life; that immigration processes and other benefits are delivered effectively and efficiently; and that   eliminates sources of fear and other barriers that prevent immigrants from accessing government services available to them. Our Nation is enriched socially and economically by the presence of immigrants, and we celebrate with them as they take the important step of becoming   citizens.   should develop welcoming strategies that promote integration, inclusion, and citizenship, and it should embrace the full participation of the newest   in our democracy.

 . 2

.

Role of  

. The role of   (DPC) is to convene executive departments and agencies (agencies) to coordinate the formulation and implementation of my  's domestic policy objectives. Consistent with that role, the DPC shall coordinate   efforts to welcome and support immigrants, including refugees, and to catalyze   and local integration and inclusion efforts. In furtherance of these goals, the DPC shall convene a Task Force on  , which shall include members of agencies that implement policies that impact immigrant communities.

 . 3

.

Restoring Trust in our  

. The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall review existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any other similar agency actions (collectively, agency actions) that may be inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(a) In conducting this review, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall:

(i) identify barriers that impede access to immigration benefits and fair, efficient adjudications of these benefits and make recommendations on how to remove these barriers, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; and

(ii) identify any agency actions that fail to promote access to the legal immigration system—such as the final rule entitled, "  and Changes to Certain Other Immigration Benefit Request Requirements," 85  .  .   ( ), in light of   (title I of division D of Public Law 116-159)—and recommend steps, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to revise or rescind those agency actions.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall each submit a plan to the President describing the steps their respective agencies will take to advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(c) Within   of submitting the plan described in subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall each submit a report to the President describing the progress of their respective agencies towards implementing the plan developed pursuant to subsection (b) of this section and recognizing any areas of concern or barriers to implementing the plan.

 . 4

.

  on Public Charge Inadmissibility

. The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, as appropriate, shall review all agency actions related to implementation of the public charge ground of inadmissibility in section 212(a)(4) of   (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(4), and the related ground of deportability in section 237(a)(5) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(5). They shall, in considering the effects and implications of public charge policies, consult with the heads of relevant agencies, including the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  .

(a) This review should:

(i) consider and evaluate the current effects of these agency actions and the implications of their continued implementation in light of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order;

(ii) identify appropriate agency actions, if any, to address concerns about the current public charge policies' effect on the integrity of the  's immigration system and public health; and

(iii) recommend steps that relevant agencies should take to clearly communicate current public charge policies and proposed changes, if any, to reduce fear and confusion among impacted communities.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall each submit a report to the President describing any agency actions identified pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) of this section and any steps their agencies intend to take or have taken, consistent with subsection (a)(iii) of this section.

 . 5

.

 

.

(a)

Improving the naturalization process

. The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall, within   of the date of this order, develop a plan describing any agency actions, in furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, that they will take to:

(i) eliminate barriers in and otherwise improve the existing naturalization process, including by conducting a comprehensive review of that process with particular emphasis on the   application, fingerprinting, background and security checks, interviews, civics and English language tests, and the oath of allegiance;

(ii) substantially reduce current naturalization processing times; (iii) make the naturalization process more accessible to all eligible individuals, including through a potential reduction of the naturalization fee and restoration of the fee waiver process;

(iv) facilitate naturalization for eligible candidates born abroad and members of the military, in consultation with  ; and

(v) review policies and practices regarding denaturalization and passport revocation to ensure that these authorities are not used excessively or inappropriately.

(b)

Implementing improvements to the naturalization process

. Within   of the issuance of the plan developed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of   shall each submit a report to the President describing the progress in implementing the plan, any barriers to implementing the plan, and any additional areas of concern that should be addressed to ensure that eligible individuals are able to apply for naturalization in a fair and efficient manner.

(c)

Strategy to promote naturalization

. There is established   on   ( ) to develop a national strategy to promote naturalization.   shall be chaired by the Secretary of  , or the Secretary's designee, and it shall include the heads of the following agencies, or senior-level officials designated by the head of each agency:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi)  ; and

(vii) the heads of other agencies invited to participate by   chair.

(d) Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit a strategy to the President outlining steps   should take to promote naturalization, including the potential development of a public awareness campaign.

 . 6

.

Revocation

.   of   (Enforcing the Legal Responsibilities of Sponsors of Aliens), is revoked. The heads of relevant agencies shall review any investigations or compliance actions initiated pursuant to that memorandum and shall determine whether to suspend, as appropriate, any investigations or compliance actions inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order. The heads of relevant agencies shall review any agency actions developed pursuant to that memorandum and, as appropriate, issue revised guidance consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
