Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to respect and value the integrity of families seeking to enter  . My Administration condemns the human tragedy that occurred when our immigration laws were used to intentionally separate children from their parents or legal guardians (families), including through the use of  . My Administration will protect family unity and ensure that children entering   are not separated from their families, except in the most extreme circumstances where a separation is clearly necessary for the safety and well-being of the child or is required by law.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. There is hereby established an   on   (Task Force).

 . 3

.

Membership

. (a) The Task Force shall include the following members or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as a Vice Chair;

(iii) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as a Vice Chair;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) such other officers or employees of  ,  ,  , and  , as the head of each respective department may designate; and

(vi) such other officers or employees of executive departments and agencies (agencies) as the   or Vice   may invite to participate, with the concurrence of the head of the agency concerned.

(b) The   shall convene and preside at meetings of  . The  , in consultation with the Vice Chairs, shall direct its work and, as appropriate, establish and direct subgroups of  .

 . 4

.

Functions

. The Task Force shall, consistent with applicable law, perform the following functions:

(a) Identifying all children who were separated from their families at  -Mexico border  , and  , in connection with the operation of  ;

(b) To the greatest extent possible, facilitating and enabling the reunification of each of the identified children with their families by:

(i) providing recommendations to heads of agencies concerning the exercise of any agency authorities necessary to reunite the children with their families, including: (A) recommendations regarding the possible exercise of parole under section 212(d)(5)(A) of    , as amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)(A)), or the issuance of visas or other immigration benefits, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law;

(B) recommendations regarding the provision of additional services and support to the children and their families, including trauma and mental health services; and

(C) recommendations regarding reunification of any additional family members of the children who were separated, such as siblings, where there is a compelling humanitarian interest in doing so;

(ii) providing recommendations to the President concerning the exercise of any Presidential authorities necessary to reunite the children with their families, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; and

(iii) for purposes of developing the recommendations described in this subsection, and in particular with respect to recommendations regarding the manner and location of reunification, consulting with the children, their families, representatives of the children and their families, and other stakeholders, and considering the families' preferences and parental rights as well as the children's well-being; and

(c) Providing regular reports to the President, including:

(i) an initial progress report   after the date of this order;

(ii) interim progress reports every   thereafter;

(iii) a report containing recommendations to ensure that   will not repeat the policies and practices leading to the separation of families at the border,   after the date of this order; and

(iv) a final report when   has completed its mission.

 . 5

.

Task Force Administration

. (a) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the funding and administrative support the Task Force needs to implement this order, as determined by the Secretary of  .

(b) To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C.  ), and subject to the availability of appropriations, additional agencies represented on   may detail staff to  , or otherwise provide administrative support, as necessary to implement this order, as determined by the respective heads of agencies.

(c) The Task Force shall coordinate, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, with relevant stakeholders, including domestic and international non-governmental organizations, and representatives of the children and their families.

(d)  , at the direction of the  , may hold public meetings and engagement sessions as necessary to carry out its mission.

(e) The Task Force shall terminate   after it provides its final report to the President under section 4(c)(iv) of this order.

 . 6

.

Revocation of Executive Order  

. Executive Order   (  an Opportunity To Address Family Separation), is hereby revoked.

 . 7

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "children" includes all persons who were under   at the time they were separated from their families at the border.

(b) The term "Zero-Tolerance Policy" means the policy discussed in the Attorney General's memorandum of  , entitled, "Zero-Tolerance for Offenses Under 8 U.S.C. § 1325(a)," and any other related policy, program, practice, or initiative resulting in the separation of children from their families at  -Mexico border.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
