Section 1

.

Policy

. Adversarial countries and criminals continue to conduct cyber campaigns targeting   and  , with   presenting the most active and persistent cyber threat to  , private sector, and critical infrastructure networks. These campaigns disrupt the delivery of critical services across the  , cost billions of dollars, and undermine  ' security and privacy. More must be done to improve the  's cybersecurity against these threats.

Building on the foundational steps I directed in Executive Order   of   (Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity), and the initiatives detailed in  , I am ordering additional actions to improve our  's cybersecurity, focusing on defending our digital infrastructure, securing the services and capabilities most vital to the digital domain, and building our capability to address key threats, including those from  . Improving accountability for software and cloud service providers, strengthening the security of Federal communications and identity management systems, and promoting innovative developments and the use of emerging technologies for cybersecurity across executive departments and agencies (agencies) and with the private sector are especially critical to improvement of the  's cybersecurity.

 . 2

.

Operationalizing Transparency and Security in Third-Party Software Supply Chains

. (a)   and our  's critical infrastructure rely on software providers. Yet insecure software remains a challenge for both providers and users and makes   and critical infrastructure systems vulnerable to malicious cyber incidents.   must continue to adopt secure software acquisition practices and take steps so that software providers use secure software development practices to reduce the number and severity of vulnerabilities in software they produce.

(b) Executive   directed actions to improve the security and integrity of software critical to   ability to function. Executive   directed the development of guidance on secure software development practices and on generating and providing evidence in the form of artifacts—computer records or data that are generated manually or by automated means—that demonstrate compliance with those practices. Additionally, it directed the Director of   (OMB) to require agencies to use only software from providers that attest to using those secure software development practices. In some instances, providers of software to   commit to following cybersecurity practices, yet do not fix well-known exploitable vulnerabilities in their software, which puts the Government at risk of compromise.   needs to adopt more rigorous third-party risk management practices and greater assurance that software providers that support critical Government services are following the practices to which they attest.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of   (NIST), and the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of   (CISA), shall recommend to   ( ) contract language requiring software providers to submit to   through  's   ( ):

(A) machine-readable secure software development attestations;

(B) high-level artifacts to validate those attestations; and

(C) a list of the providers'   ( ) agency software customers.

(ii) Within   of the receipt of the recommendations described in subsection (b)(i) of this section, the   shall review the recommendations and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  ,  , and the Administrator of   (the agency members of  ) shall jointly take steps to amend   (FAR) to implement those recommendations. The agency members of   are strongly encouraged to consider issuing an interim final rule, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(iii) Within   of the issuance of the recommendations described in subsection (b)(i) of this section, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall evaluate emerging methods of generating, receiving, and verifying machine-readable secure software development attestations and artifacts and, as appropriate, shall provide guidance for software providers on submitting them to  's   website, including a common data schema and format.

(iv) Within   of the date of any amendments to the   described in subsection (b)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall develop a program to centrally verify the completeness of all attestation forms. CISA shall continuously validate a sample of the complete attestations using high-level artifacts in the  .

(v) If CISA finds that attestations are incomplete or artifacts are insufficient for validating the attestations, the Director of CISA shall notify the software provider and the contracting agency. The Director of CISA shall provide a process for the software provider to respond to  's initial determination and shall duly consider the response.

(vi) For attestations that undergo validation, the Director of CISA shall inform the National Cyber Director, who shall publicly post the results, identifying the software providers and software version. The National Cyber Director is encouraged to refer attestations that fail validation to the Attorney General for action as appropriate.

(c) Secure software development practices are not sufficient to address the potential for cyber incidents from resourced and determined nation-state actors. To mitigate the risk of such incidents occurring, software providers must also address how software is delivered and the security of the software itself.   must identify a coordinated set of practical and effective security practices to require when it procures software.

(i) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall establish a consortium with industry at   to develop guidance, informed by the consortium as appropriate, that demonstrates the implementation of secure software development, security, and operations practices based on NIST Special Publication 800-218 (

Secure Software Development Framework

( )).

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall update NIST Special Publication 800-53 (

Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations

) to provide guidance on how to securely and reliably deploy patches and updates.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , in consultation with the heads of such agencies as the Director of NIST deems appropriate, shall develop and publish a preliminary update to the  . This update shall include practices, procedures, controls, and implementation examples regarding the secure and reliable development and delivery of software as well as the security of the software itself. Within   of publishing the preliminary update, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall publish a final version of the updated  .

(iv) Within   of the final update to the   described in subsection (c)(iii) of this section, the Director of OMB shall incorporate select practices for the secure development and delivery of software contained in  's updated SSDF into the requirements of OMB Memorandum M-22-18 (

Enhancing the Security of the Software Supply Chain through  

) or related requirements.

(v) Within   of the issuance of  's updated requirements described in subsection (c)(iv) of this section, the Director of CISA shall prepare any revisions to  's common form for   to conform to  's requirements and shall initiate any process required to obtain clearance of the revised form under the Paperwork Reduction Act,   U.S.C.  

et seq

.

(d) As agencies have improved their cyber defenses, adversaries have targeted the weak links in agency supply chains and the products and services upon which   relies. Agencies need to integrate cybersecurity supply chain risk management programs into enterprise-wide risk management activities. Within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB, in coordination with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST,  , and   (FASC), shall take steps to require, as the Director deems appropriate, that agencies comply with the guidance in NIST Special Publication 800-161 (

Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations

(SP 800-161 Revision 1)). OMB shall require agencies to provide   updates to OMB as they complete implementation. Consistent with SP 800-161 Revision 1,  's requirements shall address the integration of cybersecurity into the acquisition lifecycle through acquisition planning, source selection, responsibility determination, security compliance evaluation, contract administration, and performance evaluation.

(e) Open source software plays a critical role in Federal information systems. To help   continue to reap the innovation and cost benefits of open source software and contribute to the cybersecurity of the open source software ecosystem, agencies must better manage their use of open source software. Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, and the Director of OMB, in consultation with   and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall jointly issue recommendations to agencies on the use of security assessments and patching of open source software and best practices for contributing to open source software projects.

 . 3

.

Improving  

. (a)   must adopt proven security practices from industry—to include in identity and access management—in order to improve visibility of security threats across networks and strengthen cloud security.

(b) To prioritize investments in the innovative identity technologies and processes of the future and phishing-resistant authentication options,   agencies shall begin using, in pilot deployments or in larger deployments as appropriate, commercial phishing-resistant standards such as  , building on the deployments that OMB and   have developed and established since the issuance of Executive Order  . These pilot deployments shall be used to inform future directions for Federal identity, credentialing, and access management strategies.

(c)   must maintain the ability to rapidly and effectively identify threats across the Federal enterprise. In Executive Order  , I directed the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   to establish procedures to immediately share threat information to strengthen the collective defense of   and civilian networks. To enable identification of threat activity,  's capability to hunt for and identify threats across   agencies under 44 U.S.C. 3553(b)(7) must be strengthened.

(i) The Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, in coordination with the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO) Council and   Officer (CISO) Council, shall develop the technical capability to gain timely access to required data from   agency endpoint detection and response ( ) solutions and from   agency security operation centers to enable:

(A) timely hunting and identification of novel cyber threats and vulnerabilities across the   civilian enterprise;

(B) identification of coordinated cyber campaigns that simultaneously target multiple agencies and move laterally across the   enterprise; and

(C) coordination of Government-wide efforts on information security policies and practices, including compilation and analysis of information about incidents that threaten information security.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, in coordination with   and  , shall develop and release a concept of operations that enables   to gain timely access to required data to achieve the objectives described in subsection (c)(i) of this section. The Director of OMB shall oversee the development of this concept of operations to account for agency perspectives and the objectives outlined in this section and shall approve the final concept of operations. This concept of operations shall include:

(A) requirements for   agencies to provide CISA with data of sufficient completeness and on the timeline required to enable   to achieve the objectives described in subsection (c)(i) of this section;

(B) requirements for CISA to provide   agencies with advanced notification when   directly accesses agency   solutions to obtain required telemetry;

(C) specific use cases for which agencies may provide telemetry data subject to the requirements in subsection (c)(ii)(A) of this section as opposed to direct access to   solutions by  ;

(D) high-level technical and policy control requirements to govern CISA access to agency   solutions that conform with widely accepted cybersecurity principles, including role-based access controls, "least privilege," and separation of duties;

(E) specific protections for highly sensitive agency data that is subject to statutory, regulatory, or judicial restrictions to protect confidentiality or integrity; and

(F) an appendix to the concept of operations that identifies and addresses certain types of specific use cases under subsection (c)(ii)(C) of this section that apply to  , including certain categories of information described in subsections (c)(vi) and (c)(vii) of this section, and requires   concurrence on the terms of the appendix prior to implementation of the concept of operations on   or its subcomponents' networks.

(iii) In undertaking the activities described in subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall only make a change to an agency network, system, or data when such change is required for threat hunting by  , including access to the   tools described in subsection (c)(ii) of this section, or in furtherance of its authority to conduct threat hunting as authorized under 44 U.S.C. 3553(b)(7), unless otherwise authorized by the agency.

(iv) Within   of the release of the concept of operations described in subsection (c)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall establish working groups, open to all agencies, to develop and release specific technical controls that achieve the objectives set forth in subsection (c)(ii) of this section and to work with   solution providers to implement those controls in   agency deployments of   solutions. The Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall, at a minimum, establish a working group for each   solution authorized by CISA for use in the CISA Continuous Diagnostic and  . Each working group shall be open to all agencies and include at least one representative from an   agency employing the designated   solution.

(v) Within   of the release of the technical controls described in subsection (c)(iv) of this section, the heads of   agencies shall enroll endpoints using an   solution covered by those controls in   program.

(vi) Within   of the date of this order, and periodically thereafter as needed, the heads of   agencies shall provide to CISA a list of systems, endpoints, and data sets that require additional controls or periods of non-disruption to ensure that  's threat-hunting activities do not disrupt mission-critical operations, along with an explanation of those operations.

(vii) In cases in which agency data is subject to statutory, regulatory, or judicial access restrictions, the Director of CISA shall comply with agency processes and procedures required to access such data or work with the agency to develop an appropriate administrative accommodation consistent with any such restrictions so that the data is not subject to unauthorized access or use.

(viii) Nothing in this order requires an agency to provide access to information that is protected from non-disclosure by court order or otherwise required to be kept confidential in connection with a judicial proceeding.

(d) The security of Federal information systems relies on the security of the Government's cloud services. Within   of the date of this order,  , acting through the Director of   (FedRAMP), in coordination with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, and the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall develop FedRAMP policies and practices to incentivize or require cloud service providers in the FedRAMP Marketplace to produce baselines with specifications and recommendations for agency configuration of agency cloud-based systems in order to secure   data based on agency requirements.

(e) As cybersecurity threats to space systems increase, these systems and their supporting digital infrastructure must be designed to adapt to evolving cybersecurity threats and operate in contested environments. In light of the pivotal role space systems play in global critical infrastructure and communications resilience, and to further protect space systems and the supporting digital infrastructure vital to our national security, including our economic security, agencies shall take steps to continually verify that Federal space systems have the requisite cybersecurity capabilities through actions including continuous assessments, testing, exercises, and modeling and simulation.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the Administrator of  ; and   shall each review the civil space contract requirements in the FAR and recommend to   and other appropriate agencies updates to civil space cybersecurity requirements and relevant contract language. The recommended cybersecurity requirements and contract language shall use a risk-based, tiered approach for all new civil space systems. Such requirements shall be designed to apply at minimum to the civil space systems' on-orbit segments and link segments. The requirements shall address the following elements for the highest-risk tier and, as appropriate, other tiers:

(A) protection of command and control of the civil space system, including backup or failover systems, by:

(1) encrypting commands to protect the confidentiality of communications;

(2) ensuring commands are not modified in transit;

(3) ensuring an authorized party is the source of commands; and

(4) rejecting unauthorized command and control attempts;

(B) establishment of methods to detect, report, and recover from anomalous network or system activity; and

(C) use of secure software and hardware development practices, consistent with the NIST SSDF or any successor documents.

(ii) Within   of receiving the recommended contract language described in subsection (e)(i) of this section, the   shall review the proposal and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the   shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR.

(iii) Within   of this order, the National Cyber Director shall submit to OMB a study of space ground systems owned, managed, or operated by   agencies. This study shall include:

(A) an inventory of space ground systems;

(B) whether each space ground system is classified as a major information system under 44 U.S.C. 3505(c), labeled "Inventory of major information systems"; and

(C) recommendations to improve the cyber defenses and oversight of such space ground systems.

(iv) Within   of the submission of the study described in subsection (e)(iii) of this section, the Director of OMB shall take appropriate steps to help ensure that space ground systems owned, managed, or operated by   agencies comply with relevant cybersecurity requirements issued by OMB.

 . 4

.

 

. (a) To improve the security of   communications against adversarial nations and criminals,   must implement, to the extent practicable and consistent with mission needs, strong identity authentication and encryption using modern, standardized, and commercially available algorithms and protocols.

(b) The security of Internet traffic depends on data being correctly routed and delivered to the intended recipient network. Routing information originated and propagated across the Internet, utilizing the Border Gateway Protocol ( ), is vulnerable to attack and misconfiguration.

(i) Within   of the date of this order,   agencies shall take steps to ensure that all of their assigned Internet number resources (Internet Protocol ( ) address blocks and  ) are covered by a Registration Services Agreement with   or another appropriate regional Internet registry. Thereafter,   agencies shall annually review and update in their regional Internet registry accounts organizational identifiers related to assigned number resources such as organization names, points of contact, and associated email addresses.

(ii) Within   of this order, all   agencies that hold   address blocks shall create and publish   in the public Resource Public Key Infrastructure repository hosted or delegated by   or the appropriate regional Internet registry for the   address blocks they hold.

(iii) Within   of this order, the National Cyber Director, in coordination with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall recommend contract language to   to require contracted providers of Internet services to agencies to adopt and deploy Internet routing security technologies, including publishing   and performing   filtering. The recommended language shall include requirements or exceptions, as appropriate, for agency contracts regarding overseas operations and overseas local service providers. Within   of receiving these recommendations, the   shall review the recommended contract language and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the   shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR. Pending any such amendments to the FAR, individual agencies are encouraged to include such requirements in future contracts, consistent with applicable law.

(iv) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall publish updated guidance to agencies on deployment of current, operationally viable   security methods for   networks and service providers. The Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall also provide updated guidance on other emerging technologies to improve Internet routing security and resilience, such as route leak mitigation and source address validation.

(c) Encrypting Domain Name System ( ) traffic in transit is a critical step to protecting both the confidentiality of the information being transmitted to, and the integrity of the communication with, the   resolver.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall publish template contract language requiring that any product that acts as a   resolver (whether client or server) for the   support encrypted   and shall recommend that language to  . Within   of receiving the recommended language, the FAR Council shall review it, and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the   shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order,   agencies shall enable encrypted   protocols wherever their existing clients and servers support those protocols. FCEB agencies shall also enable such protocols within   of any additional clients and servers supporting such protocols.

(d)   must encrypt email messages in transport and, where practical, use end-to-end encryption in order to protect messages from compromise.

(i) Within   of this order, each   agency shall technically enforce encrypted and authenticated transport for all connections between the agency's email clients and their associated email servers.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB shall establish a requirement for expanded use of authenticated transport-layer encryption between email servers used by   agencies to send and receive email.

(iii) Within   of the establishment of the requirement described in subsection (d)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall take appropriate steps to assist agencies in meeting that requirement, including by issuing implementing directives, as well as technical guidance to address any identified capability gaps.

(e) Modern communications such as voice and video conferencing and instant messaging are usually encrypted at the link level but often are not encrypted end-to-end. Within   of the date of this order, to advance the security of Internet-based voice and video conferencing and instant messaging, the Director of OMB, in coordination with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA; the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of   ( ); the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the   of  , acting through the Chief Records Officer for  ; and   shall take appropriate steps to require agencies to:

(i) enable transport encryption by default; and

(ii) where technically supported, use end-to-end encryption by default while maintaining logging and archival capabilities that allow agencies to fulfill records management and accountability requirements.

(f) Alongside their benefits,   computers pose significant risk to the national security, including the economic security, of  . Most notably, a quantum computer of sufficient size and sophistication—also known as a cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer (CRQC)—will be capable of breaking much of the public-key cryptography used on digital systems across   and around the world. In   Memorandum 10 of   (  States Leadership in Quantum Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic Systems), I directed   to prepare for a transition to cryptographic algorithms that would not be vulnerable to a CRQC.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall release and thereafter regularly update a list of product categories in which products that support post-quantum cryptography ( ) are widely available.

(ii) Within   of a product category being placed on the list described in subsection (f)(i) of this section, agencies shall take steps to include in any solicitations for products in that category a requirement that products support  .

(iii) Agencies shall implement   key establishment or hybrid key establishment including a   algorithm as soon as practicable upon support being provided by network security products and services already deployed in their network architectures.

(iv) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST and the Under Secretary for  , shall identify and engage foreign governments and industry groups in key countries to encourage their transition to   algorithms standardized by  .

(v) Within   of the date of this order, to prepare for transition to  , the Secretary of   with respect to   ( ), and the Director of OMB with respect to  , shall each issue requirements for agencies to support, as soon as practicable, but not   January 2,  ,   protocol version 1.3 or a successor version.

(g)   should take advantage of commercial security technologies and architectures, such as hardware security modules, trusted execution environments, and other isolation technologies, to protect and audit access to cryptographic keys with extended lifecycles.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, and   shall develop guidelines for the secure management of access tokens and cryptographic keys used by cloud service providers.

(ii) Within   of the publication of the guidelines described in subsection (g)(i) of this section,  , acting through the FedRAMP Director, in consultation with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, and the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA, shall develop updated FedRAMP requirements, incorporating the guidelines described in subsection (g)(i) of this section, as appropriate and consistent with guidance issued by the Director of OMB, concerning cryptographic key management security practices.

(iii) Within   of the publication of the guidelines described in subsection (g)(i) of this section, the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA; and   shall take appropriate steps to require   agencies to follow best practices concerning the protection and management of hardware security modules, trusted execution environments, or other isolation technologies for access tokens and cryptographic keys used by cloud service providers in the provision of services to agencies.

 . 5

.

Solutions to   and  

. (a) The use of stolen and synthetic identities by criminal syndicates to systemically defraud public benefits programs costs taxpayers and wastes   funds. To help address these crimes it is the policy of the executive branch to strongly encourage the acceptance of digital identity documents to access public benefits programs that require identity verification, so long as it is done in a manner that preserves broad program access for vulnerable populations and supports the principles of privacy, data minimization, and interoperability.

(i) Within   of the date of this order, agencies with grantmaking authority are encouraged to consider, in coordination with OMB and   staff, whether   grant funding is available to assist   in developing and issuing mobile driver's licenses that achieve the policies and principles described in this section.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , shall issue practical implementation guidance, in collaboration with relevant agencies and other stakeholders through  , to support remote digital identity verification using digital identity documents that will help issuers and verifiers of digital identity documents advance the policies and principles described in this section.

(iii) Agencies should consider accepting digital identity documents as digital identity verification evidence to access public benefits programs, but only if the use of these documents is consistent with the policies and principles described in this section.

(iv) Agencies should, consistent with applicable law, seek to ensure that digital identity documents accepted as digital identity verification evidence to access public benefits programs:

(A) are interoperable with relevant standards and trust frameworks, so that the public can use any standards-compliant hardware or software containing an official Government-issued digital identity document, regardless of manufacturer or developer;

(B) do not enable authorities that issue digital identity documents, device manufacturers, or any other third party to surveil or track presentation of the digital identity document, including user device location at the time of presentation; and

(C) support user privacy and data minimization by ensuring only the minimum information required for a transaction—often a "yes" or "no" response to a question, such as whether an individual is older than a specific age—is requested from the holder of the digital identity document.

(b) The use of "Yes/No" validation services, also referred to as attribute validation services, can enable more privacy-preserving means to reduce identity fraud. These services allow programs to confirm, via a privacy-preserving "yes" or "no" response, that applicant-provided identity information is consistent with information already contained in official records, without needing to share the contents of those official records. To support the use of such services,  , and the head of any other agency designated by the Director of OMB, shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider taking steps to develop or modify services—including through, as appropriate, the initiation of a proposed rulemaking or the publication of a notice of a new or significantly modified routine use of records—related to Government-operated identity verification systems and public benefits programs, with consideration given to having such systems and programs submit applicant-provided identity information to the agency providing the service and receive a "yes" or "no" response as to whether the applicant-provided identity information is consistent with the information on file with the agency providing the service. In doing so, the heads of these agencies shall specifically consider seeking to ensure, consistent with applicable law, that:

(i) any applicant-provided identity information submitted to the services and any "yes" or "no" response provided by the services are used only to assist with identity verification, program administration, anti-fraud operations, or investigation and prosecution of fraud related to the public benefits program for which the identity information was submitted;

(ii) the services are made available, to the maximum extent permissible and as appropriate, to public benefits programs; Government-operated identity verification systems, including shared-service providers; payment integrity programs; and  -regulated financial institutions; and

(iii) the agencies, public benefits programs, or institutions using the services provide reimbursement to appropriately cover costs and support the ongoing maintenance, improvement, and broad accessibility of the services.

(c) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with  , shall research, develop, and conduct a pilot program for technology that notifies individuals and entities when their identity information is used to request a payment from a public benefits program, gives individuals and entities the option to stop potentially fraudulent transactions before they occur, and reports fraudulent transactions to law enforcement entities.

 . 6

.

Promoting Security with and in  

. Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to transform cyber defense by rapidly identifying new vulnerabilities, increasing the scale of threat detection techniques, and automating cyber defense.   must accelerate the development and deployment of  , explore ways to improve the cybersecurity of critical infrastructure using  , and accelerate research at the intersection of   and cybersecurity.

(a) Within   of the date of the completion of     Artificial Intelligence Cyber Challenge, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , and the Secretary of  , shall launch a pilot program, involving collaboration with private sector critical infrastructure entities as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, on the use of   to enhance cyber defense of critical infrastructure in the energy sector, and conduct an assessment of the pilot program upon its completion. This pilot program, and accompanying assessment, may include vulnerability detection, automatic patch management, and the identification and categorization of anomalous and malicious activity across information technology (IT) or operational technology systems.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall establish a program to use advanced   models for cyber defense.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Under Secretary for  ; and the Director of   ( ) shall each prioritize funding for their respective programs that encourage the development of large-scale, labeled datasets needed to make progress on cyber defense research, and ensure that existing datasets for cyber defense research have been made accessible to the broader academic research community (either securely or publicly) to the maximum extent feasible, in consideration of business confidentiality and national security.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Under Secretary for  ; and the Director of the   shall prioritize research on the following topics:

(i) human-AI interaction methods to assist defensive cyber analysis;

(ii) security of   coding assistance, including security of  -generated code;

(iii) methods for designing secure   systems; and

(iv) methods for prevention, response, remediation, and recovery of cyber incidents involving   systems.

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall incorporate management of   software vulnerabilities and compromises into their respective agencies' existing processes and interagency coordination mechanisms for vulnerability management, including through incident tracking, response, and reporting, and by sharing indicators of compromise for   systems.

 . 7

.

Aligning Policy to Practice

. (a) IT infrastructure and networks that support agencies' critical missions need to be modernized. Agencies' policies must align investments and priorities to improve network visibility and security controls to reduce cyber risks.

(i) Within   of this order, the Director of OMB shall issue guidance, including any necessary revision to OMB Circular A-130, to address critical risks and adapt modern practices and architectures across Federal information systems and networks. This guidance shall, at a minimum:

(A) outline expectations for agency cybersecurity information sharing and exchange, enterprise visibility, and accountability for enterprise-wide cybersecurity programs by agency CISOs;

(B) revise OMB Circular A-130 to be less technically prescriptive in key areas, where appropriate, to more clearly promote the adoption of evolving cybersecurity best practices across   systems, and to include migration to zero trust architectures and implementation of critical elements such as   capabilities, encryption, network segmentation, and phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication; and

(C) address how agencies should identify, assess, respond to, and mitigate risks to mission essential functions presented by concentration of IT vendors and services.

(ii) The Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of CISA; and the Director of OMB shall establish a pilot program of a rules-as-code approach for machine-readable versions of policy and guidance that OMB,  , and   publish and manage regarding cybersecurity.

(b) Managing cybersecurity risks is now a part of everyday industry practice and should be expected for all types of businesses. Minimum cybersecurity requirements can make it costlier and harder for threat actors to compromise networks. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , shall evaluate common cybersecurity practices and security control outcomes that are commonly used or recommended across industry sectors, international standards bodies, and other risk management programs, and based on that evaluation issue guidance identifying minimum cybersecurity practices. In developing this guidance, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , shall solicit input from  , the private sector, academia, and other appropriate actors.

(c) Agencies face multiple cybersecurity risks when purchasing products and services. While agencies have already made significant advances to improve their supply chain risk management, additional actions are needed to keep pace with the evolving threat landscape. Within   of the issuance of the guidance described in subsection (b) of this section, the   shall review the guidance and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the   shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR to:

(i) require that contractors with the   follow applicable minimum cybersecurity practices identified in  's guidance pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with respect to work performed under agency contracts or when developing, maintaining, or supporting IT services or products that are provided to  ; and

(ii) adopt requirements for agencies to, by  , require vendors to   of consumer Internet-of-Things products, as defined by 47 C.F.R. 8.203(b), to carry   labeling for those products.

 . 8

.

  and Debilitating Impact Systems

. (a) Except as specifically provided for in section 4(f)(v) of this order, sections 1 through 7 of this order shall not apply to Federal information systems that are   or are otherwise identified by   or   as debilitating impact systems.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, to help ensure that   and debilitating impact systems are protected with the most advanced security measures, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NSA as the National Manager for   (National Manager), in coordination with the Director of   and   (CNSS), and in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), shall develop requirements for   and debilitating impact systems that are consistent with the requirements set forth in this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of   may grant exceptions to such requirements in circumstances necessitated by unique mission needs. Such requirements shall be incorporated into a proposed  , to be submitted to the President through the APNSA.

(c) To help protect space   with cybersecurity measures that keep pace with emerging threats, within   of the date of this order, the CNSS shall review and update, as appropriate, relevant policies and guidance regarding space system cybersecurity. In addition to appropriate updates, the CNSS shall identify and address appropriate requirements to implement cyber defenses on  -procured space   in the areas of intrusion detection, use of hardware roots of trust for secure booting, and development and deployment of security patches.

(d) To enhance the effective governance and oversight of Federal information systems, within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB shall issue guidance as appropriate requiring agencies to inventory all major information systems and provide the inventory to  ,  , or the National Manager, as applicable, which shall each maintain a registry of agency inventories within their purview.  ,  , and the National Manager will share their inventories as appropriate to identify gaps or overlaps in oversight coverage. This guidance shall not apply to elements of  .

(e) Nothing in this order alters the authorities and responsibilities granted in law or policy to the Director of  , the Secretary of  , and the   Manager over applicable systems pursuant to the National Security Act of 1947 (Public Law 80-253),   of   (Public Law 113-283),   Directive   (National Policy for the Security of National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems), or   Memorandum 8 of   (Improving  , and  ).

 . 9

.

Additional Steps to Combat Significant  

. Because I find that additional steps must be taken to deal with the national emergency with respect to significant malicious cyber-enabled activities declared in Executive Order   of   (Blocking   in Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), as amended by Executive Order   of   (Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), and further amended by Executive Order 13984 of   (  the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), to protect against the growing and evolving threat of malicious cyber-enabled activities against   and   allies and partners, including the increasing threats by foreign actors of unauthorized access to critical infrastructure, ransomware, and cyber-enabled intrusions and sanctions evasion, I hereby order that section 1(a) of Executive Order   is further amended to read as follows:

"

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) the persons listed in the   to this order;

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, cyber-enabled activities originating from, or directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside   that are reasonably likely to result in, or have materially contributed to, a threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of  , and that have the purpose of or involve:

(A) harming, or otherwise compromising the provision of services by, a computer or network of computers that support one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;

(B) compromising the provision of services by one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;

(C) causing a disruption to the availability of a computer or network of computers or compromising the integrity of the information stored on a computer or network of computers;

(D) causing a misappropriation of funds or economic resources, intellectual property, proprietary or business confidential information, personal identifiers, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain;

(E) tampering with, altering, or causing a misappropriation of information with the purpose of or that involves interfering with or undermining election processes or institutions; or

(F) engaging in a ransomware attack, such as extortion through malicious use of code, encryption, or other activity to affect the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of data or a computer or network of computers, against a   person,  ,   ally or partner or a citizen, national, or entity organized under the laws thereof; or

(iii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  :

(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, the receipt or use for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain, or by a commercial entity, outside   of funds or economic resources, intellectual property, proprietary or business confidential information, personal identifiers, or financial information misappropriated through cyber-enabled means, knowing they have been misappropriated, where the misappropriation of such funds or economic resources, intellectual property, proprietary or business confidential information, personal identifiers, or financial information is reasonably likely to result in, or has materially contributed to, a threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of  ;

(B) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, activities related to gaining or attempting to gain unauthorized access to a computer or network of computers of a   person,  ,   ally or partner or a citizen, national, or entity organized under the laws thereof, where such efforts originate from or are directed by persons located, in whole or substantial part, outside   and are reasonably likely to result in, or have materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of  ;

(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(D) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order or that has engaged in any activity described in subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)(A)-(C) of this section;

(E) to have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in subsections (a)(ii) and ( ) of this section; or

(F) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order or that has engaged in any activity described in subsections (a)(ii) or ( ) of this section."

 . 10

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "agency" has the meaning ascribed to it under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), except for the independent regulatory agencies described in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

(b) The term "artifact" means a record or data that is generated manually or by automated means and may be used to demonstrate compliance with defined practices, including for secure software development.

(c) The term "artificial intelligence" or "AI" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3).

(d) The term "AI system" means any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility that operates in whole or in part using  .

(e) The term "authentication" means the process of determining the validity of one or more authenticators, such as a password, used to claim a digital identity.

(f) The term "Border Gateway Protocol" or "BGP" means the control protocol used to distribute and compute paths between the tens of thousands of autonomous networks that constitute the Internet.

(g) The term "consumer Internet-of-Things products" means Internet-of-Things products intended primarily for consumer use, rather than enterprise or industrial use. Consumer Internet-of-Things products do not include medical devices regulated by   or motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment regulated by  .

(h) The term "cyber incident" has the meaning given to the term "incident" under 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(2).

(i) The term "debilitating impact systems" means systems as described by 44 U.S.C. 3553(e)(2) and 3553(e)(3) for   purposes, respectively.

(j) The term "digital identity document" means an electronic, reusable, cryptographically verifiable identity credential issued by a Government source, such as a  -issued mobile driver's license or an electronic passport.

(k) The term "digital identity verification" means identity verification that a user performs online.

(l) The term "endpoint" means any device that can be connected to a computer network creating an entry or exit point for data communications. Examples of endpoints include desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, servers, workstations, virtual machines, and consumer Internet-of-Things products.

(m) The term "endpoint detection and response" means cybersecurity tools and capabilities that combine real-time continuous monitoring and collection of endpoint data (for example, networked computing device such as workstations, mobile phones, servers) with rules-based automated response and analysis capabilities.

(n) The term "  agencies" or "FCEB agencies" includes all agencies except for the agencies and other components in   and agencies in  .

(o) The term "Federal information system" means an information system used or operated by an agency, a contractor of an agency, or another organization on behalf of an agency.

(p) The term "Government-operated identity verification system" means a system owned and operated by a Federal, State, local,  , or territorial Government entity that performs identity verification, including single-agency systems and shared services that provide service to multiple agencies.

(q) The term "hardware root of trust" means an inherently trusted combination of hardware and firmware that helps to maintain the integrity of information.

(r) The term "hybrid key establishment" means a key establishment scheme that is a combination of two or more components that are themselves cryptographic key-establishment schemes.

(s) The term "identity verification" means the process of collecting identity information or evidence, validating its legitimacy, and confirming that it is associated with the real person providing it.

(t) The term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given to it under 50 U.S.C. 3003(4).

(u) The term "key establishment" means the process by which a cryptographic key is securely shared between two or more entities.

(v) The term "least privilege" means the principle that a security architecture is designed so that each entity is granted the minimum system resources and authorizations that the entity needs to perform its function.

(w) The term "machine-readable" means that the product output is in a structured format that can be consumed by another program using consistent processing logic.

(x) The term "national security systems" or " " has the meaning given to it under 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(6).

(y) The term "patch" means a software component that, when installed, directly modifies files or device settings related to a different software component without changing the version number or release details for the related software component.

(z) The term "rules-as-code approach" means a coded version of rules (for example, those contained in legislation, regulation, or policy) that can be understood and used by a computer.

(aa) The term "secure booting" means a security feature that prevents malicious software from running when a computer system starts up. The security feature performs a series of checks during the boot sequence that helps ensure only trusted software is loaded.

(bb) The term "security control outcome" means the results of the performance or non-performance of safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.

(cc) The term "zero trust architecture" has the meaning given to it in Executive Order  .

 . 11

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
