Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to halt the spread of coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) by relying on the best available data and science-based public health measures. Such measures include wearing masks when around others, physical distancing, and other related precautions recommended by   ( ). Put simply, masks and other public health measures reduce the spread of the disease, particularly when communities make widespread use of such measures, and thus save lives.

Accordingly, to protect the Federal workforce and individuals interacting with the Federal workforce, and to ensure the continuity of Government services and activities, on-duty or on-site Federal employees, on-site Federal contractors, and other individuals in Federal buildings and on Federal lands should all wear masks, maintain physical distance, and adhere to other public health measures, as provided in   guidelines.

 . 2

.

Immediate Action Regarding Federal Employees, Contractors, Buildings, and  

. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall immediately take action, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to require compliance with   guidelines with respect to wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, and other public health measures by: on-duty or on-site Federal employees; on-site Federal contractors; and all persons in Federal buildings or on Federal lands.

(b) The Director of   (OMB), the Director of   (OPM), and  , in coordination with   and   and   to the President ( ), shall promptly issue guidance to assist heads of agencies with implementation of this section.

(c) Heads of agencies shall promptly consult, as appropriate, with  , local,  , and territorial government officials, Federal employees,   employee unions, Federal contractors, and any other interested parties concerning the implementation of this section.

(d) Heads of agencies may make categorical or case-by-case exceptions in implementing subsection (a) of this section to the extent that doing so is necessary or required by law, and consistent with applicable law. If heads of agencies make such exceptions, they shall require appropriate alternative safeguards, such as additional physical distancing measures, additional testing, or reconfiguration of workspace, consistent with applicable law. Heads of agencies shall document all exceptions in writing.

(e) Heads of agencies shall review their existing authorities and, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations and resources, seek to provide masks to individuals in Federal buildings when needed.

(f) The COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall coordinate the implementation of this section. Heads of the agencies listed in 31 U.S.C. 901(b) shall update the COVID-19 Response Coordinator on their progress in implementing this section, including any categorical exceptions established under subsection (d) of this section, within   of the date of this order and regularly thereafter. Heads of agencies are encouraged to bring to the attention of the COVID-19 Response Coordinator any questions regarding the scope or implementation of this section.

 . 3

.

Encouraging Masking Across America

. (a) The Secretary of   ( ), including through the Director of  , shall engage, as appropriate, with  , local,  , and territorial officials, as well as business, union, academic, and other community leaders, regarding mask-wearing and other public health measures, with the goal of maximizing public compliance with, and addressing any obstacles to, mask-wearing and other public health best practices identified by  .

(b)  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall promptly identify and inform agencies of options to incentivize, support, and encourage widespread mask-wearing consistent with   guidelines and applicable law.

 . 4

.

Safer  

.

(a)

Establishment

. There is hereby established   (Task Force).

(b)

Membership

. The Task Force shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Director of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii)  , who shall serve as  ;

(iii) the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, who shall serve as  ;

(iv) the Director of OMB;

(v) the Director of  ;

(vi) the Director of  ;

(vii) the Administrator of  ;

(viii) the Director of  ; and

(ix) the heads of such other agencies as   may individually or jointly invite to participate.

(c)

Organization

. A member of   may designate, to perform the Task Force functions of the member, a senior-level official who is a full-time officer or employee of the member's agency. At the direction of  ,   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of Task Force members or their designees, as appropriate.

(d)

Administration

.   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.   shall convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(e)

Mission

. The Task Force shall provide ongoing guidance to heads of agencies on the operation of  , the safety of its employees, and the continuity of Government functions during the   pandemic. Such guidance shall be based on public health best practices as determined by   and other public health experts, and shall address, at a minimum, the following subjects as they relate to the Federal workforce:

(i) testing methodologies and protocols;

(ii) case investigation and contact tracing; (iii) requirements of and limitations on physical distancing, including recommended occupancy and density standards;

(iv) equipment needs and requirements, including personal protective equipment;

(v) air filtration;

(vi) enhanced environmental disinfection and cleaning;

(vii) safe commuting and telework options;

(viii) enhanced technological infrastructure to support telework;

(ix) vaccine prioritization, distribution, and administration;

(x) approaches for coordinating with  , local,  , and territorial health officials, as well as business, union, academic, and other community leaders;

(xi) any management infrastructure needed by agencies to implement public health guidance; and

(xii) circumstances under which exemptions might appropriately be made to agency policies in accordance with   guidelines, such as for mission-critical purposes.

(f)

Agency Cooperation

. The head of each agency listed in 31 U.S.C. 901(b) shall, consistent with applicable law, promptly provide   a report on   safety protocols, safety plans, or guidance regarding the operation of the agency and the safety of its employees, and any other information that the head of the agency deems relevant to   work.

 . 5

.

Federal Employee Testing

. The Secretary of  , through the Director of  , shall promptly develop and submit to   a testing plan for the Federal workforce. This plan shall be based on community transmission metrics and address the populations to be tested, testing types, frequency of testing, positive case protocols, and coordination with local public health authorities for contact tracing.

 . 6

.

Research and Development

. The Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   (through  ), the Director of OMB, the Director of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the heads of any other appropriate agencies, shall assess the availability of Federal research grants to study best practices for implementing, and innovations to better implement, effective mask-wearing and physical distancing policies, with respect to both the Federal workforce and the general public.

 . 7

.

Scope

. (a) For purposes of this order:

(i) "Federal employees" and "Federal contractors" mean employees (including members of   and members of   in Federal service) and contractors (including such contractors' employees) working for the executive branch;

(ii) "Federal buildings" means buildings, or office space within buildings, owned, rented, or leased by the executive branch of which a substantial portion of occupants are Federal employees or Federal contractors; and

(iii) "Federal lands" means lands under executive branch control.

(b) The Director of   and   shall seek to consult, in coordination with the heads of any other relevant agencies and  , with the Sergeants at Arms of the   and   and the Director of   (or such other persons designated by the Majority and Minority Leaders of the  , the Speaker and Minority Leader of the  , or the Chief Justice of  , respectively), to promote mask-wearing, physical distancing, and adherence to other public health measures within the legislative and judicial branches, and shall provide requested technical assistance as needed to facilitate compliance with   guidelines.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the requirements of this order.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
