Section 1

.

Purpose

. Artificial intelligence (AI) holds extraordinary potential for both promise and peril. Responsible AI use has the potential to help solve urgent challenges while making our world more prosperous, productive, innovative, and secure. At the same time, irresponsible use could exacerbate societal harms such as fraud, discrimination, bias, and disinformation; displace and disempower workers; stifle competition; and pose risks to national security. Harnessing AI for good and realizing its myriad benefits requires mitigating its substantial risks. This endeavor demands a society-wide effort that includes government, the private sector, academia, and civil society.

My Administration places the highest urgency on governing the development and use of   safely and responsibly, and is therefore advancing a coordinated,  -wide approach to doing so. The rapid speed at which   capabilities are advancing compels   to lead in this moment for the sake of our security, economy, and society.

In the end,   reflects the principles of the people who build it, the people who use it, and the data upon which it is built. I firmly believe that the power of our ideals; the foundations of our society; and the creativity, diversity, and decency of our people are the reasons that   thrived in past eras of rapid change. They are the reasons we will succeed again in this moment. We are more than capable of harnessing   for justice, security, and opportunity for all.

 . 2

.

Policy and Principles

. It is the policy of my Administration to advance and govern the development and use of   in accordance with eight guiding principles and priorities. When undertaking the actions set forth in this order, executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, adhere to these principles, while, as feasible, taking into account the views of other agencies, industry, members of academia, civil society, labor unions, international allies and partners, and other relevant organizations:

(a)   must be safe and secure. Meeting this goal requires robust, reliable, repeatable, and standardized evaluations of   systems, as well as policies, institutions, and, as appropriate, other mechanisms to test, understand, and mitigate risks from these systems before they are put to use. It also requires addressing   systems' most pressing security risks—including with respect to biotechnology, cybersecurity, critical infrastructure, and other national security dangers—while navigating  's opacity and complexity. Testing and evaluations, including post-deployment performance monitoring, will help ensure that   systems function as intended, are resilient against misuse or dangerous modifications, are ethically developed and operated in a secure manner, and are compliant with applicable Federal laws and policies. Finally, my Administration will help develop effective labeling and content provenance mechanisms, so that   are able to determine when content is generated using   and when it is not. These actions will provide a vital foundation for an approach that addresses  's risks without unduly reducing its benefits.

(b) Promoting responsible innovation, competition, and collaboration will allow   to lead in   and unlock the technology's potential to solve some of society's most difficult challenges. This effort requires investments in  -related education, training, development, research, and capacity, while simultaneously tackling novel intellectual property ( ) questions and other problems to protect inventors and creators. Across  , my Administration will support programs to provide   the skills they need for the age of   and attract the world's   talent to our shores—not just to study, but to stay—so that the companies and technologies of the future are made in  .   will promote a fair, open, and competitive ecosystem and marketplace for   and related technologies so that small developers and entrepreneurs can continue to drive innovation. Doing so requires stopping unlawful collusion and addressing risks from dominant firms' use of key assets such as semiconductors, computing power, cloud storage, and data to disadvantage competitors, and it requires supporting a marketplace that harnesses the benefits of   to provide new opportunities for small businesses, workers, and entrepreneurs.

(c) The responsible development and use of   require a commitment to supporting   workers. As AI creates new jobs and industries, all workers need a seat at the table, including through collective bargaining, to ensure that they benefit from these opportunities. My Administration will seek to adapt job training and education to support a diverse workforce and help provide access to opportunities that   creates. In the workplace itself,   should not be deployed in ways that undermine rights, worsen job quality, encourage undue worker surveillance, lessen market competition, introduce new health and safety risks, or cause harmful labor-force disruptions. The critical next steps in   development should be built on the views of workers, labor unions, educators, and employers to support responsible uses of   that improve workers' lives, positively augment human work, and help all people safely enjoy the gains and opportunities from technological innovation.

(d)   policies must be consistent with my  's dedication to advancing equity and civil rights. My Administration cannot—and will not—tolerate the use of   to disadvantage those who are already too often denied equal opportunity and justice. From hiring to housing to healthcare, we have seen what happens when   use deepens discrimination and bias, rather than improving quality of life.   systems deployed irresponsibly have reproduced and intensified existing inequities, caused new types of harmful discrimination, and exacerbated online and physical harms. My Administration will build on the important steps that have already been taken—such as issuing the Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights,  , and Executive Order   of   (  Federal Government)—in seeking to ensure that   complies with all Federal laws and to promote robust technical evaluations, careful oversight, engagement with affected communities, and rigorous regulation. It is necessary to hold those developing and deploying AI accountable to standards that protect against unlawful discrimination and abuse, including in the justice system and  . Only then can   trust   to advance civil rights, civil liberties, equity, and justice for all.

(e) The interests of   who increasingly use, interact with, or purchase   and  -enabled products in their   lives must be protected. Use of new technologies, such as  , does not excuse organizations from their legal obligations, and hard-won consumer protections are more important than ever in moments of technological change.   will enforce existing consumer protection laws and principles and enact appropriate safeguards against fraud, unintended bias, discrimination, infringements on privacy, and other harms from  . Such protections are especially important in critical fields like healthcare, financial services, education, housing, law, and transportation, where mistakes by or misuse of   could harm patients, cost consumers or small businesses, or jeopardize safety or rights. At the same time, my Administration will promote responsible uses of   that protect consumers, raise the quality of goods and services, lower their prices, or expand selection and availability.

(f)  ' privacy and civil liberties must be protected as   continues advancing.   is making it easier to extract, re-identify, link, infer, and act on sensitive information about people's identities, locations, habits, and desires.   capabilities in these areas can increase the risk that personal data could be exploited and exposed. To combat this risk,   will ensure that the collection, use, and retention of data is lawful, is secure, and mitigates privacy and confidentiality risks. Agencies shall use available policy and technical tools, including privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) where appropriate, to protect privacy and to combat the broader legal and societal risks—including the chilling of   rights—that result from the improper collection and use of people's data.

(g) It is important to manage the risks from   own use of   and increase its internal capacity to regulate, govern, and support responsible use of   to deliver better results for  . These efforts start with people, our  's greatest asset. My Administration will take steps to attract, retain, and develop public service-oriented   professionals, including from underserved communities, across disciplines—including technology, policy, managerial, procurement, regulatory, ethical, governance, and legal fields—and ease   professionals' path into   to help harness and govern  .   will work to ensure that all members of its workforce receive adequate training to understand the benefits, risks, and limitations of   for their job functions, and to modernize   information technology infrastructure, remove bureaucratic obstacles, and ensure that safe and rights-respecting   is adopted, deployed, and used.

(h)   should lead the way to global societal, economic, and technological progress, as   has in previous eras of disruptive innovation and change. This leadership is not measured solely by the technological advancements our country makes. Effective leadership also means pioneering those systems and safeguards needed to deploy technology responsibly—and building and promoting those safeguards with the rest of the world. My Administration will engage with international allies and partners in developing a framework to manage  's risks, unlock  's potential for good, and promote common approaches to shared challenges.   will seek to promote responsible   safety and security principles and actions with other nations, including our competitors, while leading key global conversations and collaborations to ensure that   benefits the whole world, rather than exacerbating inequities, threatening human rights, and causing other harms.

 . 3

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "agency" means each agency described in 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), except for the independent regulatory agencies described in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

(b) The term "artificial intelligence" or "AI" has the meaning set forth in 15  ): a machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual environments. Artificial intelligence systems use   and human-based inputs to perceive real and virtual environments; abstract such perceptions into models through analysis in an automated manner; and use model inference to formulate options for information or action.

(c) The term "AI model" means a component of an information system that implements   technology and uses computational, statistical, or machine-learning techniques to produce outputs from a given set of inputs.

(d) The term "AI red-teaming" means a structured testing effort to find flaws and vulnerabilities in an   system, often in a controlled environment and in collaboration with developers of  .   red-teaming is most often performed by dedicated "red teams" that adopt adversarial methods to identify flaws and vulnerabilities, such as harmful or discriminatory outputs from an   system, unforeseen or undesirable system behaviors, limitations, or potential risks associated with the misuse of the system.

(e) The term "AI system" means any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility that operates in whole or in part using  .

(f) The term "commercially available information" means any information or data about an individual or group of individuals, including an individual's or group of individuals' device or location, that is made available or obtainable and sold, leased, or licensed to the general public or to governmental or non-governmental entities.

(g) The term "crime forecasting" means the use of analytical techniques to attempt to predict future crimes or crime-related information. It can include machine-generated predictions that use algorithms to analyze large volumes of data, as well as other forecasts that are generated without machines and based on statistics, such as historical crime statistics.

(h) The term "critical and emerging technologies" means those technologies listed in the February 2022 Critical and Emerging Technologies List Update issued by   ( ), as amended by subsequent updates to the list issued by the  .

(i) The term "critical infrastructure" has the meaning set forth in  ) of   of  , 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e).

(j) The term "differential-privacy guarantee" means protections that allow information about a group to be shared while provably limiting the improper access, use, or disclosure of personal information about particular entities.

(k) The term "dual-use foundation model" means an   model that is trained on broad data; generally uses self-supervision; contains at least tens of billions of parameters; is applicable across a wide range of contexts; and that exhibits, or could be easily modified to exhibit, high levels of performance at tasks that pose a serious risk to security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters, such as by:

(i) substantially lowering the barrier of entry for non-experts to design, synthesize, acquire, or use chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) weapons;

(ii) enabling powerful offensive cyber operations through automated vulnerability discovery and exploitation against a wide range of potential targets of cyber attacks; or

(iii) permitting the evasion of human control or oversight through means of deception or obfuscation.

Models meet this definition even if they are provided to end users with technical safeguards that attempt to prevent users from taking advantage of the relevant unsafe capabilities.

(l) The term "Federal law enforcement agency" has the meaning set forth in section 21(a) of Executive Order 14074 of   ( ,   and   and Public Safety).

(m) The term "floating-point operation" means any mathematical operation or assignment involving floating-point numbers, which are a subset of the real numbers typically represented on computers by an integer of fixed precision scaled by an   exponent of a fixed base.

(n) The term "foreign person" has the meaning set forth in section 5(c) of Executive Order 13984 of   (Taking Additional Steps To Address the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities).

(o) The terms "foreign reseller" and "foreign reseller of   as a Service Products" mean a foreign person who has established an   as a Service Account to provide Infrastructure as a Service Products subsequently, in whole or in part, to a third party.

(p) The term "generative AI" means the class of   models that emulate the structure and characteristics of input data in order to generate derived synthetic content. This can include images, videos, audio, text, and other digital content.

(q) The terms "Infrastructure as a Service Product," "United States Infrastructure as a Service Product," "United States Infrastructure as a Service Provider," and "Infrastructure as a Service Account" each have the respective meanings given to those terms in section 5 of Executive Order  .

(r) The term "integer operation" means any mathematical operation or assignment involving only integers, or whole numbers expressed without a decimal point.

(s) The term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given to that term in section 3.5(h) of Executive Order   of   ( ), as amended.

(t) The term "machine learning" means a set of techniques that can be used to train   algorithms to improve performance at a task based on data.

(u) The term "model weight" means a numerical parameter within an   model that helps determine the model's outputs in response to inputs.

(v) The term "national security system" has the meaning set forth in 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(6).

(w) The term "omics" means biomolecules, including nucleic acids, proteins, and metabolites, that make up a cell or cellular system.

(x) The term "Open RAN" means   approach to telecommunications-network standardization adopted by  , Third Generation Partnership Project, or any similar set of published open standards for multi-vendor network equipment interoperability.

(y) The term "personally identifiable information" has the meaning set forth in   (OMB) Circular No. A-130.

(z) The term "privacy-enhancing technology" means any software or hardware solution, technical process, technique, or other technological means of mitigating privacy risks arising from data processing, including by enhancing predictability, manageability, disassociability, storage, security, and confidentiality. These technological means may include secure multiparty computation, homomorphic encryption, zero-knowledge proofs, federated learning, secure enclaves, differential privacy, and synthetic-data-generation tools. This is also sometimes referred to as "privacy-preserving technology."

(aa) The term "privacy impact assessment" has the meaning set forth in OMB Circular No. A-130.

(bb) The term "Sector Risk Management Agency" has the meaning set forth in 6 U.S.C. 650(23).

(cc) The term "self-healing network" means a telecommunications network that automatically diagnoses and addresses network issues to permit self-restoration.

(dd) The term "synthetic biology" means a field of science that involves redesigning organisms, or the biomolecules of organisms, at the genetic level to give them new characteristics. Synthetic nucleic acids are a type of biomolecule redesigned through synthetic-biology methods.

(ee) The term "synthetic content" means information, such as images, videos, audio clips, and text, that has been significantly modified or generated by algorithms, including by  .

(ff) The term "testbed" means a facility or mechanism equipped for conducting rigorous, transparent, and replicable testing of tools and technologies, including   and PETs, to help evaluate the functionality, usability, and performance of those tools or technologies.

(gg) The term "watermarking" means the act of embedding information, which is typically difficult to remove, into outputs created by  —including into outputs such as photos, videos, audio clips, or text—for the purposes of verifying the authenticity of the output or the identity or characteristics of its provenance, modifications, or conveyance.

 . 4. Ensuring the Safety and Security of AI Technology.

4.1. Developing Guidelines, Standards, and   AI Safety and Security

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, to help ensure the development of safe, secure, and trustworthy   systems, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of   (NIST), in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall:

(i) Establish guidelines and best practices, with the aim of promoting consensus industry standards, for developing and deploying safe, secure, and trustworthy   systems, including:

(A) developing a companion resource to  , NIST AI 100-1, for generative  ;

(B) developing a companion resource to   to incorporate secure development practices for generative   and for dual-use foundation models; and

(C) launching an initiative to create guidance and benchmarks for evaluating and auditing   capabilities, with a focus on capabilities through which   could cause harm, such as in the areas of cybersecurity and biosecurity.

(ii) Establish appropriate guidelines (except for   used as a component of a national security system), including appropriate procedures and processes, to enable developers of  , especially of dual-use foundation models, to conduct   red-teaming tests to enable deployment of safe, secure, and trustworthy systems. These efforts shall include:

(A) coordinating or developing guidelines related to assessing and managing the safety, security, and trustworthiness of dual-use foundation models; and

(B) in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Director of   ( ), developing and helping to ensure the availability of testing environments, such as testbeds, to support the development of safe, secure, and trustworthy AI technologies, as well as to support the design, development, and deployment of associated PETs, consistent with section 9(b) of this order.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, to understand and mitigate   security risks, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the heads of other   (SRMAs) as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall develop and, to the extent permitted by law and available appropriations, implement a plan for developing   AI model evaluation tools and   testbeds. The Secretary shall undertake this work using existing solutions where possible, and shall develop these tools and   testbeds to be capable of assessing near-term extrapolations of   systems' capabilities. At a minimum, the Secretary shall develop tools to evaluate   capabilities to generate outputs that may represent nuclear, nonproliferation, biological, chemical, critical infrastructure, and energy-security threats or hazards. The Secretary shall do this work solely for the purposes of guarding against these threats, and shall also develop model guardrails that reduce such risks. The Secretary shall, as appropriate, consult with private AI laboratories, academia, civil society, and third-party evaluators, and shall use existing solutions.

4.2. Ensuring Safe and Reliable AI

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, to ensure and verify the continuous availability of safe, reliable, and effective   in accordance with the Defense Production Act, as amended, 50 U.S.C.  

et seq

., including for the national defense and the protection of critical infrastructure, the Secretary of   shall require:

(i) Companies developing or demonstrating an intent to develop potential dual-use foundation models to provide  , on an ongoing basis, with information, reports, or records regarding the following:

(A) any ongoing or planned activities related to training, developing, or producing dual-use foundation models, including the physical and cybersecurity protections taken to assure the integrity of that training process against sophisticated threats;

(B) the ownership and possession of the model weights of any dual-use foundation models, and the physical and cybersecurity measures taken to protect those model weights; and

(C) the results of any developed dual-use foundation model's performance in relevant AI red-team testing based on guidance developed by NIST pursuant to subsection 4.1(a)(ii) of this section, and a description of any associated measures the company has taken to meet safety objectives, such as mitigations to improve performance on these red-team tests and strengthen overall model security. Prior to the development of guidance on red-team testing standards by NIST pursuant to subsection 4.1(a)(ii) of this section, this description shall include the results of any red-team testing that the company has conducted relating to lowering the barrier to entry for the development, acquisition, and use of biological weapons by non-state actors; the discovery of software vulnerabilities and development of associated exploits; the use of software or tools to influence real or virtual events; the possibility for self-replication or propagation; and associated measures to meet safety objectives; and

(ii) Companies, individuals, or other organizations or entities that acquire, develop, or possess a potential large-scale computing cluster to report any such acquisition, development, or possession, including the existence and location of these clusters and the amount of total computing power available in each cluster.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , shall define, and thereafter update as needed on a regular basis, the set of technical conditions for models and computing clusters that would be subject to the reporting requirements of subsection 4.2(a) of this section. Until such technical conditions are defined, the Secretary shall require compliance with these reporting requirements for:

(i) any model that was trained using a quantity of computing power greater than 1026 integer or floating-point operations, or using primarily biological sequence data and using a quantity of computing power greater than 1023 integer or floating-point operations; and

(ii) any computing cluster that has a set of machines physically co-located in a single datacenter, transitively connected by data center networking of over 100 Gbit/s, and having a theoretical maximum computing capacity of 1020 integer or floating-point operations per second for training  .

(c) Because I find that additional steps must be taken to deal with the national emergency related to significant malicious cyber-enabled activities declared in Executive Order   of   (Blocking   in Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), as amended by Executive Order   of   (Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), and further amended by Executive Order  , to address the use of   as a Service (IaaS) Products by foreign malicious cyber actors, including to impose additional record-keeping obligations with respect to foreign transactions and to assist in the investigation of transactions involving foreign malicious cyber actors, I hereby direct the Secretary of  , within   of the date of this order, to:

(i) Propose regulations that require   to submit a report to the Secretary of   when a foreign person transacts with that   IaaS Provider to train a large   model with potential capabilities that could be used in malicious cyber-enabled activity (a "training run"). Such reports shall include, at a minimum, the identity of the foreign person and the existence of any training run of an   model meeting the criteria set forth in this section, or other criteria defined by the Secretary in regulations, as well as any additional information identified by the Secretary.

(ii) Include a requirement in the regulations proposed pursuant to subsection 4.2(c)(i) of this section that   IaaS Providers prohibit any foreign reseller of their United States IaaS Product from providing those products unless such foreign reseller submits to   a report, which the United States IaaS Provider must provide to the Secretary of  , detailing each instance in which a foreign person transacts with the foreign reseller to use   IaaS Product to conduct a training run described in subsection 4.2(c)(i) of this section. Such reports shall include, at a minimum, the information specified in subsection 4.2(c)(i) of this section as well as any additional information identified by the Secretary.

(iii) Determine the set of technical conditions for a large   model to have potential capabilities that could be used in malicious cyber-enabled activity, and revise that determination as necessary and appropriate. Until the Secretary makes such a determination, a model shall be considered to have potential capabilities that could be used in malicious cyber-enabled activity if it requires a quantity of computing power greater than 1026 integer or floating-point operations and is trained on a computing cluster that has a set of machines physically co-located in a single datacenter, transitively connected by data center networking of over 100 Gbit/s, and having a theoretical maximum compute capacity of 1020 integer or floating-point operations per second for training  .

(d) Within   of the date of this order, pursuant to the finding set forth in subsection 4.2(c) of this section, the Secretary of   shall propose regulations that require   to ensure that foreign resellers of   IaaS Products verify the identity of any foreign person that obtains an   account (account) from the foreign reseller. These regulations shall, at a minimum:

(i) Set forth the minimum standards that a United States IaaS Provider must require of foreign resellers of its United States IaaS Products to verify the identity of a foreign person who opens an account or maintains an existing account with a foreign reseller, including:

(A) the types of documentation and procedures that foreign resellers of   must require to verify the identity of any foreign person acting as a lessee or sub-lessee of these products or services;

(B) records that foreign resellers of   must securely maintain regarding a foreign person that obtains an account, including information establishing:

(1) the identity of such foreign person, including name and address;

(2) the means and source of payment (including any associated financial institution and other identifiers such as credit card number, account number, customer identifier, transaction identifiers, or virtual currency wallet or wallet address identifier);

(3) the electronic mail address and   information used to verify a foreign person's identity; and

(4) the Internet Protocol addresses used for access or administration and the date and time of each such access or administrative action related to ongoing verification of such foreign person's ownership of such an account; and

(C) methods that foreign resellers of   must implement to limit all third-party access to the information described in this subsection, except insofar as such access is otherwise consistent with this order and allowed under applicable law;

(ii) Take into consideration the types of accounts maintained by foreign resellers of  , methods of opening an account, and types of identifying information available to accomplish the objectives of identifying foreign malicious cyber actors using any such products and avoiding the imposition of an undue burden on such resellers; and

(iii) Provide that the Secretary of  , in accordance with such standards and procedures as the Secretary may delineate and in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , may exempt a   IaaS Provider with respect to any specific foreign reseller of their United States IaaS Products, or with respect to any specific type of account or lessee, from the requirements of any regulation issued pursuant to this subsection. Such standards and procedures may include a finding by the Secretary that such foreign reseller, account, or lessee complies with security best practices to otherwise deter abuse of  .

(e) The Secretary of   is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , 50 U.S.C.  

et seq

., as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of subsections 4.2(c) and (d) of this section. Such actions may include a requirement that   require foreign resellers of   to provide   IaaS Providers verifications relative to those subsections.

4.3. Managing AI in   and in Cybersecurity

. (a) To ensure the protection of critical infrastructure, the following actions shall be taken:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, and at least annually thereafter, the head of each agency with relevant regulatory authority over critical infrastructure and the heads of relevant SRMAs, in coordination with the Director of   within   for consideration of cross-sector risks, shall evaluate and provide to the Secretary of   an assessment of potential risks related to the use of   in critical infrastructure sectors involved, including ways in which deploying   may make critical infrastructure systems more vulnerable to critical failures, physical attacks, and cyber attacks, and shall consider ways to mitigate these vulnerabilities. Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged, as they deem appropriate, to contribute to sector-specific risk assessments.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   shall issue a public report on best practices for financial institutions to manage  -specific cybersecurity risks.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and with SRMAs and other regulators as determined by the Secretary of  , shall incorporate as appropriate  , NIST AI 100-1, as well as other appropriate security guidance, into relevant safety and security guidelines for use by critical infrastructure owners and operators.

(iv) Within   of the completion of the guidelines described in subsection 4.3(a)(iii) of this section, the Assistant to the President for   and the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall coordinate work by the heads of agencies with authority over critical infrastructure to develop and take steps for   to mandate such guidelines, or appropriate portions thereof, through regulatory or other appropriate action. Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged, as they deem appropriate, to consider whether to mandate guidance through regulatory action in their areas of authority and responsibility.

(v) The Secretary of   shall establish an Artificial Intelligence Safety and   as an advisory committee pursuant to section 871 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296). The   shall include   experts from the private sector, academia, and government, as appropriate, and provide to the Secretary of   and   critical infrastructure community advice, information, or recommendations for improving security, resilience, and incident response related to   usage in critical infrastructure.

(b) To capitalize on  's potential to improve   cyber defenses:

(i) The Secretary of   shall carry out the actions described in subsections 4.3(b)(ii) and (iii) of this section for national security systems, and the Secretary of   shall carry out these actions for non-national security systems. Each shall do so in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may deem appropriate.

(ii) As set forth in subsection 4.3(b)(i) of this section, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law, each develop plans for, conduct, and complete an operational pilot project to identify, develop, test, evaluate, and deploy   capabilities, such as large-language models, to aid in the discovery and remediation of vulnerabilities in critical   software, systems, and networks.

(iii) As set forth in subsection 4.3(b)(i) of this section, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall each provide a report to the Assistant to the President for   on the results of actions taken pursuant to the plans and operational pilot projects required by subsection 4.3(b)(ii) of this section, including a description of any vulnerabilities found and fixed through the development and deployment of   capabilities and any lessons learned on how to identify, develop, test, evaluate, and deploy   capabilities effectively for cyber defense.

4.4

.

Reducing Risks at the Intersection of AI and CBRN Threats

. (a) To better understand and mitigate the risk of   being misused to assist in the development or use of CBRN threats—with a particular focus on biological weapons—the following actions shall be taken:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Director of   ( ), shall evaluate the potential for   to be misused to enable the development or production of CBRN threats, while also considering the benefits and application of   to counter these threats, including, as appropriate, the results of work conducted under section 8(b) of this order. The Secretary of   shall:

(A) consult with experts in   and CBRN issues from  , private AI laboratories, academia, and third-party model evaluators, as appropriate, to evaluate   model capabilities to present CBRN threats—for the sole purpose of guarding against those threats—as well as options for minimizing the risks of   model misuse to generate or exacerbate those threats; and

(B) submit a report to the President that describes the progress of these efforts, including an assessment of the types of   models that may present CBRN risks to  , and that makes recommendations for regulating or overseeing the training, deployment, publication, or use of these models, including requirements for safety evaluations and guardrails for mitigating potential threats to national security.

(ii) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Assistant to the President for   and the Director of  , shall enter into a contract with  , Engineering, and   to conduct—and submit to the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of   and  , the Director of  , and the Chair of the Chief Data Officer Council—a study that:

(A) assesses the ways in which   can increase biosecurity risks, including risks from generative   models trained on biological data, and makes recommendations on how to mitigate these risks;

(B) considers the national security implications of the use of data and datasets, especially those associated with pathogens and omics studies, that   hosts, generates, funds the creation of, or otherwise owns, for the training of generative   models, and makes recommendations on how to mitigate the risks related to the use of these data and datasets;

(C) assesses the ways in which   applied to biology can be used to reduce biosecurity risks, including recommendations on opportunities to coordinate data and high-performance computing resources; and

(D) considers additional concerns and opportunities at the intersection of   and synthetic biology that the Secretary of   deems appropriate.

(b) To reduce the risk of misuse of synthetic nucleic acids, which could be substantially increased by  's capabilities in this area, and improve biosecurity measures for the nucleic acid synthesis industry, the following actions shall be taken:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of   ( ), the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as the Director of   may deem appropriate, shall establish a framework, incorporating, as appropriate, existing   guidance, to encourage providers of synthetic nucleic acid sequences to implement comprehensive, scalable, and verifiable synthetic nucleic acid procurement screening mechanisms, including standards and recommended incentives. As part of this framework, the Director of OSTP shall:

(A) establish criteria and mechanisms for ongoing identification of biological sequences that could be used in a manner that would pose a risk to the national security of  ; and

(B) determine standardized methodologies and tools for conducting and verifying the performance of sequence synthesis procurement screening, including customer screening approaches to support due diligence with respect to managing security risks posed by purchasers of biological sequences identified in subsection 4.4(b)(i)(A) of this section, and processes for the reporting of concerning activity to enforcement entities.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, in coordination with the Director of  , and in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall initiate an effort to engage with industry and relevant stakeholders, informed by the framework developed under subsection 4.4(b)(i) of this section, to develop and refine for possible use by synthetic nucleic acid sequence providers:

(A) specifications for effective nucleic acid synthesis procurement screening;

(B) best practices, including security and access controls, for managing sequence-of-concern databases to support such screening;

(C) technical implementation guides for effective screening; and

(D) conformity-assessment best practices and mechanisms.

(iii) Within   of the establishment of the framework pursuant to subsection 4.4(b)(i) of this section, all agencies that fund life-sciences research shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, establish that, as a requirement of funding, synthetic nucleic acid procurement is conducted through providers or manufacturers that adhere to the framework, such as through an attestation from the provider or manufacturer. The Assistant to the President for   and the Director of   shall coordinate the process of reviewing such funding requirements to facilitate consistency in implementation of the framework across funding agencies.

(iv) In order to facilitate effective implementation of the measures described in subsections 4.4(b)(i)-(iii) of this section, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall:

(A) within   of the establishment of the framework pursuant to subsection 4.4(b)(i) of this section, develop a framework to conduct structured evaluation and stress testing of nucleic acid synthesis procurement screening, including the systems developed in accordance with subsections 4.4(b)(i)-(ii) of this section and implemented by providers of synthetic nucleic acid sequences; and

(B) following development of the framework pursuant to subsection 4.4(b)(iv)(A) of this section, submit an   report to the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of   and  , and the Director of OSTP on any results of the activities conducted pursuant to subsection 4.4(b)(iv)(A) of this section, including recommendations, if any, on how to strengthen nucleic acid synthesis procurement screening, including customer screening systems.

4.5

.

Reducing the Risks Posed by Synthetic Content

. To foster capabilities for identifying and labeling synthetic content produced by   systems, and to establish the authenticity and provenance of digital content, both synthetic and not synthetic, produced by   or on its behalf:

(a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall submit a report to the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for   identifying the existing standards, tools, methods, and practices, as well as the potential development of further science-backed standards and techniques, for:

(i) authenticating content and tracking its provenance;

(ii) labeling synthetic content, such as using watermarking;

(iii) detecting synthetic content;

(iv) preventing generative   from producing child sexual abuse material or producing non-consensual intimate imagery of real individuals (to include intimate digital depictions of the body or body parts of an identifiable individual);

(v) testing software used for the above purposes; and

(vi) auditing and maintaining synthetic content.

(b) Within   of submitting the report required under subsection 4.5(a) of this section, and updated periodically thereafter, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall develop guidance regarding the existing tools and practices for digital content authentication and synthetic content detection measures. The guidance shall include measures for the purposes listed in subsection 4.5(a) of this section.

(c) Within   of the development of the guidance required under subsection 4.5(b) of this section, and updated periodically thereafter, the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Attorney General; the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Director of  ; and the heads of other agencies that the Director of OMB deems appropriate, shall—for the purpose of strengthening public confidence in the integrity of official   digital content—issue guidance to agencies for labeling and authenticating such content that they produce or publish.

(d)   shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider amending   to take into account the guidance established under subsection 4.5 of this section.

4.6

.

  on Dual-Use Foundation Models with Widely Available Model Weights

. When the weights for a dual-use foundation model are widely available—such as when they are publicly posted on the Internet—there can be substantial benefits to innovation, but also substantial security risks, such as the removal of safeguards within the model. To address the risks and potential benefits of dual-use foundation models with widely available weights, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , and in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall:

(a) solicit input from the private sector, academia, civil society, and other stakeholders through a public consultation process on potential risks, benefits, other implications, and appropriate policy and regulatory approaches related to dual-use foundation models for which the model weights are widely available, including:

(i) risks associated with actors fine-tuning dual-use foundation models for which the model weights are widely available or removing those models' safeguards;

(ii) benefits to   innovation and research, including research into   safety and risk management, of dual-use foundation models for which the model weights are widely available; and

(iii) potential voluntary, regulatory, and international mechanisms to manage the risks and maximize the benefits of dual-use foundation models for which the model weights are widely available; and

(b) based on input from the process described in subsection 4.6(a) of this section, and in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, submit a report to the President on the potential benefits, risks, and implications of dual-use foundation models for which the model weights are widely available, as well as policy and regulatory recommendations pertaining to those models.

4.7

.

Promoting Safe Release and Preventing the Malicious Use of  

. To improve public data access and manage security risks, and consistent with the objectives of the Open, Public, Electronic, and   (title II of Public Law 115-435) to expand public access to Federal data assets in a machine-readable format while also taking into account security considerations, including the risk that information in an individual data asset in isolation does not pose a security risk but, when combined with other available information, may pose such a risk:

(a) within   of the date of this order, the Chief Data Officer Council, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , shall develop initial guidelines for performing security reviews, including reviews to identify and manage the potential security risks of releasing Federal data that could aid in the development of CBRN weapons as well as the development of autonomous offensive cyber capabilities, while also providing public access to   data in line with the goals stated in the Open, Public, Electronic, and   (title II of Public Law 115-435); and

(b) within   of the development of the initial guidelines required by subsection 4.7(a) of this section, agencies shall conduct a security review of all data assets in the comprehensive data inventory required under 44 U.S.C. 3511(a)(1) and (2)(B) and shall take steps, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to address the highest-priority potential security risks that releasing that data could raise with respect to CBRN weapons, such as the ways in which that data could be used to train   systems.

4.8

.

Directing the Development of a National Security Memorandum

. To develop a coordinated executive branch approach to managing  's security risks, the Assistant to the President for   and the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy shall oversee an interagency process with the purpose of, within   of the date of this order, developing and submitting a proposed   on   to the President. The memorandum shall address the governance of   used as a component of a national security system or for military and intelligence purposes. The memorandum shall take into account current efforts to govern the development and use of   for national security systems. The memorandum shall outline actions for  ,  , other relevant agencies, and   to address the national security risks and potential benefits posed by  . In particular, the memorandum shall:

(a) provide guidance to  , other relevant agencies, and   on the continued adoption of   capabilities to advance   national security mission, including through directing specific   assurance and risk-management practices for national security uses of   that may affect the rights or safety of   persons and, in appropriate contexts,   States persons; and

(b) direct continued actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to address the potential use of   systems by adversaries and other foreign actors in ways that threaten the capabilities or objectives of   or  , or that otherwise pose risks to the security of   or its allies and partners.

 . 5.  .

5.1

.

Attracting AI Talent to  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, to attract and retain talent in   and other critical and emerging technologies in   economy, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall take appropriate steps to:

(i) streamline processing times of visa petitions and applications, including by ensuring timely availability of visa appointments, for noncitizens who seek to travel to   to work on, study, or conduct research in   or other critical and emerging technologies; and

(ii) facilitate continued availability of visa appointments in sufficient volume for applicants with expertise in   or other critical and emerging technologies.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(i) consider initiating a rulemaking to establish new criteria to designate countries and skills on     as it relates to the   foreign residence requirement for certain J-1 nonimmigrants, including those skills that are critical to  ;

(ii) consider publishing updates to the     (74 FR 20108); and

(iii) consider implementing a domestic visa renewal program under 22  ) to facilitate the ability of qualified applicants, including highly skilled talent in   and critical and emerging technologies, to continue their work in   without unnecessary interruption.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(i) consider initiating a rulemaking to expand the categories of nonimmigrants who qualify for the domestic visa renewal program covered under 22  ) to include academic J-1 research scholars and F-1 students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM); and

(ii) establish, to the extent permitted by law and available appropriations, a program to identify and attract top talent in   and other critical and emerging technologies at universities, research institutions, and the private sector overseas, and to establish and increase connections with that talent to educate them on opportunities and resources for research and employment in  , including overseas educational components to inform top STEM talent of nonimmigrant and immigrant visa options and potential expedited adjudication of their visa petitions and applications.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(i) review and initiate any policy changes the Secretary determines necessary and appropriate to clarify and modernize immigration pathways for experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies, including O-1A and   noncitizens of extraordinary ability;   advanced-degree holders and noncitizens of exceptional ability; and startup founders in   and other critical and emerging technologies using  ; and

(ii) continue its rulemaking process to modernize the   program and enhance its integrity and usage, including by experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies, and consider initiating a rulemaking to enhance the process for noncitizens, including experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies and their spouses, dependents, and children, to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident.

(e) Within   of the date of this order, for purposes of considering updates to the "Schedule A" list of occupations, 20   656.5, the Secretary of   shall publish a request for information ( ) to solicit public input, including from industry and worker-advocate communities, identifying   and other STEM-related occupations, as well as additional occupations across the economy, for which there is an insufficient number of ready, willing, able, and qualified   workers.

(f) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law and implementing regulations, use their discretionary authorities to support and attract foreign nationals with special skills in   and other critical and emerging technologies seeking to work, study, or conduct research in  .

(g) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , shall develop and publish informational resources to better attract and retain experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies, including:

(i) a clear and comprehensive guide for experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies to understand their options for working in  , to be published in multiple relevant languages on  ; and

(ii) a public report with relevant data on applications, petitions, approvals, and other key indicators of how experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies have utilized the immigration system through  .

5.2

.

Promoting Innovation

. (a) To develop and strengthen public-private partnerships for advancing innovation, commercialization, and risk-mitigation methods for  , and to help promote safe, responsible, fair, privacy-protecting, and trustworthy   systems, the Director of   shall take the following steps:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, in coordination with the heads of agencies that the Director of   deems appropriate, launch a pilot program implementing   ( ), consistent with past recommendations of the NAIRR Task Force. The program shall pursue the infrastructure, governance mechanisms, and user interfaces to pilot an initial integration of distributed computational, data, model, and training resources to be made available to the research community in support of  -related research and development. The Director of   shall identify   and private sector computational, data, software, and training resources appropriate for inclusion in the   pilot program. To assist with such work, within   of the date of this order, the heads of agencies whom the Director of   identifies for coordination pursuant to this subsection shall each submit to the Director of   a report identifying the agency resources that could be developed and integrated into such a pilot program. These reports shall include a description of such resources, including their current status and availability; their format, structure, or technical specifications; associated agency expertise that will be provided; and the benefits and risks associated with their inclusion in the   pilot program. The heads of independent regulatory agencies are encouraged to take similar steps, as they deem appropriate.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, fund and launch at least one   that prioritizes  -related work, such as  -related research, societal, or workforce needs.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, establish at least four new  , in addition to the 25 currently funded as of the date of this order.

(b) Within   of this order, to support activities involving high-performance and data-intensive computing, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Director of  , shall, in a manner consistent with applicable law and available appropriations, establish a pilot program to enhance existing successful training programs for scientists, with the goal of training 500 new researchers by 2025 capable of meeting the rising demand for   talent.

(c) To promote innovation and clarify issues related to   and inventorship of patentable subject matter, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of   (USPTO Director) shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, publish guidance to USPTO patent examiners and applicants addressing inventorship and the use of  , including generative  , in the inventive process, including illustrative examples in which   systems play different roles in inventive processes and how, in each example, inventorship issues ought to be analyzed;

(ii) subsequently, within   of the date of this order, issue additional guidance to USPTO patent examiners and applicants to address other considerations at the intersection of   and  , which could include, as the   Director deems necessary, updated guidance on patent eligibility to address innovation in   and critical and emerging technologies; and

(iii) within   of the date of this order or   after   Copyright Office of the Library of   publishes its forthcoming   study that will address copyright issues raised by  , whichever comes later, consult with the Director of   and issue recommendations to the President on potential executive actions relating to copyright and  . The recommendations shall address any copyright and related issues discussed in   Copyright Office's study, including the scope of protection for works produced using   and the treatment of copyrighted works in   training.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, to assist developers of   in combatting  -related   risks, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of  , and in consultation with the Attorney General, shall develop a training, analysis, and evaluation program to mitigate  -related   risks. Such a program shall:

(i) include appropriate personnel dedicated to collecting and analyzing reports of  -related   theft, investigating such incidents with implications for national security, and, where appropriate and consistent with applicable law, pursuing related enforcement actions;

(ii) implement a policy of sharing information and coordinating on such work, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, with  ;  ; other agencies;   and local agencies; and appropriate international organizations, including through work-sharing agreements;

(iii) develop guidance and other appropriate resources to assist private sector actors with mitigating the risks of  -related   theft;

(iv) share information and best practices with   developers and law enforcement personnel to identify incidents, inform stakeholders of current legal requirements, and evaluate   systems for   law violations, as well as develop mitigation strategies and resources; and

(v) assist   in updating   on   to address AI-related issues.

(e) To advance responsible   innovation by a wide range of healthcare technology developers that promotes the welfare of patients and workers in the healthcare sector, the Secretary of   shall identify and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law and the activities directed in section 8 of this order, prioritize grantmaking and other awards, as well as undertake related efforts, to support responsible   development and use, including:

(i) collaborating with appropriate private sector actors through   programs that may support the advancement of  -enabled tools that develop personalized immune-response profiles for patients, consistent with section 4 of this order;

(ii) prioritizing the allocation of     cooperative agreement awards to initiatives that explore ways to improve healthcare-data quality to support the responsible development of   tools for clinical care, real-world-evidence programs, population health, public health, and related research; and

(iii) accelerating grants awarded through   to   (AIM-AHEAD) program and showcasing current   activities in underserved communities.

(f) To advance the development of   systems that improve the quality of veterans' healthcare, and in order to support small businesses' innovative capacity, the Secretary of   shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, host two   nationwide   competitions; and

(ii) as part of the AI Tech Sprint competitions and in collaboration with appropriate partners, provide participants access to technical assistance, mentorship opportunities, individualized expert feedback on products under development, potential contract opportunities, and other programming and resources.

(g) Within   of the date of this order, to support the goal of strengthening our  's resilience against climate change impacts and building an equitable clean energy economy for the future, the Secretary of  , in consultation with  , the Director of  , the Chair of  , the Assistant to the President and  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   may deem appropriate, shall:

(i) issue a public report describing the potential for   to improve planning, permitting, investment, and operations for electric grid infrastructure and to enable the provision of clean, affordable, reliable, resilient, and secure electric power to all  ;

(ii) develop tools that facilitate building foundation models useful for basic and applied science, including models that streamline permitting and environmental reviews while improving environmental and social outcomes;

(iii) collaborate, as appropriate, with private sector organizations and members of academia to support development of   tools to mitigate climate change risks;

(iv) take steps to expand partnerships with industry, academia, other agencies, and international allies and partners to utilize   computing capabilities and   testbeds to build foundation models that support new applications in science and energy, and for national security, including partnerships that increase community preparedness for climate-related risks, enable clean-energy deployment (including addressing delays in permitting reviews), and enhance grid reliability and resilience; and

(v) establish an office to coordinate development of   and other critical and emerging technologies across   programs and the 17  .

(h) Within   of the date of this order, to understand  's implications for scientific research, the President's   shall submit to the President and make publicly available a report on the potential role of  , especially given recent developments in  , in research aimed at tackling major societal and global challenges. The report shall include a discussion of issues that may hinder the effective use of   in research and practices needed to ensure that   is used responsibly for research.

5.3

.

Promoting Competition

. (a) The head of each agency developing policies and regulations related to   shall use their authorities, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to promote competition in   and related technologies, as well as in other markets. Such actions include addressing risks arising from concentrated control of key inputs, taking steps to stop unlawful collusion and prevent dominant firms from disadvantaging competitors, and working to provide new opportunities for small businesses and entrepreneurs. In particular,   is encouraged to consider, as it deems appropriate, whether to exercise the  's existing authorities, including its rulemaking authority under  , 15 U.S.C.  

et seq

., to ensure fair competition in the   marketplace and to ensure that consumers and workers are protected from harms that may be enabled by the use of  .

(b) To promote competition and innovation in the semiconductor industry, recognizing that semiconductors power AI technologies and that their availability is critical to AI competition, the Secretary of Commerce shall, in implementing division A of Public Law 117-167, known as   to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of  , promote competition by:

(i) implementing a flexible membership structure for   that attracts all parts of the semiconductor and microelectronics ecosystem, including startups and small firms;

(ii) implementing mentorship programs to increase interest and participation in the semiconductor industry, including from workers in underserved communities;

(iii) increasing, where appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, the availability of resources to startups and small businesses, including:

(A) funding for physical assets, such as specialty equipment or facilities, to which startups and small businesses may not otherwise have access;

(B) datasets—potentially including test and performance data—collected, aggregated, or shared by CHIPS research and development programs;

(C) workforce development programs;

(D) design and process technology, as well as  , as appropriate; and

(E) other resources, including technical and intellectual property assistance, that could accelerate commercialization of new technologies by startups and small businesses, as appropriate; and

(iv) considering the inclusion, to the maximum extent possible, and as consistent with applicable law, of competition-increasing measures in notices of funding availability for commercial research-and-development facilities focused on semiconductors, including measures that increase access to facility capacity for startups or small firms developing semiconductors used to power AI technologies.

(c) To support small businesses innovating and commercializing  , as well as in responsibly adopting and deploying  ,   shall:

(i) prioritize the allocation of   program funding for clusters that support planning activities related to the establishment of one or more   that provide support, technical assistance, and other resources to small businesses seeking to innovate, commercialize, scale, or otherwise advance the development of  ;

(ii) prioritize the allocation of up to $2 million in   bonus prize funds for accelerators that support the incorporation or expansion of  -related curricula, training, and technical assistance, or other  -related resources within their programming; and

(iii) assess the extent to which the eligibility criteria of existing programs, including  ,   funding, and capital-access programs—such as the 7(a) loan program, 504 loan program, and  ) program—support appropriate expenses by small businesses related to the adoption of   and, if feasible and appropriate, revise eligibility criteria to improve support for these expenses.

(d) The Administrator of  , in coordination with resource partners, shall conduct outreach regarding, and raise awareness of, opportunities for small businesses to use capital-access programs described in subsection 5.3(c) of this section for eligible AI-related purposes, and for eligible investment funds with  -related expertise—particularly those seeking to serve or with experience serving underserved communities—to apply for an   license.

 . 6

.

Supporting Workers

. (a) To advance the  's understanding of  's implications for workers, the following actions shall be taken within   of the date of this order:

(i) The Chairman of   shall prepare and submit a report to the President on the labor-market effects of  .

(ii) To evaluate necessary steps for   to address AI-related workforce disruptions, the Secretary of   shall submit to the President a report analyzing the abilities of agencies to support workers displaced by the adoption of   and other technological advancements. The report shall, at a minimum:

(A) assess how current or formerly operational Federal programs designed to assist workers facing job disruptions—including unemployment insurance and programs authorized by   be used to respond to possible future AI-related disruptions; and

(B) identify options, including potential legislative measures, to strengthen or develop additional Federal support for workers displaced by   and, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , strengthen and expand education and training opportunities that provide individuals pathways to occupations related to  .

(b) To help ensure that   deployed in the workplace advances employees' well-being:

(i) The Secretary of   shall, within   of the date of this order and in consultation with other agencies and with outside entities, including labor unions and workers, as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, develop and publish principles and best practices for employers that could be used to mitigate  's potential harms to employees' well-being and maximize its potential benefits. The principles and best practices shall include specific steps for employers to take with regard to  , and shall cover, at a minimum:

(A) job-displacement risks and career opportunities related to  , including effects on job skills and evaluation of applicants and workers;

(B) labor standards and job quality, including issues related to the equity, protected-activity, compensation, health, and safety implications of   in the workplace; and

(C) implications for workers of employers' AI-related collection and use of data about them, including transparency, engagement, management, and activity protected under worker-protection laws.

(ii) After principles and best practices are developed pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section, the heads of agencies shall consider, in consultation with the Secretary of  , encouraging the adoption of these guidelines in their programs to the extent appropriate for each program and consistent with applicable law.

(iii) To support employees whose work is monitored or augmented by   in being compensated appropriately for all of their work time, the Secretary of   shall issue guidance to make clear that employers that deploy   to monitor or augment employees' work must continue to comply with protections that ensure that workers are compensated for their hours worked, as defined under the Fair Labor Standards Act of  , 29 U.S.C. 201

et seq

., and other legal requirements.

(c) To foster a diverse AI-ready workforce, the Director of   shall prioritize available resources to support  -related education and  -related workforce development through existing programs. The Director shall additionally consult with agencies, as appropriate, to identify further opportunities for agencies to allocate resources for those purposes. The actions by the Director shall use appropriate fellowship programs and awards for these purposes.

 . 7.  .

7.1

.

Strengthening AI and Civil Rights in  

. (a) To address unlawful discrimination and other harms that may be exacerbated by  , the Attorney General shall:

(i) consistent with Executive Order     (Leadership and Coordination of Nondiscrimination Laws), Executive Order  , and 28    , coordinate with and support agencies in their implementation and enforcement of existing Federal laws to address civil rights and civil liberties violations and discrimination related to  ;

(ii) direct the Assistant Attorney General in charge of   to convene, within   of the date of this order, a meeting of the heads of Federal civil rights offices—for which meeting the heads of civil rights offices within independent regulatory agencies will be encouraged to join—to discuss comprehensive use of their respective authorities and offices to: prevent and address discrimination in the use of automated systems, including algorithmic discrimination; increase coordination between     and Federal civil rights offices concerning issues related to   and algorithmic discrimination; improve external stakeholder engagement to promote public awareness of potential discriminatory uses and effects of  ; and develop, as appropriate, additional training, technical assistance, guidance, or other resources; and

(iii) consider providing, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, guidance, technical assistance, and training to  , local,  , and territorial investigators and prosecutors on best practices for investigating and prosecuting civil rights violations and discrimination related to automated systems, including  .

(b) To promote the equitable treatment of individuals and adhere to   fundamental obligation to ensure fair and impartial justice for all, with respect to the use of   in the criminal justice system, the Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Director of OSTP:

(i) within   of the date of this order, submit to the President a report that addresses the use of   in the criminal justice system, including any use in:

(A) sentencing;

(B) parole, supervised release, and probation;

(C) bail, pretrial release, and pretrial detention;

(D) risk assessments, including pretrial, earned time, and early release or transfer to home-confinement determinations;

(E) police surveillance;

(F) crime forecasting and predictive policing, including the ingestion of historical crime data into   systems to predict high-density "hot spots";

(G) prison-management tools; and

(H) forensic analysis;

(ii) within the report set forth in subsection 7.1(b)(i) of this section:

(A) identify areas where   can enhance law enforcement efficiency and accuracy, consistent with protections for privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties; and

(B) recommend best practices for law enforcement agencies, including safeguards and appropriate use limits for  , to address the concerns set forth in section 13(e)(i) of Executive Order   as well as the best practices and the guidelines set forth in section 13(e)(iii) of Executive Order  ; and

(iii) supplement the report set forth in subsection 7.1(b)(i) of this section as appropriate with recommendations to the President, including with respect to requests for necessary legislation.

(c) To advance the presence of relevant technical experts and expertise (such as machine-learning engineers, software and infrastructure engineering, data privacy experts, data scientists, and user experience researchers) among law enforcement professionals:

(i) The interagency working group created pursuant to section 3 of Executive Order   shall, within   of the date of this order, identify and share best practices for recruiting and hiring law enforcement professionals who have the technical skills mentioned in subsection 7.1(c) of this section, and for training law enforcement professionals about responsible application of  .

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , consider those best practices and the guidance developed under section 3(d) of Executive Order   and, if necessary, develop additional general recommendations for  , local,  , and territorial law enforcement agencies and criminal justice agencies seeking to recruit, hire, train, promote, and retain highly qualified and service-oriented officers and staff with relevant technical knowledge. In considering this guidance, the Attorney General shall consult with  , local,  , and territorial law enforcement agencies, as appropriate.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General shall review the work conducted pursuant to section 2(b) of Executive Order   and, if appropriate, reassess the existing capacity to investigate law enforcement deprivation of rights under color of law resulting from the use of  , including through improving and increasing training of Federal law enforcement officers, their supervisors, and Federal prosecutors on how to investigate and prosecute cases related to   involving the deprivation of rights under color of law pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 242.

7.2

.

Protecting Civil Rights Related to Government Benefits and Programs

. (a) To advance equity and civil rights, consistent with the directives of Executive Order  , and in addition to complying with the guidance on   use of   issued pursuant to section 10.1(b) of this order, agencies shall use their respective civil rights and civil liberties offices and authorities—as appropriate and consistent with applicable law—to prevent and address unlawful discrimination and other harms that result from uses of   in   programs and benefits administration. This directive does not apply to agencies' civil or criminal enforcement authorities. Agencies shall consider opportunities to ensure that their respective civil rights and civil liberties offices are appropriately consulted on agency decisions regarding the design, development, acquisition, and use of   in   programs and benefits administration. To further these objectives, agencies shall also consider opportunities to increase coordination, communication, and engagement about   as appropriate with community-based organizations; civil-rights and civil-liberties organizations; academic institutions; industry;  , local,  , and territorial governments; and other stakeholders.

(b) To promote equitable administration of public benefits:

(i) The Secretary of   shall, within   of the date of this order and in consultation with relevant agencies, publish a plan, informed by the guidance issued pursuant to section 10.1(b) of this order, addressing the use of automated or algorithmic systems in the implementation by   and localities of public benefits and services administered by the Secretary, such as to promote: assessment of access to benefits by qualified recipients; notice to recipients about the presence of such systems; regular evaluation to detect unjust denials; processes to retain appropriate levels of discretion of expert agency staff; processes to appeal denials to human reviewers; and analysis of whether algorithmic systems in use by benefit programs achieve equitable and just outcomes.

(ii) The Secretary of Agriculture shall, within   of the date of this order and as informed by the guidance issued pursuant to section 10.1(b) of this order, issue guidance to  , local,  , and territorial public-benefits administrators on the use of automated or algorithmic systems in implementing benefits or in providing customer support for benefit programs administered by the Secretary, to ensure that programs using those systems:

(A) maximize program access for eligible recipients;

(B) employ automated or algorithmic systems in a manner consistent with any requirements for using merit systems personnel in public-benefits programs;

(C) identify instances in which reliance on automated or algorithmic systems would require notification by the  , local,  , or territorial government to the Secretary;

(D) identify instances when applicants and participants can appeal benefit determinations to a human reviewer for reconsideration and can receive other customer support from a human being;

(E) enable auditing and, if necessary, remediation of the logic used to arrive at an individual decision or determination to facilitate the evaluation of appeals; and

(F) enable the analysis of whether algorithmic systems in use by benefit programs achieve equitable outcomes.

7.3

.

Strengthening AI and Civil Rights in  . (a) Within   of the date of this order, to prevent unlawful discrimination from   used for hiring, the Secretary of   shall publish guidance for Federal contractors regarding nondiscrimination in hiring involving   and other technology-based hiring systems.

(b) To address discrimination and biases against protected groups in housing markets and consumer financial markets, the Director of   and the Director of   are encouraged to consider using their authorities, as they deem appropriate, to require their respective regulated entities, where possible, to use appropriate methodologies including   tools to ensure compliance with Federal law and:

(i) evaluate their underwriting models for bias or disparities affecting protected groups; and

(ii) evaluate automated collateral-valuation and appraisal processes in ways that minimize bias.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, to combat unlawful discrimination enabled by automated or algorithmic tools used to make decisions about access to housing and in other real estate-related transactions, the Secretary of   shall, and the Director of   is encouraged to, issue additional guidance:

(i) addressing the use of tenant screening systems in ways that may violate the Fair Housing Act (Public Law 90-284),  ), or other relevant Federal laws, including how the use of data, such as criminal records, eviction records, and credit information, can lead to discriminatory outcomes in violation of Federal law; and

(ii) addressing how the Fair Housing Act, the Consumer Financial Protection Act of   (title X of Public Law 111-203), or  ) apply to the advertising of housing, credit, and other real estate-related transactions through digital platforms, including those that use algorithms to facilitate advertising delivery, as well as on best practices to avoid violations of Federal law.

(d) To help ensure that people with disabilities benefit from  's promise while being protected from its risks, including unequal treatment from the use of biometric data like gaze direction, eye tracking, gait analysis, and hand motions, the   and   is encouraged, as it deems appropriate, to solicit public participation and conduct community engagement; to issue technical assistance and recommendations on the risks and benefits of   in using biometric data as an input; and to provide people with disabilities access to information and communication technology and transportation services.

 . 8

.

 , and Students

. (a) Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged, as they deem appropriate, to consider using their full range of authorities to protect   consumers from fraud, discrimination, and threats to privacy and to address other risks that may arise from the use of  , including risks to financial stability, and to consider rulemaking, as well as emphasizing or clarifying where existing regulations and guidance apply to  , including clarifying the responsibility of regulated entities to conduct due diligence on and monitor any third-party   services they use, and emphasizing or clarifying requirements and expectations related to the transparency of   models and regulated entities' ability to explain their use of   models.

(b) To help ensure the safe, responsible deployment and use of   in the healthcare, public-health, and human-services sectors:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , establish an   that shall,   of its creation, develop a strategic plan that includes policies and frameworks—possibly including regulatory action, as appropriate—on responsible deployment and use of   and  -enabled technologies in the health and human services sector (including research and discovery, drug and device safety, healthcare delivery and financing, and public health), and identify appropriate guidance and resources to promote that deployment, including in the following areas:

(A) development, maintenance, and use of predictive and generative AI-enabled technologies in healthcare delivery and financing—including quality measurement, performance improvement, program integrity, benefits administration, and patient experience—taking into account considerations such as appropriate human oversight of the application of  -generated output;

(B) long-term safety and real-world performance monitoring of  -enabled technologies in the health and human services sector, including clinically relevant or significant modifications and performance across population groups, with a means to communicate product updates to regulators, developers, and users;

(C) incorporation of equity principles in  -enabled technologies used in the health and human services sector, using disaggregated data on affected populations and representative population data sets when developing new models, monitoring algorithmic performance against discrimination and bias in existing models, and helping to identify and mitigate discrimination and bias in current systems;

(D) incorporation of safety, privacy, and security standards into the software-development lifecycle for protection of personally identifiable information, including measures to address AI-enhanced cybersecurity threats in the health and human services sector;

(E) development, maintenance, and availability of documentation to help users determine appropriate and safe uses of   in local settings in the health and human services sector;

(F) work to be done with  , local,  , and territorial health and human services agencies to advance positive use cases and best practices for use of   in local settings; and

(G) identification of uses of   to promote workplace efficiency and satisfaction in the health and human services sector, including reducing administrative burdens.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall direct   components, as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, to develop a strategy, in consultation with relevant agencies, to determine whether  -enabled technologies in the health and human services sector maintain appropriate levels of quality, including, as appropriate, in the areas described in subsection (b)(i) of this section. This work shall include the development of   assurance policy—to evaluate important aspects of the performance of  -enabled healthcare tools—and infrastructure needs for enabling pre-market assessment and post-market oversight of  -enabled healthcare-technology algorithmic system performance against real-world data.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with relevant agencies as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, consider appropriate actions to advance the prompt understanding of, and compliance with, Federal nondiscrimination laws by health and human services providers that receive Federal financial assistance, as well as how those laws relate to  . Such actions may include:

(A) convening and providing technical assistance to health and human services providers and payers about their obligations under Federal nondiscrimination and privacy laws as they relate to   and the potential consequences of noncompliance; and

(B) issuing guidance, or taking other action as appropriate, in response to any complaints or other reports of noncompliance with Federal nondiscrimination and privacy laws as they relate to  .

(iv) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , establish an   safety program that, in partnership with voluntary federally listed Patient Safety Organizations:

(A) establishes a common framework for approaches to identifying and capturing clinical errors resulting from   deployed in healthcare settings as well as specifications for a central tracking repository for associated incidents that cause harm, including through bias or discrimination, to patients, caregivers, or other parties;

(B) analyzes captured data and generated evidence to develop, wherever appropriate, recommendations, best practices, or other informal guidelines aimed at avoiding these harms; and

(C) disseminates those recommendations, best practices, or other informal guidance to appropriate stakeholders, including healthcare providers.

(v) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall develop a strategy for regulating the use of   or  -enabled tools in drug-development processes. The strategy shall, at a minimum:

(A) define the objectives, goals, and high-level principles required for appropriate regulation throughout each phase of drug development;

(B) identify areas where future rulemaking, guidance, or additional statutory authority may be necessary to implement such a regulatory system;

(C) identify the existing budget, resources, personnel, and potential for new public/private partnerships necessary for such a regulatory system; and

(D) consider risks identified by the actions undertaken to implement section 4 of this order.

(c) To promote the safe and responsible development and use of   in the transportation sector, in consultation with relevant agencies:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall direct  ) Council to assess the need for information, technical assistance, and guidance regarding the use of   in transportation. The Secretary of   shall further direct  , as part of any such efforts, to:

(A) support existing and future initiatives to pilot transportation-related applications of  , as they align with policy priorities articulated in   ( ) Innovation Principles, including, as appropriate, through technical assistance and connecting stakeholders;

(B) evaluate the outcomes of such pilot programs in order to assess when  , or other   agencies, have sufficient information to take regulatory actions, as appropriate, and recommend appropriate actions when that information is available; and

(C) establish a new  , which will consist of members from different divisions of   and coordinate applicable work among these divisions, to solicit and use relevant input from appropriate stakeholders.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall direct appropriate   of the   to provide advice on the safe and responsible use of   in transportation. The committees shall include  ,  , and  .

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall direct   (ARPA-I) to explore the transportation-related opportunities and challenges of  —including regarding software-defined   enhancements impacting autonomous mobility ecosystems. The Secretary of   shall further encourage ARPA-I to prioritize the allocation of grants to those opportunities, as appropriate. The work tasked to ARPA-I shall include soliciting input on these topics through a public consultation process, such as an RFI.

(d) To help ensure the responsible development and deployment of   in the education sector, the Secretary of   shall,   of the date of this order, develop resources, policies, and guidance regarding  . These resources shall address safe, responsible, and nondiscriminatory uses of   in education, including the impact   systems have on vulnerable and underserved communities, and shall be developed in consultation with stakeholders as appropriate. They shall also include the development of an "AI toolkit" for education leaders implementing recommendations from     and   report, including appropriate human review of   decisions, designing   systems to enhance trust and safety and align with privacy-related laws and regulations in the educational context, and developing education-specific guardrails.

(e)   is encouraged to consider actions related to how   will affect communications networks and consumers, including by:

(i) examining the potential for   to improve spectrum management, increase the efficiency of non-Federal spectrum usage, and expand opportunities for the sharing of non-Federal spectrum;

(ii) coordinating with   to create opportunities for sharing spectrum between   and   spectrum operations;

(iii) providing support for efforts to improve network security, resiliency, and interoperability using next-generation technologies that incorporate  , including self-healing networks, 6G, and Open RAN; and

(iv) encouraging, including through rulemaking, efforts to combat unwanted robocalls and robotexts that are facilitated or exacerbated by   and to deploy   technologies that better serve consumers by blocking unwanted robocalls and robotexts.

 . 9

.

Protecting Privacy

. (a) To mitigate privacy risks potentially exacerbated by  —including by  's facilitation of the collection or use of information about individuals, or the making of inferences about individuals—the Director of OMB shall:

(i) evaluate and take steps to identify commercially available information ( ) procured by agencies, particularly   that contains personally identifiable information and including   procured from data brokers and   procured and processed indirectly through vendors, in appropriate agency inventory and reporting processes (other than when it is used for the purposes of national security);

(ii) evaluate, in consultation with   and  , agency standards and procedures associated with the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, and disposition of   that contains personally identifiable information (other than when it is used for the purposes of national security) to inform potential guidance to agencies on ways to mitigate privacy and confidentiality risks from agencies' activities related to  ;

(iii) within   of the date of this order, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Director of  , issue an   to inform potential revisions to guidance to agencies on implementing the privacy provisions of   (Public Law 107-347). The   shall seek feedback regarding how privacy impact assessments may be more effective at mitigating privacy risks, including those that are further exacerbated by  ; and

(iv) take such steps as are necessary and appropriate, consistent with applicable law, to support and advance the near-term actions and long-term strategy identified through the   process, including issuing new or updated guidance or RFIs or consulting other agencies or  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, to better enable agencies to use PETs to safeguard  ' privacy from the potential threats exacerbated by  , the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, shall create guidelines for agencies to evaluate the efficacy of differential-privacy-guarantee protections, including for  . The guidelines shall, at a minimum, describe the significant factors that bear on differential-privacy safeguards and common risks to realizing differential privacy in practice.

(c) To advance research, development, and implementation related to PETs:

(i) Within   of this order, the Director of  , in collaboration with the Secretary of  , shall fund the creation of a Research Coordination Network ( ) dedicated to advancing privacy research and, in particular, the development, deployment, and scaling of PETs. The   shall serve to enable privacy researchers to share information, coordinate and collaborate in research, and develop standards for the privacy-research community.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   shall engage with agencies to identify ongoing work and potential opportunities to incorporate PETs into their operations. The Director of   shall, where feasible and appropriate, prioritize research—including efforts to translate research discoveries into practical applications—that encourage the adoption of leading-edge PETs solutions for agencies' use, including through research engagement through the   described in subsection (c)(i) of this section.

(iii) The Director of   shall use the results of  -United Kingdom PETs Prize Challenge to inform the approaches taken, and opportunities identified, for PETs research and adoption.

 . 10.    

.

10.1

.

Providing Guidance for AI Management

. (a) To coordinate the use of   across  , within   of the date of this order and on an ongoing basis as necessary, the Director of OMB shall convene and chair an interagency council to coordinate the development and use of   in agencies' programs and operations, other than the use of   in national security systems. The Director of   shall serve as Vice Chair for the interagency council. The interagency council's membership shall include, at minimum, the heads of the agencies identified in 31 U.S.C. 901(b), the Director of  , and other agencies as identified by the  . Until agencies designate their permanent Chief AI Officers consistent with the guidance described in  ) of this section, they shall be represented on the interagency council by an appropriate official at the Assistant Secretary level or equivalent, as determined by the head of each agency.

(b) To provide guidance on   use of  , within   of the date of this order and updated periodically thereafter, the Director of OMB, in coordination with the Director of  , and in consultation with the interagency council established in  ) of this section, shall issue guidance to agencies to strengthen the effective and appropriate use of  , advance   innovation, and manage risks from   in  . The Director of  's guidance shall specify, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i) the requirement to designate at each agency within   of the issuance of the guidance a Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer who shall hold primary responsibility in their agency, in coordination with other responsible officials, for coordinating their agency's use of  , promoting AI innovation in their agency, managing risks from their agency's use of  , and carrying out the responsibilities described in section 8(c) of Executive Order   of   (Promoting the Use of Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence in  ), and section 4(b) of Executive Order  ;

(ii) the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officers' roles, responsibilities, seniority, position, and reporting structures;

(iii) for the agencies identified in 31 U.S.C. 901(b), the creation of internal Artificial Intelligence Governance Boards, or other appropriate mechanisms, at each agency within   of the issuance of the guidance to coordinate and govern   issues through relevant senior leaders from across the agency;

(iv) required minimum risk-management practices for Government uses of   that impact people's rights or safety, including, where appropriate, the following practices derived from  's Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights and  : conducting public consultation; assessing data quality; assessing and mitigating disparate impacts and algorithmic discrimination; providing notice of the use of  ; continuously monitoring and evaluating deployed  ; and granting human consideration and remedies for adverse decisions made using  ;

(v) specific   uses of   that are presumed by default to impact rights or safety;

(vi) recommendations to agencies to reduce barriers to the responsible use of  , including barriers related to information technology infrastructure, data, workforce, budgetary restrictions, and cybersecurity processes;

(vii) requirements that agencies identified in 31 U.S.C. 901(b) develop   strategies and pursue high-impact AI use cases;

(viii) in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other appropriate agencies as determined by the Director of OMB, recommendations to agencies regarding:

(A) external testing for  , including   red-teaming for generative  , to be developed in coordination with  ;

(B) testing and safeguards against discriminatory, misleading, inflammatory, unsafe, or deceptive outputs, as well as against producing child sexual abuse material and against producing non-consensual intimate imagery of real individuals (including intimate digital depictions of the body or body parts of an identifiable individual), for generative  ;

(C) reasonable steps to watermark or otherwise label output from generative  ;

(D) application of the mandatory minimum risk-management practices defined under subsection 10.1(b)(iv) of this section to procured  ;

(E) independent evaluation of vendors' claims concerning both the effectiveness and risk mitigation of their   offerings;

(F) documentation and oversight of procured  ;

(G) maximizing the value to agencies when relying on contractors to use and enrich   data for the purposes of   development and operation;

(H) provision of incentives for the continuous improvement of procured  ; and

(I) training on   in accordance with the principles set out in this order and in other references related to   listed herein; and

(ix) requirements for public reporting on compliance with this guidance.

(c) To track agencies'   progress, within   of the issuance of the guidance established in  ) of this section and updated periodically thereafter, the Director of OMB shall develop a method for agencies to track and assess their ability to adopt   into their programs and operations, manage its risks, and comply with Federal policy on  . This method should draw on existing related efforts as appropriate and should address, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the practices, processes, and capabilities necessary for responsible   adoption, training, and governance across, at a minimum, the areas of information technology infrastructure, data, workforce, leadership, and risk management.

(d) To assist agencies in implementing the guidance to be established in  ) of this section:

(i) within   of the issuance of the guidance, the Secretary of  , acting through the Director of NIST, and in coordination with the Director of OMB and the Director of  , shall develop guidelines, tools, and practices to support implementation of the minimum risk-management practices described in subsection 10.1(b)(iv) of this section; and

(ii) within   of the issuance of the guidance, the Director of OMB shall develop an initial means to ensure that agency contracts for the acquisition of   systems and services align with the guidance described in  ) of this section and advance the other aims identified in section 7224(d)(1) of   Law 117-263, div. G, title  , subtitle B).

(e) To improve transparency for agencies' use of  , the Director of OMB shall, on an   basis, issue instructions to agencies for the collection, reporting, and publication of agency   use cases, pursuant to section 7225(a) of  . Through these instructions, the Director shall, as appropriate, expand agencies' reporting on how they are managing risks from their   use cases and update or replace the guidance originally established in section 5 of Executive Order  .

(f) To advance the responsible and secure use of generative   in  (i) As generative   products become widely available and common in online platforms, agencies are discouraged from imposing broad general bans or blocks on agency use of generative  . Agencies should instead limit access, as necessary, to specific generative   services based on specific risk assessments; establish guidelines and limitations on the appropriate use of generative  ; and, with appropriate safeguards in place, provide their personnel and programs with access to secure and reliable generative   capabilities, at least for the purposes of experimentation and routine tasks that carry a low risk of impacting  ' rights. To protect   information, agencies are also encouraged to employ risk-management practices, such as training their staff on proper use, protection, dissemination, and disposition of Federal information; negotiating appropriate terms of service with vendors; implementing measures designed to ensure compliance with record-keeping, cybersecurity, confidentiality, privacy, and data protection requirements; and deploying other measures to prevent misuse of   information in generative  .

(ii) Within   of the date of this order,  , in coordination with the Director of OMB, and in consultation with   and other relevant agencies as   may deem appropriate, shall develop and issue a framework for prioritizing critical and emerging technologies offerings in   authorization process, starting with generative   offerings that have the primary purpose of providing large language model-based chat interfaces, code-generation and debugging tools, and associated application programming interfaces, as well as prompt-based image generators. This framework shall apply for   from the date of its issuance. Agency Chief  , Chief Information Security Officers, and authorizing officials are also encouraged to prioritize generative   and other critical and emerging technologies in granting authorities for agency operation of information technology systems and any other applicable release or oversight processes, using continuous authorizations and approvals wherever feasible.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   (OPM), in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall develop guidance on the use of generative   for work by the Federal workforce.

(g) Within   of the date of this order, to increase agency investment in  ,   shall consider, as it deems appropriate and consistent with applicable law, prioritizing funding for   projects for   for a period of  . Agencies are encouraged to submit to   project funding proposals that include  —and particularly generative  —in service of mission delivery.

(h) Within   of the date of this order, to facilitate agencies' access to commercial AI capabilities,  , in coordination with the Director of OMB, and in collaboration with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Administrator of  , and the head of any other agency identified by  , shall take steps consistent with applicable law to facilitate access to  -wide acquisition solutions for specified types of   services and products, such as through the creation of a resource guide or other tools to assist the acquisition workforce. Specified types of   capabilities shall include generative   and specialized computing infrastructure.

(i) The initial means, instructions, and guidance issued pursuant to subsections  ) of this section shall not apply to   when it is used as a component of a national security system, which shall be addressed by the proposed   described in subsection 4.8 of this order.

10.2. Increasing AI Talent in Government

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, to plan a national surge in   talent in  , the Director of   and the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy Advisor, and the Assistant to the President and Director of  , shall identify priority mission areas for increased   talent, the types of talent that are highest priority to recruit and develop to ensure adequate implementation of this order and use of relevant enforcement and regulatory authorities to address   risks, and accelerated hiring pathways.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, to coordinate rapid advances in the capacity of the   workforce, the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, in coordination with the Director of   and the Director of OMB, and in consultation with the National Cyber Director, shall convene an  , which shall include the Director of  , the Director of   Technology Transformation Services, a representative from  , the Assistant to the President for  , members of appropriate agency technology talent programs, a representative of  , and a representative of the interagency council convened under subsection 10.1(a) of this section.   purpose shall be to accelerate and track the hiring of   and  -enabling talent across  , including through the following actions:

(i) within   of the date of this order, tracking and reporting progress to the President on increasing AI capacity across  , including submitting to the President a report and recommendations for further increasing capacity;

(ii) identifying and circulating best practices for agencies to attract, hire, retain, train, and empower   talent, including diversity, inclusion, and accessibility best practices, as well as to plan and budget adequately for AI workforce needs;

(iii) coordinating, in consultation with the Director of  , the use of fellowship programs and agency technology-talent programs and human-capital teams to build hiring capabilities, execute hires, and place   talent to fill staffing gaps; and

(iv) convening a cross-agency forum for ongoing collaboration between   professionals to share best practices and improve retention.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, to advance existing Federal technology talent programs,  , Presidential Innovation Fellowship,  ,  , and technology talent programs at agencies, with support from the AI and Technology Talent Task Force described in subsection 10.2(b) of this section, as appropriate and permitted by law, shall develop and begin to implement plans to support the rapid recruitment of individuals as part of a  -wide   talent surge to accelerate the placement of key   and  -enabling talent in high-priority areas and to advance agencies' data and technology strategies.

(d) To meet the critical hiring need for qualified personnel to execute the initiatives in this order, and to improve Federal hiring practices for   talent, the Director of  , in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, conduct an evidence-based review on the need for hiring and workplace flexibility, including  -wide direct-hire authority for   and related data-science and technical roles, and, where the Director of   finds such authority is appropriate, grant it; this review shall include the following job series at all General   (GS) levels: IT Specialist ( ),   ( ),   ( ), and   Analyst ( ) focused on  , and any subsequently developed job series derived from these job series;

(ii) within   of the date of this order, consider authorizing the use of excepted service appointments under 5 C.F.R. 213.3102(i)(3) to address the need for hiring additional staff to implement directives of this order;

(iii) within   of the date of this order, coordinate a pooled-hiring action informed by subject-matter experts and using skills-based assessments to support the recruitment of   talent across agencies;

(iv) within   of the date of this order, as appropriate and permitted by law, issue guidance for agency application of existing pay flexibilities or incentive pay programs for  ,  -enabling, and other key technical positions to facilitate appropriate use of current pay incentives;

(v) within   of the date of this order, establish guidance and policy on skills-based,  -wide hiring of  , data, and technology talent in order to increase access to those with nontraditional academic backgrounds to  , data, and technology roles;

(vi) within   of the date of this order, establish an interagency working group, staffed with both human-resources professionals and recruiting technical experts, to facilitate  -wide hiring of people with   and other technical skills;

(vii) within   of the date of this order, review existing Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) for   (SES) positions informed by data and   literacy competencies and,   of the date of this order, implement new ECQs as appropriate in the SES assessment process;

(viii) within   of the date of this order, complete a review of competencies for civil engineers (GS-0810 series) and, if applicable, other related occupations, and make recommendations for ensuring that adequate   expertise and credentials in these occupations in the   reflect the increased use of   in critical infrastructure; and

(ix) work with the  , Suitability, and   to assess mechanisms to streamline and accelerate personnel-vetting requirements, as appropriate, to support   and fields related to other critical and emerging technologies.

(e) To expand the use of special authorities for   hiring and retention, agencies shall use all appropriate hiring authorities, including   A(r) excepted service hiring and direct-hire authority, as applicable and appropriate, to hire   talent and  -enabling talent rapidly. In addition to participating in  -led pooled hiring actions, agencies shall collaborate, where appropriate, on agency-led pooled hiring under the Competitive Service Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-137) and other shared hiring. Agencies shall also, where applicable, use existing incentives, pay-setting authorities, and other compensation flexibilities, similar to those used for cyber and information technology positions, for   and data-science professionals, as well as plain-language job titles, to help recruit and retain these highly skilled professionals. Agencies shall ensure that   and other related talent needs (such as technology governance and privacy) are reflected in strategic workforce planning and budget formulation.

(f) To facilitate the hiring of data scientists, the Chief Data Officer Council shall develop a position-description library for data scientists (job series  ) and a hiring guide to support agencies in hiring data scientists.

(g) To help train the Federal workforce on   issues, the head of each agency shall implement—or increase the availability and use of—AI training and familiarization programs for employees, managers, and leadership in technology as well as relevant policy, managerial, procurement, regulatory, ethical, governance, and legal fields. Such training programs should, for example, empower Federal employees, managers, and leaders to develop and maintain an operating knowledge of emerging AI technologies to assess opportunities to use these technologies to enhance the delivery of services to the public, and to mitigate risks associated with these technologies. Agencies that provide professional-development opportunities, grants, or funds for their staff should take appropriate steps to ensure that employees who do not serve in traditional technical roles, such as policy, managerial, procurement, or legal fields, are nonetheless eligible to receive funding for programs and courses that focus on  , machine learning, data science, or other related subject areas.

(h) Within   of the date of this order, to address gaps in   talent for national defense, the Secretary of   shall submit a report to the President through the Assistant to the President for   that includes:

(i) recommendations to address challenges in   ability to hire certain noncitizens, including at  ;

(ii) recommendations to clarify and streamline processes for accessing classified information for certain noncitizens through   at   laboratories;

(iii) recommendations for the appropriate use of enlistment authority under 10 U.S.C. 504(b)(2) for experts in   and other critical and emerging technologies; and

(iv) recommendations for   and   to work together to enhance the use of appropriate authorities for the retention of certain noncitizens of vital importance to national security by   and  .

 . 11

.

Strengthening   Leadership Abroad

. (a) To strengthen   leadership of global efforts to unlock  's potential and meet its challenges, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Director of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as appropriate, shall:

(i) lead efforts outside of military and intelligence areas to expand engagements with international allies and partners in relevant bilateral, multilateral, and multi-stakeholder fora to advance those allies' and partners' understanding of existing and planned  -related guidance and policies of  , as well as to enhance international collaboration; and

(ii) lead efforts to establish a strong international framework for managing the risks and harnessing the benefits of  , including by encouraging international allies and partners to support voluntary commitments similar to those that   companies have made in pursuit of these objectives and coordinating the activities directed by subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, and to develop common regulatory and other accountability principles for foreign nations, including to manage the risk that   systems pose.

(b) To advance responsible global technical standards for   development and use outside of military and intelligence areas, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and the heads of other relevant agencies as appropriate, shall lead preparations for a coordinated effort with key international allies and partners and with standards development organizations, to drive the development and implementation of  -related consensus standards, cooperation and coordination, and information sharing. In particular, the Secretary of Commerce shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, establish a plan for global engagement on promoting and developing   standards, with lines of effort that may include:

(A) AI nomenclature and terminology;

(B) best practices regarding data capture, processing, protection, privacy, confidentiality, handling, and analysis;

(C) trustworthiness, verification, and assurance of   systems; and

(D) AI risk management;

(ii) within   of the date the plan is established, submit a report to the President on priority actions taken pursuant to the plan; and

(iii) ensure that such efforts are guided by principles set out in   and  .

(c) Within   of the date of this order, to promote safe, responsible, and rights-affirming development and deployment of   abroad:

(i) The Secretary of   and  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , acting through the director of  , shall publish an   in Global Development Playbook that incorporates   principles, guidelines, and best practices into the social, technical, economic, governance, human rights, and security conditions of contexts beyond   borders. As part of this work, the Secretary of   and     shall draw on lessons learned from programmatic uses of   in global development.

(ii) The Secretary of   and  , in collaboration with the Secretary of   and the Director of  , shall develop a   to guide the objectives and implementation of  -related research in contexts beyond   borders. The   shall:

(A) include principles, guidelines, priorities, and best practices aimed at ensuring the safe, responsible, beneficial, and sustainable global development and adoption of  ; and

(B) address  's labor-market implications across international contexts, including by recommending risk mitigations.

(d) To address cross-border and global   risks to critical infrastructure, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , and in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies as the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall lead efforts with international allies and partners to enhance cooperation to prevent, respond to, and recover from potential critical infrastructure disruptions resulting from incorporation of   into critical infrastructure systems or malicious use of  .

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall develop a plan for multilateral engagements to encourage the adoption of the   safety and security guidelines for use by critical infrastructure owners and operators developed in section 4.3(a) of this order.

(ii) Within   of establishing the plan described in subsection (d)(i) of this section, the Secretary of   shall submit a report to the President on priority actions to mitigate cross-border risks to critical   infrastructure.

 . 12

.

Implementation

. (a) There is established, within   of the President,   ( ). The function of   is to coordinate the activities of agencies across   to ensure the effective formulation, development, communication, industry engagement related to, and timely implementation of  -related policies, including policies set forth in this order.

(b) The Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy shall serve as  .

(c) In addition to the  ,   shall consist of the following members, or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii) the Secretary of  ;

( ) the Secretary of  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi) the Administrator of    ;

(xvii) the Director of  ;

(xviii) the Director of  ;

(xix) the Director of OMB;

(xx) the Director of  ;

(xxi) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(xxii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xxiii) the Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy Advisor;

(xxiv) the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President;

(xxv) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(xxvi) the Chairman of  ;

( ) the National Cyber Director;

(xxviii) the Chairman of  ; and

(xxix) the heads of such other agencies, independent regulatory agencies, and executive offices as the   may from time to time designate or invite to participate.

(d) The   may create and coordinate subgroups consisting of   members or their designees, as appropriate.

 . 13

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
