Section 1

.

Policy and Purpose

.   needs resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains to ensure our economic prosperity, national security, and national competitiveness. In Executive Order   of   ( 's  ), I directed a comprehensive review of  's supply chains to ensure that they are resilient in the face of a range of risks. One critical component of safeguarding supply chain resilience and industrial base health is ensuring that both   and the private sector maintain adequate quantities of supplies, equipment, or raw materials on hand to create a buffer against potential shortages and import dependencies. Some of   key tools to maintain adequate quantities of supplies to guard against such shortages and dependencies are   national stockpiles, including  . By strengthening  ,   will both ensure that it is keeping adequate quantities of goods on hand and provide a model for the private sector, while recognizing that private sector stockpiles and reserves can differ from government ones. This order confers authority related to the release of strategic and critical materials from   to improve   efforts around stockpiling for national defense purposes.

 . 2

.

Designation

. In accordance with section 98f of title  , United States Code, the Under Secretary of   (Under Secretary) is designated to have authority to release strategic and critical materials from  .

 . 3

.

Execution and Consultation

. In executing the authority conferred by this order, the Under Secretary may release strategic and critical materials from   for use, sale, or other disposition only when required for use, manufacture, or production for purposes of national defense. No release is authorized for economic or budgetary purposes. Prior to ordering the release of strategic and critical materials from  , the Under Secretary shall consult with the heads of relevant executive departments and agencies.

 . 4

.

Authority

. (a) All previously issued orders, regulations, rulings, certificates, directives, and other actions relating to any function affected by this order shall remain in effect except to the extent that they are inconsistent with this order or are subsequently amended or revoked under proper authority. Nothing in this order shall affect the validity or force of anything done under previous delegations or another assignment of authority under the Strategic and  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall affect the authorities assigned under Executive Order 13603 of   (National Defense Resources Preparedness).

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
