117 SRES 329 ATS: Amending the eligibility criteria for the Senate Employee Child Care Center.
U.S. Senate
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 329
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 29, 2021
Ms. Klobuchar
(for herself and
Mrs. Blackburn
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Amending the eligibility criteria for the Senate Employee Child Care Center.
1.
Senate Employee Child Care Center
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
Board
means the Board of Directors of the Center;
(2)
the term
Center
means the Senate Employee Child Care Center;
(3)
the term
Congressional employee
means a Congressional employee, as defined in section 2107 of title 5, United States Code, who is not an employee of the Senate or an employee of the Center;
(4)
the term
employee of the Senate
has the meaning given that term in section 207(e)(9) of title 18, United States Code; and
(5)
the term
Federal employee
means an employee, as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, who is not an employee of the Senate, an employee of the Center, or a Congressional employee.
(b)
Reimbursement
For fiscal year 2022, and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Senate shall, from amounts in the appropriations account
Miscellaneous Items
within the contingent fund of the Senate, reimburse the Center for the cost of the basic pay paid to the Executive Director and the cost of the basic pay paid to the Assistant Director of the Center.
(c)
Enrollment
(1)
In general
As a condition of receiving reimbursement under subsection (b), not later than 120 days after the date on which no parent or guardian of a child enrolled at the Center is serving in a position as an employee of the Senate, an employee of the Center, a Congressional employee, or a Federal employee, the Center shall terminate the enrollment of the child at the Center.
(2)
Order
As a condition of receiving reimbursement under subsection (b), the Center shall provide enrollment—
(A)
first, to a child of an individual serving as a Senate employee or as an employee of the Center;
(B)
second, to a child of an individual serving as a Congressional employee; and
(C)
third, if there is an enrollment slot available in the Center, no child of an individual serving as an employee of the Senate, as an employee of the Center, or as a Congressional employee accepts the slot, and no currently enrolled child is ready to transition to the class in which the slot is available, to a child of an individual serving as a Federal employee.
(3)
Effective date; application
(A)
In general
Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of adoption of this resolution.
(B)
Application to employees separating from service before effective date
For purposes of applying paragraph (1) to a parent or guardian of a child enrolled at the Center who ceases serving in a position as a Congressional employee, an employee of the Center, or Federal employee before the date on which paragraph (1) takes effect, the parent or guardian shall be deemed to have separated from such service on the date on which paragraph (1) takes effect.
