117 SRES 788 IS: Designating the week of September 19 through September 23, 2022, as “Malnutrition Awareness Week”.
U.S. Senate
2022-09-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 788
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 21, 2022
Mr. Murphy
(for himself,
Mr. Booker
,
Mrs. Feinstein
,
Mr. Cardin
,
Ms. Sinema
,
Ms. Hassan
, and
Mr. Blumenthal
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Designating the week of September 19 through September 23, 2022, as
Malnutrition Awareness Week
.
Whereas malnutrition is the condition that occurs when an individual does not get enough protein, calories, or nutrients;
Whereas malnutrition is a significant problem in the United States and around the world, crossing all age, racial, class, gender, and geographic lines;
Whereas malnutrition can be driven by social determinants of health, including poverty or economic instability, access to affordable healthcare, and low health literacy;
Whereas there are inextricable and cyclical links between poverty and malnutrition;
Whereas communities of color, across all age groups, are disproportionately likely to experience both food insecurity and malnutrition;
Whereas the Department of Agriculture defines food insecurity as when an individual or household does not have regular, reliable access to the foods needed for good health;
Whereas Black children are almost 3 times more likely to live in a food-insecure household than White children;
Whereas infants, older adults, individuals with chronic diseases, and other vulnerable populations are particularly at risk for malnutrition;
Whereas the American Academy of Pediatrics has found that failure to provide key nutrients during early childhood may result in lifelong deficits in brain function;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition affects between 30 and 50 percent of patients admitted to hospitals, and the medical costs of hospitalized patients with malnutrition can be 300 percent more than the medical costs of properly nourished patients;
Whereas, according to the
National Blueprint: Achieving Quality Malnutrition Care for Older Adults, 2020 Update
, as many as
1/2
of older adults living in the United States are malnourished or at risk for malnutrition;
Whereas, according to recent Aging Network surveys, 76 percent of older adults receiving meals at senior centers and other congregate facilities report improved health outcomes, and 84 percent of older adults receiving home-delivered meals indicate the same;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition in older adults alone costs the United States more than $51,300,000,000 each year; and
Whereas the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition established Malnutrition Awareness Week to raise awareness about, and promote the prevention of, malnutrition across the lifespan: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates the week of September 19 through September 23, 2022, as
Malnutrition Awareness Week
;
(2)
recognizes registered dietitian nutritionists and other nutrition professionals, health care providers, school foodservice workers, social workers, advocates, caregivers, and other professionals and agencies for their efforts to advance awareness about, treatments for, and the prevention of malnutrition;
(3)
recognizes the importance of existing Federal nutrition programs, such as the nutrition programs under title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.
) and Federal child nutrition programs, for their role in combating malnutrition;
(4)
supports increased funding for the critical programs described in paragraph (3);
(5)
recognizes—
(A)
the importance of medical nutrition therapy under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
); and
(B)
the need for vulnerable populations to have access to nutrition counseling;
(6)
recognizes the importance of the innovative research conducted by the National Institutes of Health on—
(A)
nutrition, dietary patterns, and the human gastrointestinal microbiome; and
(B)
how those factors influence the prevention or development of chronic disease throughout the lifespan;
(7)
supports access to malnutrition screening and assessment for all patients;
(8)
encourages the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to evaluate the implementation of newly-approved malnutrition electronic clinical quality measures; and
(9)
acknowledges—
(A)
the importance of access to healthy food for children, especially in child care settings and schools; and
(B)
the benefits of evidence-based nutrition standards.
