117 SRES 542 IS: Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 110th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a safe, inclusive space that supports the next generation of women leaders.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 542
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 10 (legislative day, March 7), 2022
Ms. Duckworth
(for herself,
Mr. Hagerty
,
Mr. Barrasso
,
Mrs. Shaheen
,
Ms. Collins
,
Ms. Hassan
,
Mr. Warnock
,
Ms. Cortez Masto
,
Ms. Warren
,
Mr. King
,
Mr. Braun
,
Mr. Bennet
,
Ms. Baldwin
, and
Mr. Coons
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 110th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a safe, inclusive space that supports the next generation of women leaders.
Whereas March 12, 2022, marks the 110th birthday of Girl Scouts of the United States of America (referred to in this preamble as
Girl Scouts
), the largest and most impactful leadership program for girls in the world;
Whereas, since its founding, Girl Scouts has emphasized public service and civic engagement and fostered a sense of community in girls;
Whereas Girl Scouts works to champion the ambitions, cultivate the talents, and develop the skills of girls to confidently pursue their passions and make the world a better place;
Whereas, during a time when girls are experiencing increased levels of anxiety, stress, loneliness, and depression, Girl Scouts provides community, consistency, and connection for girls and is a safe haven in all the uncertainty;
Whereas Girl Scouts supports the mental health of girls and is an accepting, safe space where—
(1)
girls feel free to be themselves; and
(2)
leaders and peers are sources of support;
Whereas, especially in the time of COVID–19, Girl Scouts plays an indispensable role in engaging girls in afterschool and out-of-school programming and experiences that expand their world and allow them to tap into their inner innovator, changemaker, and leader;
Whereas, at a time when civics education is missing from many schools, Girl Scouts engages girls of all grade levels in civics programming that deepens their understanding of democracy and government, prepares them for a lifetime of civic engagement, and motivates them to take action on issues that are important to them;
Whereas Girl Scouts offers girls 21st century programming in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), the outdoors, entrepreneurship, and beyond, helping girls develop invaluable life skills;
Whereas, to earn the Gold Award, Girl Scouts take on projects that have a measurable and sustainable impact on a community by assessing a need, designing a solution, completing a project, and inspiring others to sustain it; and
Whereas more than 50,000,000 women—trailblazers, visionaries, and leaders—are Girl Scout alums who have made the world a better place: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes Girl Scouts of the United States of America for 110 years of providing a safe, inclusive space where girls can hone their skills and develop leadership abilities;
(2)
congratulates all Girl Scouts who earned the Gold Award in 2021, including the National Gold Award Girl Scouts; and
(3)
encourages Girl Scouts of the United States of America to continue to champion the ambitions, nurture the creativity, and support the talents of future women leaders.
