Section 1. Prohibitions. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to  , the following are, except to the extent a waiver issued under section 4(b) of the Act applies, prohibited:

(a)

the importation into, or exportation from,   on or after  , of any rough diamond, from whatever source, unless the rough diamond has been controlled through the  ;

(b)

any transaction by a   person anywhere, or any transaction that occurs in whole or in part within  , that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this section; and

(c)

any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions of this section.

 . 2. Assignment of Functions. (a) The functions of the President under the Act are assigned as follows:

(i)

sections 4(b), 5(c), 6(b),  , and 12 to the Secretary of  ; and

(ii)

sections 5(a) and 5(b) to the Secretary of the  .

(b)

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   may reassign any of these functions to other officers, officials, departments, and agencies within the executive branch, consistent with applicable law.

(c) In performing the function of the President under section 11 of the Act, the Secretary of   shall establish the coordinating committee as part of   for administrative purposes only, and shall, consistent with applicable law, provide administrative support to the coordinating committee. In the performance of functions assigned by subsection 2(a) of this order or by the Act, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of   shall consult the coordinating committee, as appropriate.

 . 3. Amendments to  . (a) Section 1 of Executive Order  , is revised to read as follows:

"Section 1. Except to the extent provided by section 2 of this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the importation into, or exportation from,   of any rough diamond from  , on or after  , is prohibited."

(b)

Section 2 of Executive Order   is revised to read as follows: "Sec. 2. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order shall not apply to the importation or exportation of any rough diamond that has been controlled through  ."

(c)

Sections 4(c), (d), and (e) of Executive Order   are deleted, and the word "and" is added after the semicolon at the end of section 4(a).

(d)

Section 1 of Executive Order   of  , is revised to read as follows: "Section 1. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the direct or indirect importation into   of all rough diamonds from  , whether or not such diamonds originated in  , on or after  , is prohibited."

 . 4. Definitions. For the purposes of this order and Executive Order  , the definitions set forth in section 3 of the Act shall apply, and the term "Kimberley Process

Certification Scheme" shall not be construed to include any changes to the   after  .

 . 5. General Provisions. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6.   and  . (a) Sections 1 and 3 of this order are effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . The remaining provisions of this order are effective immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
