Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Task Force to    ).

 . 2. Membership. The Task Force shall be comprised of 15 members appointed by the President. Two of the 15 members shall serve as co-chairs of  . The Task Force membership shall include health care experts, officials familiar with   and   health care systems, and representatives from veteran and military service organizations.

 . 3. Mission. The mission of the Task Force shall be to:

(a)

identify ways to improve benefits and services for   beneficiaries and   military retirees who are also eligible for benefits from   through better coordination of the activities of the two departments;

(b)

review barriers and challenges that   and   coordination, including budgeting processes, timely billing, cost accounting, information technology, and reimbursement. Identify opportunities to improve such business practices to ensure high quality and cost effective health care; and

(c)

identify opportunities for improved resource utilization through partnership between   and   to maximize the use of resources and infrastructure, including: buildings, information technology and data sharing systems, procurement of supplies, equipment and services, and delivery of care.

 . 4. Administration.

(a)

  shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for  .

(b)

Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on  . Members appointed from among private citizens of  , however, while engaged in the work of  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–  ), to the extent funds are available.

(c)

The co-chairs of the Task Force shall appoint an Executive Director to coordinate administration of  . To the extent permitted by law, office space, analytical support,

and additional staff support for the   shall be provided by executive branch departments and agencies as directed by the President.

(d)

The heads of the executive branch departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with information as requested by the co-chairs.

(e)

At the call of the co-chairs, the Task Force shall meet as necessary to accomplish its mission.

(f)

The functions of the President under  , as amended, except for those in section 6 of that Act, that are applicable to  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 5. Reports. The Task Force shall report its findings and recommendations to the President, through the Secretary of   and Secretary of  . The Task Force shall issue an interim report in   from the date of the first meeting of  . The Task Force shall issue a final report prior to   of operation.

 . 6. Termination. The Task Force shall terminate   after submitting its final report, but   from the date of this order.  
