Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to use Federal resources effectively to deter, prevent, detect, investigate, proceed against, and prosecute unlawful use by persons of the identifying information of other persons, including through:

(a) increased aggressive law enforcement actions designed to prevent, investigate, and prosecute identity theft crimes, recover the proceeds of such crimes, and ensure just and effective punishment of those who perpetrate identity theft;

(b) improved public outreach by   to better (i) educate the public about identity theft and protective measures against identity theft, and (ii) address how the private sector can take appropriate steps to protect personal data and educate the public about identity theft; and

(c) increased safeguards that   departments, agencies, and instrumentalities can implement to better secure government-held personal data.

 . 2. Establishment of  .

(a) There is hereby established  .

(b) The Task Force shall consist exclusively of:

(i) the Attorney General, who shall serve as Chairman of  ;

(ii) the Chairman of  , who shall serve as Co-Chairman of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Director of  ;

(ix)  ;

(x) the following officers of  :

(A) the Chairman of   of  ;

(B) the Chairperson of   of  ;

(C) the Comptroller of the Currency;

(D) the Director of  ;

(E) the Chairman of  ; and

(F) the Postmaster General; and

(xi) such other officers of   as the Attorney General may designate from time to time, with the concurrence of the respective heads of departments and agencies concerned.

(c) The Chairman and Co-Chairman shall convene and preside at the meetings of  , determine its agenda, direct its work and, as appropriate, establish and direct subgroups of   that shall consist exclusively of members of  . Such subgroups may address particular subject matters, such as criminal law enforcement or private sector education and outreach. The Chairman and Co-Chairman may also designate, with the concurrence of the head of department, agency, or instrumentality of which the official is part, such other   officials as they deem appropriate for participation in the Task Force subgroups.

(d) A member of  , including the Chairman and  , may designate, to perform   or Task Force subgroup functions of the member, any person who is a part of the member's department, agency, or instrumentality and who has high-level policy or operational duties or responsibilities related to the mission of  .

 . 3. Functions of  .  , in implementing the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, shall:

(a) review the activities of executive branch departments, agencies, and instrumentalities relating to the policy set forth in section 1, and building upon these prior activities, prepare and submit in writing to the President within   after the date of this order a coordinated strategic plan to further improve the effectiveness and efficiency of   activities in the areas of identity theft awareness, prevention, detection, and prosecution;

(b) coordinate, as appropriate and subject to section 5(a) of this order,   efforts related to implementation of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order;

(c) obtain information and advice relating to the policy set forth in section 1 from representatives of  , local, and tribal governments, private sector entities, and individuals, in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice and deliberation and without giving any such person a vote or a veto over the activities or advice of  ;

(d) promote enhanced cooperation by Federal departments and agencies with   and local authorities responsible for the prevention, investigation, and prosecution of significant identity theft crimes, including through avoiding unnecessary duplication of effort and expenditure of resources; and

(e) provide advice on the establishment, execution, and efficiency of policies and activities to implement the policy set forth in section 1:

(i) to the President in written reports from time to time, including recommendations for administrative action or proposals for legislation; and

(ii) to the heads of departments, agencies, and instrumentalities as appropriate from time to time within the discretion of the Chairman and the Co-Chairman.

 . 4. Cooperation.

(a) To the extent permitted by law and applicable presidential guidance, executive departments, agencies, and instrumentalities shall provide to the Task Force such information, support, and assistance as  , through its Chairman and  , may request to implement this order.

(b) The Task Force shall be located in   for administrative purposes, and to the extent permitted by law,   shall provide the funding and administrative support the Task Force needs to implement this order, as determined by the Attorney General.

 . 5.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or instrumentality or the head thereof; and

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6. Termination. Unless   is sooner terminated by the President, the Attorney General may terminate   by a written notice of its termination published in  .
