Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a)

Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b)

 ; section 3 of Executive  , as amended ( ).

(c)

 ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(d)

President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(e)

President's   on   and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(f)

President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g)

President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(h)

President's Committee on the   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(i)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j)

President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(k)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(l)

President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(m)

President's  ; Executive Order

  ( ).

(n)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(o)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(p)

Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following   that established committees that have terminated or whose work is completed are revoked:

(a)

Executive  , establishing the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of  ; and

(b)

Executive Order  , establishing  .

 . 4. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   are superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 5. Section 3 of Executive  , as amended, is further amended by striking section 3, except subsection (c) thereof, and inserting immediately preceding subsection (c), the following:

"Section 3.  .   ( ), established on  , shall provide the President through the Secretary of   with advice on the security

of the critical infrastructure sectors and their information systems.

(a)

Membership. The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President, taking appropriate account of the benefits of having members (i) from the private sector, including but not limited to banking and finance, transportation, energy, communications, and emergency services organizations and institutions of higher learning, and  , local, and tribal governments,

(ii) with senior leadership responsibilities for the reliability and availability, which include security, of the critical infrastructure and key resource sectors, (iii) with expertise relevant to the functions of the  , and (iv) with experience equivalent to that of a chief executive of an organization. Unless otherwise determined by the President, no full-time officer or employee of the executive branch shall be appointed to serve as a member of the  . The President shall designate from among the members of   and a Vice Chair, who shall perform the functions of the   if the   is absent, disabled, or in the instance of a vacancy in the  .

(b)

Functions of the  . The   shall meet periodically to:

(i)

enhance the partnership of the public and private sectors in protecting critical infrastructures and their information systems and provide reports on this issue to the President through the Secretary of  , as appropriate;

(ii)

propose and develop ways to encourage private industry to perform periodic risk assessments;

(iii) monitor the development and operations of private sector coordinating councils and their information sharing mechanisms and provide recommendations to the President through the Secretary of   on how these organizations can best foster improved cooperation among the sectors,  , and other   entities;

(iv)

report to the President through the Secretary of  , who shall ensure appropriate coordination with the Assistant to the President for   and  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for   under the terms of this order; and

(v)

advise sector specific agencies with critical infrastructure responsibilities to include issues pertaining to sector and government coordinating councils and their information sharing mechanisms."

In implementing this order, the   shall not advise or otherwise act on matters pertaining to   and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) Communications and, with respect to any matters to which the   is authorized by this order to provide advice or otherwise act on that may depend upon or affect  , shall coordinate with   established by Executive Order  , as amended.

 . 6. Executive  , as amended, is further amended by:

(a)

Striking "including the Millennium" in section 2;

(b)

Changing the title of section 3 to read "Administrative and Project Support"; and

(c)

Adding the following new subsection 3(c):

"(c) Additional project support may be provided, to the extent permitted by law, by the Director of   after consultation with   and  .".

 . 7. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by revising subsection 1–101 to read as follows:

"1–101. There is established   on  ). The members will be the Secretaries of Labor,  , and  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and one representative each from organized labor and the business community, to be designated by the Secretary of  ."

 . 8. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by:

(a)

Striking "not more than 25 members," in section 1 and inserting in lieu thereof "not more than 45 members,";

(b)

Striking "24 of whom" in section 1 and inserting in lieu thereof "44 of whom"; and

(c)

Adding the following new subsection 2(d):

"(d) PCAST shall serve as the President's   under subsections 101(b) and 103(b) of the High-Performance Computing Act of   (Public Law 102–194), as amended (15 U.S.C. 5511(b) and 5513(b)).".

 . 9. Executive Order   is revoked.  . 10. This order shall be effective  .
