GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 22

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE

I. The following order has been received from the President of  :

EXECUTIVE MANSION,

 

,

 .

It is with deep regret that the President announces to the people of   the death of  , one of his honored predecessors, who died at  ,  , last evening.

The long-continued and useful public service and eminent purity of character of the deceased ex-President will be remembered beyond   of mourning in which a nation will be thrown by the event which is thus announced.

As a mark of respect to his memory, it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several   at   be draped in mourning until the close of   on which the funeral shall take place, and that all business be suspended on   of the funeral.

It is further ordered that the War and   cause suitable military and naval honors to be paid on the occasion to the memory of the eminent citizen whose life is now closed.

  GRANT.

By the President:

  FISH,

Secretary of  .

II. In compliance with the President's instructions, the troops will be paraded at 10 o'clock a. m. on   after the receipt of this order at each military post, when the order will be read to them, and the labors of   will thereafter cease.

The national flag will be displayed at half-staff.

At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting sun a single gun, and at the close of   a national salute of thirty-seven guns.

The officers of the   will wear crape on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of the several regiments will be put in mourning for  .

By order of the Secretary of War:

 ,

Adjutant-General.

Special  ,

 ,

 .

The President of   announces the death of ex-President   in the following order:

In pursuance of the foregoing order, it is hereby directed that the ensign at each naval station and of each vessel of   in commission be hoisted at half-mast from sunrise to sunset, and that a gun be fired at intervals of every half hour from sunrise to sunset at each naval station and on board of flagships and of vessels acting singly, on  ,   instant,   of the funeral, where this order may be received in time, otherwise on   after its receipt.

The officers of the   and   will wear the usual badge of mourning attached to the sword hilt and on the left arm for  .
