1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safeguarding American Tourism Act
.
2.
Adjusting applicability of certain PVSA and Jones Act requirements
(a)
PVSA domestic requirements
Section 55103(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Nonapplicablity
This section shall not apply to any vessel with 800 or more passenger berths.
.
(b)
Jones Act requirements
Chapter 121
of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in section 12103, by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Nonapplicability
The requirements of this section shall not apply to any vessel with 800 or more passenger berths and that transports passengers between ports or places in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port.
;
(2)
in section 12112(a)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
except in the case of a vessel described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2),
before
satisfies
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
or
after the semicolon;
(ii)
in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking
; and
and inserting
; or
; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
has 800 or more passenger berths and transports passengers between ports or places in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port; and
.
(c)
Adjustment of citizenship and Navy Reserve requirements
Section 8103(k) of title 46, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(k)
Nonapplicability to certain passenger vessels
Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to any vessel with 800 or more passenger berths and that transports passengers between ports or places in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port.
.
3.
Adjustments relating to permits to land temporarily for alien crewmen
Section 252(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1282(a)
) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
not to exceed—
and all that follows through the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting “not to exceed the period of time during which the crewman is in possession of a valid, unexpired visa issued pursuant to such paragraph, if the immigration officer is satisfied that the crewman intends to depart—
(1)
on the vessel or aircraft on which the crewman arrived; or
(2)
on a vessel or aircraft other than the vessel or aircraft on which the crewman arrived.
.
4.
Rule of construction
Nothing in the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to exempt a vessel that transports passengers between ports or places in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port, from any applicable law of the United States except as explicitly provided in such amendments.
