1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Leadership in Global Tech Standards Act of 2021
.
2.
Support for industry participation in international standards organizations
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Artificial intelligence
The term
artificial intelligence
has the meaning given the term in section 238(g) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note).
(3)
Covered entity
The term
covered entity
means a small business concern that is incorporated and maintains a primary place of business in the United States.
(4)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(b)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a program to support participation by covered entities in meetings and proceedings of standards development organizations in the development of voluntary technical standards.
(c)
Activities
In carrying out the program established under subsection (b), the Administrator shall award competitive, merit-reviewed grants to covered entities to cover the reasonable costs, up to a specified ceiling, of participation of employees of those covered entities in meetings and proceedings of standards development organizations, including—
(1)
regularly attending meetings;
(2)
contributing expertise and research;
(3)
proposing new work items; and
(4)
volunteering for leadership roles such as a convener or editor.
(d)
Award criteria
The Administrator may only provide a grant under this section to a covered entity that—
(1)
demonstrates deep technical expertise in key emerging technologies and technical standards, including artificial intelligence and related technologies;
(2)
commits personnel with such expertise to regular participation in international bodies responsible for developing standards for such technologies over the period of the grant; and
(3)
agrees to participate in efforts to coordinate between the Federal Government and industry to ensure protection of national security interests in the setting of international standards.
(e)
No matching contribution
A recipient of an award under this section shall not be required to provide a matching contribution.
(f)
Evaluation
In making awards under this section, the Administrator shall coordinate with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, who shall provide support in the assessment of technical expertise in emerging technologies and standards setting needs.
(g)
Authorization of appropriation
There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter $1,000,000 to carry out the program established under this section.
