1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Technological Hazards Preparedness and Training Act of 2022
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(2)
Indian Tribal Government
The term
Indian Tribal government
has the meaning given the term
Indian tribal government
in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
).
(3)
Local Government; State
The terms
local government
and
State
have the meaning given those terms in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
).
(4)
Technological Hazard and Related Emerging Threat
The term
technological hazard and related emerging threat
—
(A)
means a hazard that involves materials created by humans that pose a unique hazard to the general public and environment and which may result from—
(i)
an accident;
(ii)
an emergency caused by another hazard; or
(iii)
intentional use of the hazardous materials; and
(B)
includes a chemical, radiological, biological, and nuclear hazard.
3.
Assistance and Training for Communities with Technological Hazards and Related Emerging Threats
(a)
In general
The Administrator shall maintain the capacity to provide States and local governments with technological hazards and related emerging threats technical assistance, training, and other preparedness programming to build community resilience to technological hazards and related emerging threats.
(b)
Authorities
The Administrator shall carry out subsection (a) in accordance with—
(1)
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
);
(2)
section 1236 of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 (
42 U.S.C. 5196g
); and
(3)
the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (
Public Law 109–295
; 120 Stat. 1394).
(c)
Assessment and notification
In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator shall—
(1)
use any available and appropriate multi-hazard risk assessment and mapping tools and capabilities to identify the communities that have the highest risk of and vulnerability to a technological hazard in each State; and
(2)
ensure each State and Indian Tribal government is aware of—
(A)
the communities identified under paragraph (1); and
(B)
the availability of programming under this section for—
(i)
technological hazards and related emerging threats preparedness; and
(ii)
building community capability.
(d)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report relating to—
(1)
actions taken to implement this section; and
(2)
technological hazards and related emerging threats preparedness programming provided under this section during the 1-year period preceding the date of submission of the report.
(e)
Consultation
The Secretary of Homeland Security may seek continuing input relating to technological hazards and related emerging threats preparedness needs by consulting State, Tribal, Territorial, and local emergency services organizations and private sector stakeholders.
4.
Authorization of Appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2024.
