1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Claiming Losses After Disasters Act
.
2.
Special rules for casualty losses arising from major disasters
(a)
Treatment of losses
(1)
In general
Section 165(h)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
Special rule for qualified disaster losses
(A)
In general
If an individual has a qualified net disaster loss for any taxable year, the amount determined under paragraph (2)(A)(ii) shall be the sum of—
(i)
such net disaster loss, and
(ii)
so much of the excess referred to in the matter preceding clause (i) of paragraph (2)(A) (reduced by the amount in clause (i) of this subparagraph) as exceeds 10 percent of the adjusted gross income of the individual.
(B)
Qualified net disaster loss
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
qualified net disaster loss
means the excess of qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses over personal casualty gains.
(C)
Qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses
(i)
In general
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses
means losses described in subsection (c)(3) (determined after application of paragraph (1)) which arise in a qualified disaster area on or after the first day of the incident period of the qualified disaster to which such area relates, and which are attributable to such disaster.
(ii)
Qualified disaster area
(I)
In general
The term
qualified disaster area
means any area with respect to which a major disaster has been declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act if the incident period of the disaster with respect to which such declaration is made begins after December 27, 2020.
(II)
Exception
Such term shall not include any area which is a qualified disaster area as defined in section 301 of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020.
(iii)
Qualified disaster
The term
qualified disaster
means, with respect to any qualified disaster area, the disaster by reason of which a major disaster was declared with respect to such area.
(iv)
Incident period
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
incident period
means, with respect to any qualified disaster, the period specified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the period during which such disaster occurred.
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 165(h)(5)(B)(ii) of such Code is amended by inserting
or (6)
after
paragraph (2)(A)
.
(b)
Dollar limitation
Section 165(h)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
$500 ($100 for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2009)
and inserting
$100 ($500 in the case of any net disaster loss to which paragraph (3) applies)
.
(c)
Standard deduction
(1)
In general
Section 63(c)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
and
at the end of subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
and
, and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
the disaster loss deduction.
.
(2)
Disaster loss deduction
Section 63(c) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(8)
Disaster loss deduction
For the purposes of paragraph (1), the term
disaster loss deduction
means the excess of qualified net disaster losses (as defined in section 165(h)(6)(B)) over the amount of personal casualty gains (as defined in section 165(h)(3)(A)) reduced by any portion of such gains taken into account under section 165(h)(5)(B)(i).
.
(d)
Treatment under alternative minimum tax
Section 56(b)(1)(D)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting
(other than the disaster loss deduction)
after
section 63(c)
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to losses incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019.
