1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Service-Disabled Veteran Opportunities in Small Business Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administration; Administrator
The terms
Administration
and
Administrator
mean the Small Business Administration and the Administrator thereof, respectively.
(2)
Small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans
The term
small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans
has the meaning given the term in section 3(q) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(q)
).
3.
Federal contracting opportunities for small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans
(a)
Required training
Notwithstanding the goals established under section 15(g)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)
) for each Federal agency, the Administration, in consultation with the Office of Veterans Business Development of the Administration, shall provide training to employees with responsibility for procurement or acquisition at any Federal agency that awards less than 3 percent of prime contracts and subcontracts to small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans in a fiscal year.
(b)
Guidance
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the Office of Veterans Business Development of the Administration, shall issue publicly available guidance for each Federal agency that is required to meet the goal under section 15(g)(1)(A)(ii) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)(ii)
).
(c)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administration shall submit to Congress a report detailing, for the fiscal year covered by the report—
(1)
a list of each Federal agency that awarded less than the 3 percent of the prime contracts and subcontracts required under section 15(g)(1)(A)(ii) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)(ii)
);
(2)
the number of training sessions provided by each such Federal agency under subsection (a);
(3)
an overview of the content included in those training sessions; and
(4)
whether additional contracting opportunities were provided to small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans.
