1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Connecting Communities Post Disasters Act of 2021
.
2.
Application of NEPA and NHPA to covered communications projects
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(2)
Communications facility
The term
communications facility
includes—
(A)
any wireless or wireline infrastructure for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds;
(B)
any transmitting device, tower, or support structure, and any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters, or cabinets, associated with the provision of communications services; and
(C)
any antenna or apparatus that—
(i)
is designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency;
(ii)
is designed to be operated, or is operating, from a fixed location; and
(iii)
is added to a tower, building, or other structure.
(3)
Communications service
The term
communications service
means a service for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds.
(4)
Covered project
The term
covered project
means a project that—
(A)
is to be carried out within an area for which the President has declared a major disaster or an emergency under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.);
(B)
is to be carried out not later than 5 years after the date on which the President made the declaration; and
(C)
(i)
replaces a communications facility damaged by the disaster or emergency; or
(ii)
makes improvements to a communications facility—
(I)
that could reasonably be considered as necessary for recovery from the disaster or emergency; or
(II)
to prevent or mitigate damage to the communications facility from a future disaster or emergency.
(b)
NEPA considerations
The Commission shall treat a covered project as a class of action categorically excluded from any requirement to prepare an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)
) in accordance with section 1501.4 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
(c)
National historic preservation considerations
Section 306108 of title 54, United States Code, shall not apply with respect to a covered project—
(1)
for which the Commission is required to issue a permit; or
(2)
that is otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
