1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
COI Elimination Act
.
2.
Abolition and restriction
(a)
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States—
(1)
to seek the abolition of the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel; and
(2)
to combat systemic anti-Israel bias at the United Nations Human Rights Council and other international fora.
(b)
Abolition of certain United Nations groups
Section 721(b) of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001, enacted by reference pursuant to section 1000(a)(7) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (
Public Law 106–113
) (
22 U.S.C. 287
note) is amended by striking
; and the Division on Public Information on the Question of Palestine
and inserting
; the Division on Public Information on the Question of Palestine; and the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel
.
(c)
Withholding of funds
Section 114 of the Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (
Public Law 98–164
;
22 U.S.C. 287e
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (6), by striking
and
after the semicolon;
(B)
in paragraph (7), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(8)
25 percent of the amount budgeted for the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel, unless the Secretary of State submits to Congress a certification that the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel has been abolished.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(e)
If the Secretary of State submits to Congress a certification under paragraph (8) of subsection (a), the United States shall, subject to available appropriations, provide to the United Nations an amount equal to the total amount of funds withheld in accordance with such paragraph during the current and any prior year.
.
