1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Iran China Accountability Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action provided Iran with more than $100,000,000,000 in sanctions relief, circumventing mandatory sanctions imposed pursuant to Acts of Congress.
(2)
In 2016, the United States delivered $400,000,000 in cash to Iran.
(3)
On May 8, 2018, the United States withdrew from the disastrous Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and implemented a campaign of maximum economic pressure on Iran until the regime—
(A)
ends its nuclear program, its pursuit of ballistic missiles, and its support of terrorism and regional destabilization; and
(B)
releases all United States hostages.
(4)
Iran and the People's Republic of China signed a 25-year strategic economic cooperation agreement on March 27, 2021. The relationship between the 2 countries is a strategic partnership that aims to advance the People's Republic of China’s influence in the Middle East.
(5)
The strategic economic cooperation agreement involves a transfer of $400,000,000,000 from the Chinese Communist Party to the Government of Iran.
(6)
The Chinese Communist Party is committing an ongoing genocide against Uyghur Muslims in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and suppressing religious freedom throughout the People's Republic of China.
(7)
The Chinese Communist Party is also suppressing religious freedom by arbitrarily imprisoning Christians, raiding house churches, and attempting to shut down houses of worship not endorsed by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
(8)
The Government of Iran is perpetrating violence against its own people, including through the killing of protesters and the persecution of women and religious minorities. It is also involved in severe violations of human rights throughout the Middle East, including supporting the brutal regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria.
(9)
Since 2021, the People's Republic of China has increased illicit oil purchases from Iran. Such oil purchases would be permitted if the United States lifts sanctions with respect to Iran and re-enters the failed Iran nuclear deal. The People's Republic of China remains Iran’s largest oil customer.
(10)
A portion of the oil that the People's Republic of China buys from Iran (and from other suppliers) might be transshipped to North Korea.
(11)
The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action required that the United Nations arms embargo on Iran expire in October 2020, which would have permitted the People's Republic of China to sell arms to Iran, and permits Iran to sell arms to China.
(12)
The United States Government unequivocally condemns the Hamas-incited terrorist attacks originating from Israeli land currently occupied by Hamas.
(13)
The United States Government recognizes Israel’s right to defend itself from Hamas-incited terrorist attacks.
(14)
President Joseph R. Biden has sought to rejoin the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or a similar agreement, including undertaking talks with Iran and the other parties to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in Vienna, Austria. Those talks are ongoing as of May 2022.
(15)
Officials in the administration of President Biden have acknowledged that rejoining a nuclear agreement with Iran would entail an easing of the economic sanctions stipulated by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
3.
Limitations with respect to any Iran nuclear agreement
(a)
Limitations prior to entering into negotiations
No Federal funds may be obligated or expended to enter into any negotiation with the Government of Iran with respect to an Iran nuclear agreement until the President certifies to Congress that—
(1)
the Government of Iran has terminated—
(A)
all agreements involving the transfer of funds to such Government from the People's Republic of China; and
(B)
all agreements involving a strategic military or security partnership with the People's Republic of China;
(2)
the Government of the People's Republic of China has ceased to incarcerate Uyghur individuals in concentration camps in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region;
(3)
the Government of Iran has terminated all ties and transfer of cash to Iranian proxy forces, including Hamas; and
(4)
the Government of Iran has verified the destruction of any and all chemical weapons, materials, and infrastructure.
(b)
Requirement for contents of agreement
No Federal funds may be obligated or expended for United States entry into any Iran nuclear agreement, and the President may not take any action (including in the form of an agenda, agreement, platform, or plan) to carry out the goals of such an agreement, unless such agreement certifies the destruction of any and all Iranian nuclear and missile capabilities, weapons, infrastructure, chemical weapons, and offensive cyber activity.
(c)
Ratification required
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any Iran nuclear agreement shall be deemed a treaty subject to the requirement that the Senate provide its advice and consent pursuant to article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States. The President may not take any action (including in the form of an agenda, agreement, platform, or plan) to carry out the goals of such an agreement until the Senate has adopted a resolution of advice and consent with respect to that agreement.
(d)
Report required
The Secretary of State shall submit to Congress, prior to the submission of a proposed Iran nuclear agreement to the Senate for its advice and consent in accordance with subsection (c), a report setting forth the manner and extent to which the negotiation and terms of such proposed Iran nuclear agreement comply with each limitation and requirement under this section.
(e)
Iran nuclear agreement defined
In this section, the term
Iran nuclear agreement
means—
(1)
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna July 14, 2015, by Iran and by the People’s Republic of China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, and all implementing materials and agreements related to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action; and
(2)
any successor or other agreement exchanging relief from international sanctions for restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program.
