1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Jackie Walorski was born August 17, 1963, in South Bend, Indiana.
(2)
Jackie Walorski grew up in South Bend raised by her parents, Martha, who worked at a local grocery store, and Raymond, an Air Force veteran and firefighter who owned an appliance store.
(3)
Jackie Walorski graduated from James Whitcomb Riley High School in 1981 and is an alumna of Taylor University.
(4)
Upon her graduation, Jackie Walorski worked as a reporter for a television station in South Bend and later worked for local chapters of the Humane Society and Chamber of Commerce as well as served as a development officer for area universities.
(5)
In 2000, she and her husband Dean Swihart moved to Romania and founded Impact International, a nonprofit foundation that provided medical supplies and attention to impoverished children while they served as missionaries there for four years.
(6)
In 2004, she was elected to the Indiana House of Representatives and subsequently reelected to that office every two years where she served three full terms in office.
(7)
In 2012, she was elected to the United States House of Representatives and subsequently reelected to that office until her death in a tragic car accident in 2022.
(8)
During her service in the United States House of Representatives, she was a passionate advocate for all her constituents, but especially veterans in the area.
(9)
During her service in the United States House of Representatives, she served on the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs for two terms, during that time authoring the Veterans Mobility Safety Act of 2016 (
Public Law 114–256
).
(10)
In 2017, through her persistent advocacy for area veterans, the Department of Veterans Affairs completed construction of a medical clinic in St. Joseph County, Indiana, to meet the needs of Michiana area veterans.
2.
Designation of Jackie Walorski Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic
(a)
Designation
The clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs located in Mishawaka, Indiana, shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and designated as the
Jackie Walorski VA Clinic
.
(b)
References
Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the clinic referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to be a reference to the
Jackie Walorski VA Clinic
.
