1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Border Security Technology Accountability Act of 2015
.
2.
Border security technology accountability
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 231 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
434.
Border security technology program management
(a)
Planning documentation
Each border security technology acquisition program of the Department with a significant lifecycle cost estimate shall—
(1)
have written documentation demonstrating that each such program has an acquisition program baseline approved by the relevant acquisition decision authority; and
(2)
demonstrate that each such program is meeting agreed-upon cost, schedule, and performance thresholds, in compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b)
Adherence to standards
The Under Secretary for Management, in coordination with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall ensure border security technology acquisition program managers who are responsible for carrying out this section adhere to relevant internal control standards identified by the Comptroller General of the United States. The Commissioner shall provide information, as needed, to assist the Under Secretary in monitoring proper program management of border security technology acquisition programs under this section.
(c)
Plan
The Under Secretary for Management, in coordination with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan for testing and evaluation, as well as the use of independent verification and validation resources, for border security technology so that new border security technologies are evaluated through a series of assessments, processes, and audits to ensure the effectiveness of taxpayer dollars.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 433 the following new item:
Sec. 434. Border security technology program management.
.
3.
Prohibition on additional authorization of appropriations
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act. This Act and such amendments shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
