1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Credit Access and Inclusion Act of 2015
.
2.
Positive credit reporting permitted
Section 623 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681s–2
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(1), by striking
subsection (a)
and inserting
subsection (a) or (f)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Full-File credit reporting
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Energy utility firm
The term
energy utility firm
means an entity that provides gas or electric utility services to the public.
(B)
Utility or telecommunication firm
The term
utility or telecommunication firm
means an entity that provides utility services to the public through pipe, wire, landline, wireless, cable, or other connected facilities, or radio, electronic, or similar transmission (including the extension of such facilities).
(2)
Furnishing of information
Subject to the limitation in paragraph (3) and notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person or the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may furnish to a consumer reporting agency information relating to the performance of a consumer in making payments—
(A)
under a lease agreement with respect to a dwelling, including a lease in which the Department of Housing and Urban Development provides subsidized payments for occupancy in a dwelling; or
(B)
pursuant to a contract for a utility or telecommunications service.
(3)
Limitation
Information about the usage of a consumer of any utility services provided by a utility or telecommunication firm may be furnished to a consumer reporting agency only to the extent that the information relates to payment by the consumer for the services of the utility or telecommunication service or other terms of the provision of the services to the consumer, including any deposit, discount, or conditions for interruption or termination of the services.
(4)
Payment plan
An energy utility firm may not report payment information to a consumer reporting agency with respect to an outstanding balance of a consumer as late if—
(A)
the energy utility firm and the consumer have entered into a payment plan (including a deferred payment agreement, an arrearage management program, or a debt forgiveness program) with respect to such outstanding balance; and
(B)
the consumer is meeting the obligations of the payment plan, as determined by the energy utility firm.
.
