1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prescribed Burn Approval Act of 2015
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Grassland Fire Danger Index
The term
grassland fire danger index
means a system for classifying grassland fire danger according to a range of low to moderate to high to very high to extreme, produced by the National Weather Service.
(2)
Prescribed burn
The term
prescribed burn
means a planned fire intentionally ignited or a naturally occurring fire allowed to burn to meet management objectives authorized by law (including regulations).
3.
Limitations on prescribed burns
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), the head of a Federal agency shall not authorize a prescribed burn on Federal land if, for the county or contiguous county in which the Federal land is located, any of the following conditions are present:
(1)
The grassland fire danger index indicates a high, very high, or extreme danger of grassland fire.
(2)
The Chief of the Forest Service has declared a very high or extreme fire danger.
(b)
Exception
The head of a Federal agency may authorize a prescribed burn under a condition described in subsection (a) if the head of the Federal agency obtains prior approval from the applicable State government and local fire officials.
(c)
Liability
(1)
In general
A head of a Federal agency that authorizes a prescribed burn shall be liable for any damage to private property caused by the prescribed burn, notwithstanding
chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code (commonly known as the
Federal Tort Claims Act
) or any State law.
(2)
Damages
The head of a Federal agency liable for damages under paragraph (1) shall pay the damages within 120 days of receipt of a substantiated claim.
(d)
Report
At the end of each fiscal year, the Chief of the Forest Service shall submit to Congress a report describing—
(1)
the number and locations of prescribed burns during that fiscal year; and
(2)
each prescribed burn during that fiscal year that was authorized by the head of a Federal agency pursuant to subsection (b).
