1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2016
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
(C)
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;
(D)
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives;
(E)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives;
(F)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(G)
the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(H)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(I)
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
(J)
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(2)
Domestic terrorism; international terrorism
The terms
domestic terrorism
and
international terrorism
have the meaning given such terms in section 2331 of title 18, United States Code.
(3)
Radicalization
The term
rad­i­cal­i­za­tion
means the process by which an individual shifts from a nonviolent belief system to a belief system that includes the willingness to actively advocate, facilitate, or practice ideologically motivated international terrorism or domestic terrorism as a method to effect societal or political change.
3.
Report on strategy to combat terrorist use of social media
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on United States strategy to combat terrorists’ and terrorist organizations’ use of social media.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An evaluation of the role of social media in radicalization domestically and abroad.
(2)
An analysis of how terrorists and terrorist organizations are using social media, including trends.
(3)
A summary of the Federal Government’s efforts to monitor, review, disrupt, and counter the use of social media by terrorists and terrorist organizations, an evaluation of the success of such efforts, and recommendations for improvement.
(4)
An analysis of how the Federal Government is using social media to counter terrorist propaganda and radicalization domestically and abroad.
(5)
An assessment of the value to law enforcement officials and the intelligence community of reviewing and analyzing social media posts by terrorists and terrorist organizations.
(6)
An overview of available local, State, and Federal social media training programs to understand and combat the use of social media by terrorists and terrorist organizations, the required qualifications for trainers in each program, the intended students of each program, as well as recommendations for improving or expanding existing training opportunities and training participation.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) should be submitted in unclassified form, and may include a classified annex in accordance with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.
4.
Policy and comprehensive strategy to counter terrorists’ and terrorist organizations’ use of social
media
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a comprehensive strategy to counter terrorists’ and terrorist organizations’ use of social media, as committed to in the President’s 2011
Strategic Implementation Plan for Empowering Local Partners to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States
.
(b)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) should be submitted in unclassified form, and may include a classified annex in accordance with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.
5.
Prohibition on new regulatory authority
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as granting the President or any department or agency of the Federal Government authority to promulgate regulations or set standards relating to non-Federal entities.
