1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Hero Left Untreated Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy has successfully treated more than 400 veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction.
(2)
Recent clinical trials and randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies have produced promising measurable outcomes in the evolution of magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy.
(3)
The outcomes described in paragraph (2) have resulted in escalating demand from returning members of the Armed Forces and veterans who are seeking access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy.
(4)
Congress recognizes the importance of initiating innovative pilot programs that demonstrate the use and effectiveness of new treatment options for post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction.
3.
Magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy pilot program
(a)
Pilot program
Commencing not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a pilot program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to treat veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, or opiate addiction.
(b)
Locations
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) at not more than two facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Participants
In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to not more than 50 veterans.
(d)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) for a one-year period.
(e)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the termination of the pilot program under subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
(f)
No authorization of appropriations
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the requirements of this section. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts authorized under provisions of law other than this section.
