1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Unfair Bid Shopping Act of 2018
or the
SUBS Act
.
2.
Requirement to notify Government of changes to subcontractors under construction contracts
(a)
Requirement
An agency awarding a construction contract using sealed bid procedures in an amount greater than $1,500,000 shall—
(1)
require an offeror for the contract to include a list in the offer of each subcontractor that the offeror intends to use in the performance of the contract, for any subcontract expected to be awarded in excess of $100,000; and
(2)
include a clause in the contract requiring that the prime contractor shall submit to the agency a written notification of any subcontractor substituted after the award of the contract for a subcontractor so listed, along with an updated estimate for the cost of performing the work associated with the substituted subcontractor.
(b)
Modification to contract
In the case of a construction contract covered by subsection (a), if the prime contractor notifies the agency of a substituted subcontractor under subsection (a)(2) and there is a significant difference in the cost of performing the work associated with the substituted subcontractor, the contracting officer for the contract may modify the contract to take into account the substitution of subcontractor, including modification of the amount of the contract.
(c)
Agency defined
In this Act, the term
agency
has the meaning provided the term
executive agency
by section 133 of title 41, United States Code, except the term does not include the Department of Defense or any military department, but such term shall include the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
(d)
Revision of Federal Acquisition Regulation
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised to provide for the implementation of this section.
(2)
Notice and Comment
There shall be provided a public notice and comment period of not less than 60 days.
(3)
Final rule
Any final rule promulgated pursuant to this subsection shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the final rule is published in the Federal Register.
(e)
Effective date
This Act shall apply with respect to contracts awarded on or after the date occurring 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
