1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Access to Classified Information in Elections Act
.
2.
Security clearances for candidates during presidential election campaigns
(a)
In general
The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
Public Law 108–458
; 118 Stat. 3856) is amended by inserting after section 7601 the following new section:
7602.
Security clearances for candidates during presidential election campaigns
(a)
Security clearance
An eligible candidate may request a security clearance.
(b)
Procedures
To the extent practicable pursuant to existing procedures and requirements, the appropriate agencies and departments of the Federal Government shall expeditiously provide the necessary background investigations and eligibility determinations with respect to a request for a security clearance by an eligible candidate under subsection (a).
(c)
Disclosure
(1)
List
Beginning not later than January 1 of each year in which a presidential election is held, the Director shall maintain on a publicly accessible internet website of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence a list of each eligible candidate who—
(A)
is granted a security clearance pursuant to a request under subsection (a); and
(B)
provides written consent to the Director to make public the status of such request.
(2)
Updates
The Director shall update the list under paragraph (1) not later than 7 days after the date on which the Director receives the written consent of a candidate under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph.
(d)
Eligible candidate defined
The term
eligible candidate
means a candidate for election to the office of President of the United States or the office of Vice President of the United States described in
section 9002(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents at the beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7601 the following new item:
Sec. 7602. Security clearances for candidates during presidential election campaigns.
.
