1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Chicken and Meat for Children Act
.
2.
Banning meat and poultry products processed in China from school lunches
(a)
School lunch and breakfast
Section 9(h) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1758(h)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Prohibiting the use of certain meat and poultry
A school participating in the school lunch program under this Act or the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1773
) may not serve under such a program:
(A)
Poultry or poultry products (as defined in sections 4(e) and (f) of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 453(e)
and (f))), produced or processed, in whole or in part, in the People's Republic of China.
(B)
Meat or meat food products (as defined in section 1(j) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (
21 U.S.C. 601(j)
)), produced or processed, in whole or in part, in the People's Republic of China.
.
(b)
Child and adult care food program
Section 17(g)(2)(A) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1766(g)(2)(A)
) is amended by striking
this section shall consist of a combination of foods that meet minimum nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of tested nutritional research.
and inserting the following:
this section—
(i)
shall consist of a combination of foods that meet minimum nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of tested nutritional research; and
(ii)
may not include the products described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 9(h)(6).
.
(c)
Summer food service program for children
Section 13(f)(1) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
7 U.S.C. 1431(f)(1)
) is amended by striking
this section shall serve meals consisting of a combination of foods and meeting minimum nutritional standards prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of tested nutritional research.
and inserting the following:
this section—
(A)
shall serve meals consisting of a combination of foods and meeting minimum nutritional standards prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of tested nutritional research; and
(B)
may not serve the products described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 9(h)(6).
.
