1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Spotlight Act
.
2.
Inclusion of contributor information on annual returns of certain organizations
(a)
Repeal of Revenue Procedure
Revenue Procedure 2018–38 shall have no force and effect.
(b)
Inclusion of contributor information
(1)
Social welfare organizations
Section 6033(f)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting
(5),
after
paragraphs
.
(2)
Labor organizations and business leagues
Section 6033 of such Code is amended by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o) and by inserting after subsection (m) the following new subsection:
(n)
Additional requirements for organizations described in subsections
(c)(5)
and
(c)(6)
of section 501
Every organization which is described in paragraph (5) or (6) of section 501(c) and which is subject to the requirements of subsection (a) shall include on the return required under subsection (a) the information referred to in subsection (b)(5).
.
(3)
Effective date
The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to returns required to be filed for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2018.
(c)
Modification to discretionary exceptions
Section 6033(a)(3)(B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(B)
Discretionary exceptions
(i)
In general
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any organization if the Secretary made a determination under this subparagraph before July 16, 2018, that such filing is not necessary to the efficient administration of the internal revenue laws.
(ii)
Recommendations for other exceptions
The Secretary may recommend to Congress that Congress relieve any organization required under paragraph (1) to file an information return from filing such a return if the Secretary determines that such filing does not advance a national security, law enforcement, or tax administration purpose.
.
(d)
Disclosure of information
(1)
In general
Section 6104(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
Nothing in this subsection shall authorize the Secretary to disclose the name and address of any contributor to any organization
and inserting
In the case of any organization described in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section 501(c) which files a return under section 6033, such information shall include the name and address of any contributor to such organization which is required to be included on the return, but nothing in this subsection shall authorize the Secretary to disclose the name or address of any contributor to any other organization
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 6104(d)(3)(A) of such Code is amended by striking the first sentence and inserting the following:
In the case of any organization described in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section 501(c) which files a return under section 6033, any copies of annual returns provided under paragraph (1) shall include information relating to the name and address of any contributor to such organization, but nothing in such paragraph shall require the disclosure of the name or address of any contributor to any other organization (other than a private foundation (within the meaning of section 509(a)) or political organization exempt from taxation under section 527).
.
(3)
Effective date
The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to returns required to be filed for taxable years ending after December 31, 2017.
