1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rebuilding Resilient Energy Systems Act of 2017
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Efficient
The term
efficient
means, with respect to a technology, product, material, equipment, or practice, the use of the technology, product, material, equipment, or practice in a manner that results in reduced energy consumption or energy costs for the same level of service or a higher level of service.
(2)
Resilient
The term
resilient
means, with respect to a system or a component of a system, the ability of the system or component to adapt to a changing condition and withstand and rapidly recover from a disruption.
3.
Use of resilient energy systems to rebuild following disasters
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts awarded under sections 403, 404, 406, 408, and 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170b
, 5170c, 5172, 5174, 5189f) may be used to build, repair, restore, reconstruct, or replace an energy system or building as a result of a major disaster or emergency designated by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.) during calendar year 2017 in a manner that—
(1)
is more resilient;
(2)
is more efficient;
(3)
provides continuous flow of power to facilities critical to public health, safety, and welfare;
(4)
maximizes the use of clean energy resources and energy storage technologies; and
(5)
promotes lower energy bills to the extent feasible.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subsection (a) creates eligibility for assistance for any energy provider that is not otherwise eligible for assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.).
(c)
Coordination with private entities
(1)
In general
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall designate a representative of the Agency to coordinate with one or more private entities that are interested in donating energy system technologies and services to rebuild in accordance with subsection (a) following a major disaster or emergency.
(2)
Coordination among agencies
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is encouraged to coordinate with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(d)
Technical assistance
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, each National Laboratory (as defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15801
)), in coordination with the programs of the Department of Energy that provide assistance to States and industry, shall make technical assistance available to Federal, State, and local agencies and private entities that are interested in—
(A)
developing plans or providing guidance on the design of a resilient and efficient energy system or building; and
(B)
building, repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing an energy system or building in accordance with subsection (a) following a major disaster or emergency.
(2)
Consultation among agencies
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is encouraged to consult with the Secretary of Defense regarding the experience of the Department of Defense in building resilient power systems.
