1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Caregivers Access and Responsible Expansion for All Veterans Act
or the
CARE for All Veterans Act
.
2.
Expansion of eligibility for participation in family caregiver program of Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Expansion of eligibility
Subsection (a)(2)(B) of section 1720G of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the semicolon the following:
, or, in accordance with paragraph (11), has such an injury or illness that was so incurred or aggravated before such date
.
(b)
Clarification of eligibility for illness
Such subsection is further amended by inserting
or illness
after
serious injury
.
(c)
Expansion of needed services in eligibility criteria
Subsection (a)(2)(C) of such section is amended—
(1)
in clause (ii), by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (ii) the following new clause (iii):
(iii)
a need for regular or extensive instruction or supervision in completing two or more instrumental activities of daily living; or
.
(d)
Eligibility for assistance
Subsection (a) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(11)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, a family caregiver of an eligible veteran who is eligible under paragraph (2) solely because of a serious injury or illness (including traumatic brain injury, psychological trauma, or other mental disorder) incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service before September 11, 2001, is eligible for assistance under this subsection as follows:
(A)
Not earlier than October 1, 2019, if the family caregiver would merit a monthly personal caregiver stipend under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(V) in an amount that is in the highest tier specified in the schedule established by the Secretary under paragraph (3)(C)(i).
(B)
Not earlier than October 1, 2021, if the family caregiver would merit such a stipend in an amount that is in the middle tier specified in such schedule.
(C)
Not earlier than October 1, 2023, if the family caregiver would merit such a stipend in an amount that is in the lowest tier specified in such schedule.
.
