1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
State Assistance for Tropical Floriculture Research Act of 2018
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Tropical flowers contribute a natural and beautiful element to human environments, retain cultural, historic, and ceremonial significance to native peoples and others, and sustain an agricultural economy that employs thousands of Americans.
(2)
Given the value of tropical flowers, the public stands to benefit from scientific research that protects these flowers against diseases.
3.
Tropical floriculture research grant program
(a)
Program established
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish and carry out a grant program to make grants, on a competitive basis, to State departments of agriculture for the research and development of disease resistant varieties of tropical flowers.
(2)
Minimum amount of grant
A grant awarded under this subsection may not be less than $250,000 for a fiscal year.
(b)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State department of agriculture shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary of Agriculture may require, including the State department of agriculture’s plan to research and develop disease resistant varieties of tropical flowers.
(c)
Temporary ineligibility for subsequent grants
The Secretary of Agriculture shall determine a State department of agriculture to be ineligible to receive a grant payment under this section for a fiscal year if the Secretary determines that the State department of agriculture did not comply with the plan submitted under subsection (b).
(d)
Audit
(1)
Audit required
For each year in which a State department of agriculture receives a grant under this section, the State department of agriculture shall conduct an audit of the use of such grant funds.
(2)
Submission of audit
Not later than 30 days after an audit is completed pursuant to paragraph (1), the State department of agriculture shall submit such audit to the Secretary of Agriculture.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal years 2018 through 2020.
