1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Breaking Addiction Act of 2017
.
2.
State option to provide medical assistance for community-based inpatient substance use disorder
treatment services to nonelderly adults
(a)
In general
Section 1905 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(16)—
(A)
by striking
, and, (B)
and inserting
, (B)
; and
(B)
by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
, and (C) community-based inpatient substance use disorder treatment services for individuals over
21 years of age and under 65 years of age
; and
(2)
in subsection (h)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting
(including a substance use disorder)
after
mental health conditions
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
For purposes of subsection (a)(16)(C), the term
community-based inpatient substance use disorder treatment services
means services described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) that are furnished in an
institution for mental diseases (as defined in section 1905(i) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(i)) that has not more than 60 beds.
.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than 4 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall submit to Congress, and make available to the public,
a report on the availability of, and access to, community-based inpatient
substance use disorder treatment services provided under State Medicaid
plans under title XIX of the Social Security Act (or waivers of such
plans) (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) pursuant to the amendments made by
subsection (a). The report shall include recommendations regarding a
permanent and expanded waiver of the limitation on payment under the
subdivision (B) following section 1905(a)(29) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(29)) to permit all States to provide such services to
all individuals eligible to receive medical assistance under such State
Medicaid plans.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to calendar quarters beginning on or after the
date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, but in
no case shall such amendments apply earlier than October 1, 2017.
