1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Collaboration for Today’s Education Act
or the
CTE Act
.
2.
Establishment of grant program
(a)
In general
From the amounts appropriated to carry out this section, the Secretary shall establish a program to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible secondary schools.
(b)
Eligible schools
In order to be eligible, a secondary school must form a partnership with a community college to allow students in their junior and senior school years to experience career and technical education courses at such community college.
(c)
Application
To be eligible for a grant under this section, a secondary school shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate, which shall include—
(1)
a description of the proposed project to be carried out;
(2)
a description of the number of students who will be able to participate; and
(3)
an analysis of how the project will enable students in their junior and senior school years to experience career and technical education courses at a community college.
(d)
Grant uses
(1)
In general
A secondary school receiving a grant under this section shall use such grant only for a project to encourage students in their junior and senior school years to experience career and technical education courses at a community college.
(2)
Payment to third parties
A secondary school receiving a grant under this section may use such grant to reimburse third parties, including a community college, for costs incurred as part of a project to encourage students in their junior and senior school years to experience career and technical education courses at a community college.
(e)
Reporting requirement
(1)
Recipients of grant
Not later than 1 year following the date of receipt of a grant awarded under this section, a secondary school receiving such a grant shall submit to the Secretary a report analyzing the effect such grant had on encouraging students in their junior and senior school years to experience career and technical education courses at a community college.
(2)
Secretary
Not later than 2 years following the date of receipt of a report required pursuant to paragraph (1), and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report compiling the results of the reports submitted during the previous year pursuant to paragraph (1).
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
career and technical education
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2302
).
(2)
The term
community college
has the meaning given the term
junior or community college
in section 312 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1058
), but does not include a for-profit institution.
(3)
The term
secondary school
has the meaning given such term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(4)
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
