1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Youth Access to American Jobs Act of 2017
.
2.
2–2–2 Pilot Program
(a)
In general
From the amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall award grants to 10 eligible entities to carry a program described in subsection (c) for eligible students.
(b)
Application requirements
An eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary as such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Uses of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use such grant to carry out a program under which each eligible student participating in the program—
(1)
during grades 11 and 12 at a high school served by the local educational agency in the eligible entity, enrolls in and completes STEM and STEM-focused career and technical education courses, and courses that prepare such student for community college;
(2)
upon graduating from the high school, enrolls in a course of study related to a high-growth skills industry, an in-demand industry or occupation, the manufacturing field, or other vocational or career and technical education field at a community college in the eligible entity; and
(3)
upon receiving an associate’s degree from the community college, enrolls and participates, for a 2-year period, in—
(A)
the State apprenticeship program of the eligible entity; or
(B)
the joint-labor management training program of the eligible entity.
(d)
Eligible students
To be eligible to participate in a program described in subsection (c), a student shall, prior to participating in the program, demonstrate academic ability and a commitment to pursue a career in a high-growth skills industry, an in-demand industry or occupation, the manufacturing field, or other vocational or career and technical education field.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Career and technical education
The term
career and technical education
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2302
).
(2)
Community college
The term
community college
has the meaning given the term
junior or community college
in section 312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1058(f)
).
(3)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means a partnership among—
(A)
a local educational agency;
(B)
a community college; and
(C)
a State apprenticeship program or a joint-labor management training program.
(4)
ESEA terms
The terms
local educational agency
,
high school
, and
State
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(5)
In-demand industry sector or occupation
The term
in-demand industry sector or occupation
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Investment and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
).
(6)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
(7)
State apprenticeship program
The term
State apprenticeship program
means an apprenticeship program that provides an apprenticeship with an employer in a high-growth skills industry, an in-demand industry or occupation, the manufacturing field, or other vocational or career and technical education field to students with an associate’s degree related to such industry, occupation, or field.
(8)
STEM
The term
STEM
means—
(A)
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics; and
(B)
other career and technical education subjects that build on the subjects described in subparagraph (A).
