1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Housing Assistance Program Accountability Act
.
2.
Authorization of Disaster Housing Assistance pilot programs
(a)
In General
Pursuant to the authority under, and meeting the requirements of, sections 408 and 426 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174
, 5189d), the President, acting through the Administrator, shall establish at least 3 pilot programs, to be administered by an appropriate Federal agency, to provide for long-term rental housing assistance and case management services to eligible families affected by a covered disaster in a State.
(b)
Consultation
In establishing a pilot program under this section, the Administrator shall consult with the Governor of the State in which the disaster occurred.
(c)
Limitation
In establishing a pilot program under this section, the Administrator shall ensure that multiple pilot programs are not established in any 1 State.
(d)
Responsibilities
The Administrator shall—
(1)
ensure that each pilot program established under subsection (a) assists eligible families with transitioning toward self-sufficiency through case management services provided in a cost-effective manner; and
(2)
determine whether the cost of each pilot program and the services provided under any such pilot program are competitive with other housing options provided by the Administrator.
(e)
Extent of Services
The Administrator, in consultation with other Federal agencies with appropriate expertise, shall determine the extent of case management services required for an eligible family to obtain self-sufficiency.
(f)
Termination
The Administrator may terminate each pilot program established under subsection (a) at any time the Administrator considers appropriate.
(g)
Interagency Agreement
To carry out each pilot program, the Administrator and a relevant Federal agency shall enter into an interagency agreement that, at a minimum—
(1)
includes policies, procedures, and framework for—
(A)
program management;
(B)
financial management; and
(C)
oversight;
(2)
establishes requirements for cost and program effectiveness data to be maintained and reported to the Administrator on a regular basis; and
(3)
identifies the type and amount of administrative fees that will be charged under each pilot program.
(h)
Cost-Effectiveness of Program
(1)
Program comparison data
The Federal agency implementing the pilot program established in subsection (a) shall provide the Administrator with such data as may be necessary for the Administrator to conduct a comparison between each pilot program established under subsection (a) and other temporary housing options provided by the Administrator under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.).
(2)
Case management data
The Federal agency implementing the pilot program established in subsection (a) shall provide the Administrator with such data as may be necessary to determine the extent of case management services required and provided under each program and the effectiveness of such services in transitioning eligible families toward self-sufficiency.
(3)
Fees
The Administrator shall ensure that—
(A)
the administrative fees of each pilot program are reasonable compared to the cost of temporary housing assistance provided to eligible families;
(B)
case management services fees are reasonable compared to the cost of the case management services provided to eligible families; and
(C)
administrative fees and case management services fees do not exceed the amounts provided under the Interagency Agreement executed on March 25, 2013, to implement Disaster Housing Assistance Program–Sandy.
(i)
Analysis and Report
(1)
Analysis
After termination of a pilot program, the Administrator shall conduct an analysis comparing the costs, benefits, and effectiveness of each pilot program, including any case management services provided, with other temporary housing options provided by the Administrator under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.).
(2)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the Administrator terminates a pilot program, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate a report that contains the analysis required under paragraph (1).
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(2)
Covered disaster
The term
covered disaster
means a major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
)—
(A)
during 2017 in the territories of the United States; or
(B)
during 2018 in a State.
(3)
Eligible families
The term
eligible families
means families that the Administrator determines are eligible for housing assistance under section 408 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174
) and case management services under section 426 of such Act.
(4)
Families
The term
families
has the meaning given such term in section 3(b)(3)(B) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437a
).
(5)
Governor; State
The terms
Governor
and
State
have the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
).
