1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Homegrown Organic Act of 2017
.
2.
Programs for producers transitioning to organic production systems
(a)
Conservation reserve program
Section 1235(f) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3835(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or a socially
and inserting
a farmer or rancher transitioning to organic farming or ranching, or a socially
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Cap on enrollment
The Secretary may establish a cap on the number of acres subject to contract modifications described in paragraph (1) with regard to farmers or ranchers transitioning to organic farming or ranching if the Secretary determines that such a cap would be necessary to mitigate any significant erosion of organic commodity premiums.
(4)
Definition
In this section, a
farmer or rancher transitioning to organic farming or ranching
means a farmer or rancher who agrees to gain organic certification under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (
7 U.S.C. 6501
et seq.) while the land to be transferred pursuant to a contract modification described in paragraph (1) is subject to a contract under the conservation reserve program.
.
(b)
Conservation stewardship program
Section 1238G of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3838g
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Establishment of organic transition bundles
(1)
Availability of organic transition bundles
In entering into conservation stewardship contracts under section 1238F, the Secretary shall make organic transition bundles available to producers transitioning to organic production.
(2)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a contract that includes an organic transition bundle, a producer shall agree to gain organic certification under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (
7 U.S.C. 6501
et seq.) while participating in a contract under the conservation stewardship program.
(3)
Organic transition bundle
In this subsection, the term
organic transition bundle
means a grouping of conservation activities that the Secretary determines are—
(A)
appropriate for producers tran­si­tion­ing into organic production, including organic cropping, livestock, and grazing systems; and
(B)
based on existing groupings or bundles of conservation activities designed for organic producers.
(4)
Enrollment
The Secretary may cap enrollment of land to be covered by conservation stewardship contracts that include organic transition bundles per year, on a commodity basis, if the Secretary determines that such a cap would be necessary to mitigate any significant erosion of organic commodity premiums.
(5)
Termination of contracts
The Secretary may terminate a conservation stewardship contract that includes payments for organic transition bundles, or modify such a contract to terminate such payments, if the Secretary determines that the producer—
(A)
is not pursuing organic certification; or
(B)
is not in compliance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (
7 U.S.C. 6501
et seq).
.
(c)
Removal of payment cap for certain payments within the environmental quality incentives program
Section 1240B(i) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3839aa–2(i)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (3); and
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively.
