1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Speed Up Broadband Access Act of 2018
.
2.
Prohibition on Federal funds for broadband in States that limit public, co-op, or nonprofit broadband providers
(a)
In general
No Federal funds may be used for the provision of broadband service in any State that has in effect a law, regulation, or other requirement having the force or effect of law that prohibits, limits, places conditions on, or regulates the provision of broadband service—
(1)
by a political subdivision of such State (or an agency or instrumentality of such subdivision) to residents of such political subdivision; or
(2)
by any nonprofit organization, or any person who is cooperatively organized, to residents of such State.
(b)
Availability of Federal funds for public, co-Op, and nonprofit broadband providers
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the use of Federal funds for the provision of broadband service by an entity described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a).
(c)
Treatment of generally applicable State laws
For purposes of subsection (a), a law, regulation, or other requirement having the force or effect of law that applies generally to the provision of broadband service in a State, including by private, for-profit providers, shall not be considered to prohibit, limit, place conditions on, or regulate the provision of broadband service by an entity described in paragraph (1) or (2) of such subsection.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Broadband service
The term
broadband service
means advanced telecommunications capability (as defined in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (
47 U.S.C. 1302
)).
(2)
Federal funds
The term
Federal funds
means any grant, loan, loan guarantee, or other form of financial support that is provided by the Federal Government.
(3)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means any corporation or association, however organized, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(4)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
