117 HRES 1230 IH: Adopting changes to the standing rules, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1230
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 18, 2022
Mr. McGovern
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Adopting changes to the standing rules, and for other purposes.
1.
Separate order
On any legislative day through the remainder of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress, the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
2.
Changes to the standing rules
(a)
Privileged reports by the Committee on Rules
Clause 6(a) of rule XIII is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (2), by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (3) as subparagraph (4); and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (2) the following new subparagraph:
(3)
when the proposed text of such a report has been made available to Members, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner prior to the convening of that legislative day; or
.
(b)
Suspensions
Clause 1(a) of rule XV is amended by striking the second sentence.
3.
Remote voting by proxy
Section 3(s) of House Resolution 8 is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking
and
;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
any reference to
the House
in sections 1(a) and 2(a)(2)(B) shall be construed to include a reference to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union;
(5)
section 3(a)(1) shall not apply; and
(6)
for purposes of sections 1, 2, and 3 and regulations issued pursuant to section 6, the term
Members
shall include Delegates and the Resident Commissioner and the term
state
shall include territories and the District of Columbia, except that—
(A)
nothing in this paragraph authorizes Delegates or the Resident Commissioner to cast a vote in the House or record their presence in the House; and
(B)
Delegates and the Resident Commissioner may only be designated as a proxy by a Delegate or the Resident Commissioner.
.
