117 HRES 1391 IH: Expressing support of the designation of September 2022 as Peripheral Artery Disease Awareness Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-09-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1391
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 22, 2022
Mr. Payne
(for himself,
Mr. Bilirakis
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Lawson of Florida
, and
Ms. Underwood
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Expressing support of the designation of September 2022 as Peripheral Artery Disease Awareness Month.
Whereas peripheral artery disease (PAD) affects nearly 20,000,000 Americans, including an estimated 200,000 Americans who are from disproportionately minority communities;
Whereas PAD is a chronic condition that causes narrowing or blockage of blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the legs;
Whereas the primary cause of PAD is the buildup of plaque in the arteries or atherosclerosis;
Whereas many risk factors for PAD include smoking, high blood pressure, atherosclerosis, diabetes, high cholesterol, and being 60 years of age or older;
Whereas individuals with type 2 diabetes and PAD are four times more likely to lose a limb compared to individuals without either such disease;
Whereas individuals who smoke are three times more likely to develop PAD;
Whereas researchers analyzing data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (1999–2004) found that 5.9 percent of the United States population aged 40 years or older have a low ankle brachial index (ABI) (≤0.9), which indicates the presence of PAD;
Whereas African Americans are twice as likely to be diagnosed with PAD and up to three times as likely to have an amputation;
Whereas if not properly diagnosed, PAD can lead to nontraumatic lower limb amputations;
Whereas unnecessary amputations drastically reduce the quality of life for PAD patients; and
Whereas educating people on the risks of PAD and encouraging early screenings are crucial to preventing unnecessary amputations: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of Peripheral Artery Disease Awareness Month; and
(2)
encourages the people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate awareness and educational activities.
