117 HRES 1333 IH: Ride-Along Resolution
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-09-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1333
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 9, 2022
Ms. Craig
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Requiring Members of the House of Representatives to serve one shift in a passenger seat of a law enforcement vehicle observing the work day of a local law enforcement officer once during the first term of a Member in the House, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Ride-Along Resolution
.
2.
Requirement for Members of the House of Representatives to participate in one ride-along during first term in the House
(a)
In general
With respect to any Member of the House of Representatives serving a first term as a Member of the House, each such Member shall participate in one ride-along in the respective congressional district of the Member not later than 1 year after the date such Member is sworn in as a Member of the House.
(b)
Regulations
The Committee on House Administration shall promulgate regulations to carry out this resolution.
(c)
Violation
If the Committee on Ethics determines that a Member has not satisfied the requirement under
subsection (a)
by the deadline described in such subsection, the Committee shall—
(1)
publish the name of the Member on a readily available, public list on the website of the Committee that identifies Members who have not satisfied such requirement; and
(2)
cause to be published in the Congressional Record information with respect to the failure of the Member to satisfy such requirement.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Ride-Along
The term
ride-along
means an arrangement for a Member of the House of Representatives to serve one shift in a passenger seat of a law enforcement vehicle observing the work day of a local law enforcement officer in the respective congressional district of such Member.
(2)
Member of the House of Representatives
The term
Member of the House of Representatives
includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
(e)
Effective date
This section shall apply with respect to the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress and each succeeding Congress.
