117 HRES 830 IH: Recognizing Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day on December 14, 2021.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-12-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 830
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 2, 2021
Ms. Barragán
(for herself,
Mr. Keller
,
Mr. Veasey
, and
Mrs. Spartz
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day on December 14, 2021.
Whereas, each December, we recognize the positive contributions of interscholastic athletic administrators;
Whereas the position of school athletic administrator is recognized as a profession, which, like other academic professions, benefits greatly from continued education and certification;
Whereas school athletic programs develop young people physically, mentally, socially, and emotionally by the life lessons learned through participation and competition;
Whereas interscholastic athletic participation is an integral part of a student’s educational experience and enhances the learning and maturation process;
Whereas athletic administrators are committed to developing and maintaining comprehensive education-based athletic programs which seek the highest development of all student athletes;
Whereas athletic administrators fulfill professional responsibilities with integrity, commitment to equality, industriousness to long hours, and fairness;
Whereas athletic administrators preserve, enhance, and promote the educational values of athletics in our schools through professional growth in the areas of education, leadership, and service;
Whereas athletic administrators embody high standards of ethics, sportsmanship, and personal conduct, and encourage coaching staffs, student athletes, and community members to commit to these high standards as well;
Whereas, during the COVID–19 pandemic, athletic administrators continue to be at the forefront of developing and implementing safety practices, exhibiting wisdom in preparation, adaptation, change, and collaboration; and
Whereas the athletic programs run by these administrators have impacts that extend well beyond the playing field, athletic venues, and even the school: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the annual recognition of Interscholastic Athletic Administrators’ Day;
(2)
commends athletic administrators for their commitment and leadership provided to student athletes at the secondary school level; and
(3)
commends the National Interscholastic Athletic Administrators Association as the leading organization that prepares those who lead secondary school athletics throughout the country, providing continuous learning, compassion, and preparation within the profession.
