117 HRES 776 IH: Expressing the support of the House of Representatives for continued efforts to strengthen science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, especially for girls and minority students, in order to diversify and expand the opportunities available to all Americans in the global market and to bolster the vitality of the United States economy.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-11-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 776
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 5, 2021
Mrs. Beatty
(for herself,
Mr. Costa
,
Ms. DelBene
,
Mr. Foster
, and
Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
RESOLUTION
Expressing the support of the House of Representatives for continued efforts to strengthen science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, especially for girls and minority students, in order to diversify and expand the opportunities available to all Americans in the global market and to bolster the vitality of the United States economy.
Whereas the competitiveness of the United States in the global economy in the 21st century depends on innovations based on citizens’ developed knowledge of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM);
Whereas knowledge in STEM fields is necessary to ensure the security of the United States;
Whereas an increasing number of jobs require an educational foundation in science and mathematics;
Whereas high-quality education in science will remain critical to understanding and combating the growing issue of climate change;
Whereas hands-on experience with STEM education shows students that they can make a meaningful, tangible impact on today’s world;
Whereas the emergence of the arts as a necessary factor in STEM curriculum further develops students’ aptitudes in communication, critical thinking, and collaboration, and inspires innovation and creativity;
Whereas today’s scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and educators have the power to inspire the innovators of tomorrow;
Whereas women, African Americans, Native Americans, and Latinx people are currently underrepresented in STEM fields, meaning that much of the United States potential remains untapped;
Whereas diversity in any field incorporates different experiences and ideas which ultimately lead to more creative and pioneering solutions to the problems that the United States faces today and the challenges it will face in the future;
Whereas increasing the inclusion of women and people of color in science and technology sectors provides role models who will inspire students of all backgrounds and identities;
Whereas America’s greatest achievements have stemmed from the courageous dreams of innovators of the past, and those accomplishments could only be bolstered by the increased inclusion and education of women and people of color in the field of STEM innovation; and
Whereas November 8 is recognized as
National STEM Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
National STEM Day
;
(2)
acknowledges the many individuals currently involved in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields, as well as those individuals interested in pursuing STEM careers;
(3)
recognizes the important role women and people of color have played in STEM fields; and
(4)
appreciates the role STEM continues to play in contributing to long-lasting, innovative changes to improve society.
