117 HRES 1363 IH: Supporting the designation of September 19, 2022, as “National Stillbirth Prevention Day”, recognizing tens of thousands of American families that have endured a stillbirth, and seizing the opportunity to keep other families from experiencing the same tragedy.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-09-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1363
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 19, 2022
Ms. Adams
(for herself,
Mrs. Hinson
,
Mrs. Axne
,
Ms. Castor of Florida
,
Mr. Cohen
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Ms. Herrera Beutler
,
Mrs. Miller-Meeks
,
Ms. Roybal-Allard
, and
Mr. Tonko
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of September 19, 2022, as
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
, recognizing tens of thousands of American families that have endured a stillbirth, and seizing the opportunity to keep other families from experiencing the same tragedy.
Whereas, 23,000 pregnancies in the United States end in stillbirth each year, and the COVID–19 pandemic has exacerbated the crisis;
Whereas racial disparities persist in birth outcomes, with Black, Hispanic, and Indigenous families at the greatest risk of losing a baby to stillbirth;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the annual number of stillbirths far exceeds the number of deaths among children under 15 years of age due to sudden infant death syndrome, car accidents, drowning, guns, fire, poison, and flu combined;
Whereas, in the last 2 decades, the stillbirth rate in the United States declined by a negligible 0.4 percent, and in a report published by the World Health Organization comparing progress in improving stillbirth rates, the United States ranked 183 out of 195 countries;
Whereas stillbirths are devastating and have a profound and lifelong impact on the families who endure them;
Whereas stillbirth is linked to an increased risk of maternal mortality;
Whereas, with increased awareness and better data collection, the United States will be able to better understand why stillbirths in the United States are happening at an alarming rate and identify what can be done to combat this crisis;
Whereas proven stillbirth prevention efforts have the power to save a minimum of 7,500 babies every year from preventable stillbirth in the United States, and innovations in stillbirth prevention could save thousands of additional families in the United States from the heartache of losing a baby each year;
Whereas recognizing
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
is an opportunity to increase awareness, support evidence-based prevention efforts, promote research, encourage improved data collection and greater understanding, and provide community to those who have experienced stillbirth; and
Whereas
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
calls on the President and all other Federal officials to use their authorities to reduce stillbirths in the United States by at least 33 percent and ensure every expectant family is educated on how to reduce the risk of losing a baby to stillbirth: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
;
(2)
understands the importance of advancing evidence-based prevention efforts; and
(3)
requests that the President issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe National Stillbirth Prevention Day with appropriate awareness programs and activities.
