116 HRES 790 IH: Expressing support for the designation of November 2021 as “Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-11-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 790
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 12, 2021
Mr. Carson
(for himself,
Ms. Eshoo
,
Mr. McKinley
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Cohen
,
Mr. Keating
,
Ms. Moore of Wisconsin
, and
Ms. Lee of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of November 2021 as
Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month
.
Whereas pancreatic cancer will kill an estimated 48,220 people in the United States in 2021;
Whereas pancreatic cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States;
Whereas, in 2020 and 2021, pancreatic cancer has killed three American icons—Congressman John Lewis, Congressman Alcee Hastings, and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg;
Whereas an additional 60,430 individuals in the United States will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2021;
Whereas of those diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, 72 percent will die within the first year of their diagnosis;
Whereas persistent health care inequities and disparities for communities of color compound the devastation of pancreatic cancer;
Whereas the incidence rate for pancreatic cancer among Black Americans is 20 percent higher than that of any other racial demographic;
Whereas the pancreatic cancer death rate is 17 percent higher for Black men than for White men;
Whereas the lack of pancreatic cancer early detection research accelerates the racial unfairness in the United States health care system, with devastating consequences for minorities;
Whereas pancreatic cancer has no early detection test to diagnose this cancer quickly and accurately determine the presence of this cancer;
Whereas, if diagnosed early, the 5-year survival rate for pancreatic cancer patients is above 80 percent;
Whereas if pancreatic cancer is detected late, the 5-year survival rate drops to less than 10 percent;
Whereas without adequate funding and early detection research, pancreatic cancer is not discovered until the late stages of this horrific cancer where treatment options are limited;
Whereas in fiscal year 2020, pancreatic cancer received its own dedicated research program at the Department of Defense under the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs;
Whereas in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2020 (division A of
Public Law 116–93
), Congress appropriated funds to the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs, with $6,000,000 going to the Pancreatic Cancer Research Program;
Whereas during the consideration of H.R. 6395 (the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021), the House of Representatives agreed to an amendment to the bill that was filed with the Committee on Rules by Representative Carson of Indiana to increase the authorization of funds by $5,000,000 for pancreatic cancer research, including an early detection initiative, by the Department of Defense, and the House of Representatives passed the bill with that amendment included;
Whereas during the consideration of H.R. 4350 (the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022), the House of Representatives agreed to an amendment to the bill that was filed with the Committee on Rules by Representative Carson, Representative Eshoo, and Representative McKinley to increase the authorization of funds by $5,000,000 for pancreatic cancer research, including an early detection initiative, by the Department of Defense, and the House of Representatives passed the bill with that amendment included;
Whereas during the consideration of H.R. 7617 (the Defense, Commerce, Justice, Science, Energy and Water Development, Financial Services and General Government, Homeland Security, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2021), the House of Representatives agreed to an amendment to the bill that was filed with the Committee on Rules by Representative Carson of Indiana and Representative Eshoo to increase the amount appropriated for a pancreatic cancer early detection initiative from $10,000,000 to $15,000,000, and the House of Representatives passed the bill with that amendment included; and
Whereas the 117th Congress has a unique opportunity to make a historic investment in pancreatic cancer research at the Department of Defense: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month
;
(2)
recognizes the critical importance of increasing funding for pancreatic cancer research at the Department of Defense and the National Institutes of Health to find effective treatments for this cancer and reduce the disproportionate impact on communities of color; and
(3)
supports the efforts of the many advocacy organizations to educate communities in the United States about pancreatic cancer and the need for more research funding, early detection initiatives, diagnostic tests, and effective treatments.
