107 HRES 780 IH: Recognizing the service and sacrifices of the Transportation Security Administration’s employees and officers on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the establishment of TSA and the role TSA’s employees and officers play in keeping our Nation secure.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-11-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 780
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 5, 2021
Mr. Thompson of Mississippi
(for himself,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Mr. Katko
, and
Mr. Gimenez
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the service and sacrifices of the Transportation Security Administration’s employees and officers on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the establishment of TSA and the role TSA’s employees and officers play in keeping our Nation secure.
Whereas November 19, 2021, marks the 20th anniversary of the enactment of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (
Public Law 107–71
), which amended title 49, United States Code, to establish the Transportation Security Administration (TSA);
Whereas the TSA was established following the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, with the mission to secure transportation systems and restore confidence in air travel;
Whereas for 20 years TSA employees and officers have bravely served on the front lines keeping our skies and the traveling public safe, even in the face of targeted attacks such as that which took the life of Officer Gerardo Hernandez;
Whereas the TSA has remained on the front lines at our Nation’s airports throughout the COVID-19 pandemic;
Whereas the TSA has had over 10,000 employees test positive for COVID-19, with 32 TSA employees having lost their lives from March 2020 through October 2021;
Whereas since its establishment, TSA employees and officers have endeavored to improve security domestically and internationally, across all modes of transportation, against a wide range of evolving physical and cyber threats; and
Whereas Americans will continue to look to TSA to be vigilant in the face of known and emerging threats: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes—
(A)
the service and sacrifices of the TSA’s employees and officers on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the establishment of TSA; and
(B)
the role TSA’s employees and officers play in keeping our Nation secure; and
(2)
encourages all Americans to observe TSA’s 20th anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
