117 HRES 1398 IH: Supporting the designation of the week beginning September 25, 2022, as “National Source Water Protection Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-09-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1398
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 28, 2022
Mrs. Axne
(for herself,
Mrs. Miller-Meeks
,
Mr. Ruppersberger
,
Mr. Trone
,
Mr. Curtis
, and
Mrs. Lee of Nevada
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of the week beginning September 25, 2022, as
National Source Water Protection Week
.
Whereas a resilient supply of safe drinking water is critical to the health and success of the Nation;
Whereas source water protection is a proactive approach to safeguarding, maintaining, and improving the quality and quantity of drinking water sources and the land that surrounds them;
Whereas protecting drinking water sources is critical to public health, the environment, the economy, and national security;
Whereas safe, reliable water is essential for food preparation, daily sanitation, and the everyday conveniences on which the people of the United States rely, and is increasingly vital to protect as the population continues to grow; and
Whereas the recognition of National Source Water Protection Week—
(1)
celebrates stewardship of water and watersheds;
(2)
reaffirms commitment of the United States to protecting and sustaining drinking water supply sources for current and future generations; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to protect, conserve, and restore drinking water sources: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
National Source Water Protection Week
;
(2)
supports the protection of source water for public health and economic prosperity;
(3)
recognizes the central role of water in sustaining life and supports innovative ways to conserve, protect, and restore the Nation’s drinking water sources;
(4)
supports collaboration at the local, State, and Federal levels to achieve greater awareness, education, and engagement to protect and enhance drinking water supplies; and
(5)
supports investments for more resilient and reliable drinking water sources, both ground and surface water, to better withstand the impacts of extreme floods and droughts.
