117 HRES 1157 IH: Supporting the designation of June 6, 2022, as ГўВҖВңCASA/GAL VolunteersГўВҖВҷ DayГўВҖВқ.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-06-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1157
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 7, 2022
Ms. Porter
(for herself,
Ms. Schakowsky
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mrs. McBath
,
Mr. Yarmuth
,
Ms. Bonamici
,
Mrs. Hinson
,
Mr. San Nicolas
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mr. Blumenauer
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mr. David Scott of Georgia
,
Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Mr. DeSaulnier
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
, and
Mr. Vargas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of June 6, 2022, as
CASA/GAL VolunteersвҖҷ Day
.
Whereas Court Appointed Special Advocate (referred to this preamble as
CASA
) and Guardian ad Litem (referred to in this preamble as
GAL
) volunteers advocate nationwide for the best interests of children before courts in cases with allegations of abuse or neglect;
Whereas the CASA/GAL Program provides best interest advocacy for children reflected in guiding principles which recognize the importance of family preservation and reunification, equity, diversity, inclusion, and collaboration;
Whereas more than 216,000 children in the United States enter the foster care system, through no fault of their own, due to allegations of abuse or neglect and rely on adults to advocate on their behalf;
Whereas CASA and GAL volunteers, appointed by a judgeГўВҖВ”
(1)
provide the court with the comprehensive and objective information the court needs to make the most well-informed decisions and help ensure positive outcomes for children, youth, and families; and
(2)
take time to build meaningful and authentic relationships with such children, youth, and families;
Whereas research shows that when a CASA or GAL volunteer is assigned to a case, outcomes are strengthened for children and families, a higher number of services are ordered, and children are significantly less likely to reenter the child welfare system, perform better academically and behaviorally, and have higher levels of hope;
Whereas, in January 1974, Congress enacted the Child Abuse Prevention Treatment Act (
42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.
);
Whereas the Child Abuse Prevention Treatment Act provides financial assistance to States for the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect and includes a requirement that in every case a GAL is appointed to represent the best interest of the child;
Whereas such GAL requirement was subsequently amended to provide that the GAL may be an attorney or a court-appointed special advocate;
Whereas today, CASA and GAL volunteers span 49 States and the District of Columbia, including 950 State organizations and local programs, and more than 94,000 volunteers offer their services to nearly 250,000 children, youth, and families; and
Whereas 2022 marks the 40th anniversary of the National CASA/GAL Association for Children: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
supports the designation of
National CASA/GAL VolunteersГўВҖВҷ Day
; and
(2)
commends Court Appointed Special Advocate and Guardian ad Litem volunteers for their dedication and hard work in advocating for the best interest of children so that every child who has experienced abuse or neglect can be safe, have a permanent home, and have the opportunity to thrive.
