117 HRES 749 IH: Recognizing the outstanding contributions of respiratory therapists to patient care during “National Respiratory Care Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-10-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 749
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 27, 2021
Mr. Raskin
(for himself,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Ms. Wild
,
Mr. Trone
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Mr. Brown
,
Mr. Ruppersberger
, and
Mr. Lieu
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the outstanding contributions of respiratory therapists to patient care during
National Respiratory Care Week
.
Whereas respiratory therapists are front-line experts in ventilator management and have worked tirelessly to care for patients in critical need during the ongoing COVID–19 public health emergency;
Whereas respiratory therapists are the only allied health professionals clinically educated in all aspects of pulmonary medicine and who treat and care for patients with deficiencies and abnormalities of the cardiopulmonary system;
Whereas respiratory therapists’ expertise is applicable in many settings, including, but not limited to, various inpatient and outpatient facilities (such as acute care, urgent care, long-term care, subacute care, skilled nursing facilities), physicians’ offices, sleep laboratories and clinics, and patients’ homes; and
Whereas respiratory therapists’ invaluable contributions to the health care system and their patients’ health and well-being too often go unrecognized: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes and applauds the invaluable contributions of respiratory therapists as front-line workers during the COVID–19 pandemic;
(2)
expresses gratitude to respiratory therapists for their work to save the lives of the most vulnerable COVID–19 patients;
(3)
appreciates the exceptional care that respiratory therapists provide every day to individuals who suffer from chronic respiratory diseases; and
(4)
celebrates the contributions of respiratory therapists and their expertise in recognition of
National Respiratory Care Week
.
