117 HRES 912 EH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3076) to provide stability to and enhance the services of the United States Postal Service, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6617) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-02-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 912
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
February 8, 2022
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3076) to provide stability to and enhance the services of the United States Postal Service, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6617) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3076) to provide stability to and enhance the services of the United States Postal Service, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Reform now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117–32 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Reform or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the Member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6617) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
3.
(a)
House Concurrent Resolution 69 is hereby adopted.
(b)
For purposes of the joint session to receive the President of the United States on March 1, 2022, former Members, Delegates, and Resident Commissioners shall not be admitted to the Hall of the House or rooms leading thereto.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
