117 HRES 1497 IH: Recognizing the contributions of the Women In Military Service For America Memorial (“the Military Women’s Memorial”).
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-11-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1497
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 29, 2022
Mrs. Lawrence
(for herself,
Ms. Dean
,
Miss González-Colón
,
Mrs. Cammack
,
Ms. Sherrill
, and
Ms. Houlahan
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Veterans' Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the contributions of the Women In Military Service For America Memorial (
the Military Women’s Memorial
).
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial remains America’s only major national memorial to honor and tell the stories of the Nation’s 3,000,000 women who have served in the Nation’s defense, beginning with the American Revolution;
Whereas over the past 25 years, the Military Women’s Memorial has educated millions of visitors and the American public about the service, commitment, and contributions of women to the Nation’s defense;
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial has created a one-of-a-kind repository, which, to date, has catalogued and preserved some 304,000 women’s records of military service and makes them accessible to visitors and online;
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial has created the largest of its kind, world-class archive of artifacts and memorabilia related to women’s military service, with over 8,000 donations, including photographs, documents, textiles, artifacts, and audiovisual material representing all eras and services of American women’s military history;
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial created and maintains a growing oral history collection of some 1,400 accounts of women’s heroism, service, and sacrifice from World War I to the present;
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial is the leading resource about military women and their service for scholars, journalists, and researchers from around the world, with a research library of over 1,500 books by and about military women; and
Whereas the Military Women’s Memorial serves as a touchstone destination for hundreds of annual Honor Flights, military ceremonies, and retirements and a gathering point for military and service organizations from across the country: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives recognizes the Military Women’s Memorial for its 25 years of service as America’s only historical repository to document the service of all the Nation’s military women, and for educating and inspiring the public through engaging exhibitions, its world-class collections, and meaningful programs and events for all generations.
