117 HRES 835 IH: Recognizing and supporting the goals and ideals of a National Runaway Prevention Month.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-12-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 835
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 2, 2021
Mr. Yarmuth
(for himself,
Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois
,
Mr. Bacon
, and
Mr. Young
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Recognizing and supporting the goals and ideals of a National Runaway Prevention Month.
Whereas results from the Voices of Youth Count national survey, as published by Chapin Hall at the University of Chicago in
Missed Opportunities: Youth Homelessness in America
, indicates that an estimated 4,200,000 youth and young adults between 13 and 24 years of age experienced homelessness during a 12-month period ending in 2017, including—
(1)
an estimated 700,000 children between 13 and 17 years of age who experienced unaccompanied homelessness; and
(2)
an estimated 3,500,000 young adults between 18 and 24 years of age;
Whereas the rates of youth experiencing homelessness are similar in rural and nonrural areas;
Whereas runaway youth often have been expelled from their homes by their families, have experienced abuse and trauma, are involved in the foster care system, lack of resources to secure their own basic needs, and may be ineligible or unable to access medical or mental health resources;
Whereas individuals without a high school degree or general educational development certificate are nearly 4 times more likely to report homelessness than their peers, making lack of education a leading risk factor for homelessness;
Whereas youth of color and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth experience higher rates of homelessness than their straight and White peers;
Whereas pregnant youth, parents who are 25 years of age or younger, and their children experience higher rates of homelessness than youth and young adults without children;
Whereas runaway and homeless youth are at an increased risk for exploitation and becoming victims of sex and labor trafficking, and between 19 percent and 49 percent of young people who experience homelessness will become victims of trafficking;
Whereas youth who run away from home or from foster care are at increased risk of encountering the police and the court system due to laws that make actions necessary for survival while homeless, illegal;
Whereas preventing youth from running away from home or from foster care and supporting youth in high-risk situations is a family, community, and national responsibility;
Whereas the future well-being of the Nation is dependent on the value placed on youth and the resources provided for under-resourced youth to acquire the knowledge, skills, and opportunities necessary to help youth successfully develop into safe, healthy, and productive adults;
Whereas COVID–19 in the United States, which was declared a national emergency under the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.
), has had a disproportionate effect on youth experiencing homelessness;
Whereas effective programs supporting runaway youth and assisting youth and their families in providing safe and stable homes succeed because of partnerships created among families, youth-based advocacy organizations, community-based human service agencies, law enforcement, schools, faith-based organizations, and businesses; and
Whereas the National Runaway Safeline and the National Network for Youth are leading the promotion of National Runaway Prevention Month in November 2021—
(1)
to raise awareness of the runaway and homeless youth crisis and the issues these young people face;
(2)
to educate the public about solutions and the role they can play in ending youth homelessness; and
(3)
to bring together a broad range of stakeholders to tackle the crisis of youth homelessness: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives recognizes and supports the goals and ideals of a National Runaway Prevention Month.
