117 HRES 1428 IH: Condemning, in the strongest terms, cyberattacks carried out by the Government of Iran.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-10-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1428
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 7, 2022
Mr. Torres of New York
(for himself,
Mr. Aderholt
,
Mr. Himes
, and
Mrs. McClain
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Condemning, in the strongest terms, cyberattacks carried out by the Government of Iran.
Whereas, according to a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) joint cybersecurity advisory, in approximately May 2021, a group of Iranian state cyber actors affiliated with Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), known as HomeLand Justice, gained access to the Government of Albania’s network;
Whereas, in July 2022, HomeLand Justice launched a ransomware attack against Albania attempting to paralyze public services, as well as steal and destroy government documents;
Whereas, in September 2022, HomeLand Justice launched a second cyberattack on Albania’s border control system, the Total Information Management System (TIMS);
Whereas these attacks caused major disruptions to Albanian Government services;
Whereas Albania cut off diplomatic relations with Iran on September 7, 2022, and gave the diplomatic mission and Iranian Embassy staff 24 hours to vacate the country;
Whereas the United States National Security Council issued a statement on September 7, 2022, calling for the Iranian Government to be held accountable for this unprecedented cyber incident;
Whereas, on September 14, 2022, the Department of the Treasury issued sanctions on ten Iranian individuals, including Mansour Ahmadi, Ahmad Khatibi Aghda, Ali Agha-Ahmadi, Mohammad Agha Ahmadi, Moín Mahdavi, Aliakbar Rashidi-Barjini, Amir Hossein Nikaeen Ravari, Mostafa Haji Hosseini, Mojtaba Haji Hosseini, and Mohammad Shakeri-Ashtijeh, in addition to the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence and Security and the Iranian Minister of Intelligence, Esmail Khatib;
Whereas the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Department of the Treasury, the FBI, U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM), the National Security Agency (NSA), the CISA, and the National Security Council (NSC) have been working alongside private sector partners to support Albania’s recovery and a thorough investigation of the incidents; and
Whereas Albania is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and close ally of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns, in the strongest terms, the cyberattacks carried out by the Government of Iran;
(2)
encourages continued coordination with Albania to ensure their cybersecurity defenses are equipped to defend against future cyber intrusions and attacks; and
(3)
urges continued accountability of those who commit cybercrimes.
