1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Veterans’ Experience Act of 2023
.
2.
Establishment of Veterans Experience Office
(a)
In general
Chapter 3
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
325.
Veterans Experience Office
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department within the Office of the Secretary an office to be known as the
Veterans Experience Office
(hereinafter referred to as the
Office
in this section).
(b)
Head of Office
(1)
The head of the Office shall be the Chief Veterans Experience Officer.
(2)
The Chief Veterans Experience Officer shall—
(A)
be appointed by the Secretary from among individuals the Secretary considers qualified to perform the duties of the position; and
(B)
report directly to the Secretary.
(c)
Function
The functions of the Office are as follows:
(1)
To carry out the key customer experience initiatives of the Department, including setting the customer experience strategy, framework, policy, and other guidance for the Department.
(2)
Requiring the heads of other organizations and offices within the Department to report regularly on customer experience metrics, action plans, and other customer experience improvement efforts.
(3)
To carry out such other functions relating to customer experience as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d)
Staff and resources
(1)
The Secretary shall ensure that the Office has such staff, resources, and access to customer experience information as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Office.
(2)
Funds available for basic pay and other administrative expenses of other Department organizations shall also be available to reimburse the Office for all services provided at rates which will recover actual costs for services provided to such organizations.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 3 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
325. Veterans Experience Office.
.
