1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Report on Proposed CMS Staffing Ratios Act
.
2.
Report on impact of proposed rule on access of veterans to long-term care facilities
(a)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the impact of the proposed rule submitted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services relating to
Medicare and Medicaid programs; minimum staffing standards for long-term care facilities and Medicaid institutional payment transparency reporting
(88 Fed. Reg. 61352; published September 6, 2023) on the access of veterans to long-term care facilities under the laws administered by the Secretary, which shall include the following:
(1)
The number of State homes at which current staffing would not meet the threshold for minimum staffing outlined in such proposed rule.
(2)
The number of veterans who reside in a State home described in paragraph (1).
(3)
The number of community nursing homes currently contracted with the Department of Veterans Affairs that would not meet the threshold for minimum staffing outlined in such proposed rule.
(4)
The number of veterans who reside in a community nursing home described in paragraph (3).
(5)
An assessment of whether or not such proposed rule would have any impact on community living centers of the Department.
(6)
An analysis of whether the Department will be able to adequately meet the long-term care needs of veterans after the full implementation of such proposed rule, including veterans in—
(A)
rural and highly rural areas;
(B)
medically underserved areas;
(C)
territories of the United States; or
(D)
Tribal areas.
(7)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
State home defined
In this section, the term
State home
has the meaning given that term in section 101(19) of title 38, United States Code.
