1.
Forest inventory and analysis program blue ribbon panel
Section 3 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 1642
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Forest inventory and analysis program blue ribbon panel
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the National Association of State Foresters, shall convene a blue ribbon panel (referred to in this subsection as the
Panel
) to review the forest inventory and analysis program established under this section (referred to in this subsection as the
program
).
(2)
Composition
(A)
Number
The Panel shall be composed of not fewer than 10, and not more than 20, members.
(B)
Members
Members of the Panel shall—
(i)
include recognized national leaders from across State and Federal agencies, universities, industry, and nongovernmental organizations; and
(ii)
have knowledge of and expertise in forest biometrics, inventory, and remote sensing technology.
(3)
Duties
(A)
Review
The Panel shall conduct a review of the past progress, current priorities, and future needs of the program with respect to national monitoring of forest carbon, climate change, forest health, and sustainable wood products.
(B)
Considerations
The review under subparagraph (A) shall include consideration of—
(i)
the modernization of the program—
(I)
broadly; and
(II)
specifically relating to the integration of advanced remote sensing technologies and methods such as small area estimation; and
(ii)
the possibility of more public-private-academic partnerships under the program to help meet the goals of the program and external needs, particularly relating to research priorities, operational implementation of current or ongoing science, and decision support.
(C)
Report
Not later than March 31, 2024, the Panel shall submit to the Secretary, the Secretary of the Interior, and Congress a report describing the review conducted under subparagraph (A).
(4)
Administrative matters
(A)
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
The Panel shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the nongovernmental members of the Panel.
(B)
Committees
The Panel may establish 1 or more committees within the Panel as the Panel determines to be appropriate.
(C)
Compensation
A member of the Panel shall serve without compensation.
(D)
Administrative support
The Secretary shall provide such administrative support as is necessary for the Panel to carry out its duties.
(E)
Federal Advisory Committee Act
The Panel shall be exempt from
chapter 10
of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Federal Advisory Committee Act
).
.
