SECTION 1. Designation of the Power Authority of the State of New York. The Power Authority of the State of New York is hereby declared to be the designee of the Government of the United States of America for the construction of the works referred to in the Order of Approval of the International Joint Commission of October 29, 1952.

SEC. 2. Establishment of United States Section of St. Lawrence River Joint Board of Engineers. There is hereby established the United States Section of the St. Lawrence River Joint Board of Engineers, composed of two members and hereinafter referred to as the United States Section. The Secretary of the Army and the Chairman of the Federal Power Commission are hereby designated members. Each may designate an alternate to act for him as member of the United States Section.

SEC 3. Duties of the United States Section. The United States Section shall represent the Government of the United States on the Joint Board of Engineers in the performance of the duties specified in condition (g) of the Order of Approval, and is authorized to act with the Canadian Section in the approval of the plans and specifications of the works and the programs of construction thereof, submitted for approval of the respective Governments as required by the Order of Approval, and to assure the construction of the works in accordance with such approval.

SEC. 4. Assistance to the United States Section. The Department of the Army and the Federal Power Commission are authorized to furnish such assistance, including facilities, supplies and personnel, to the United States Section as may be consonant with law and necessary for the purpose of effectuating this order.

SEC. 5. Reports to the President. The United States Section shall submit its final report to the President upon the completion of construction and shall submit such Interim reports as may appear to be desirable.

SEC. 6. Effective date. This order shall be effective upon the date that the License becomes final.
