SECTION 1. (a) The Federal Power Commission is hereby designated and empowered to perform the following described functions:

(1) To receive all applications for permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection, at the borders of the United States, of facilities for the transmission of electric energy between the United States and a foreign country.

(2) To receive all applications for permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection, at the borders of the United States, of facilities for the exportation or importation of natural gas to or from a foreign country.

(3) Upon finding the issuance of the permit to be consistent with the public interest, and, after obtaining the favorable recommendations of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense thereon, to issue to the applicant, as appropriate, a permit for such construction, operation, maintenance, or connection. The Commission shall have the power to attach to the Issuance of the permit and to the exercise of the rights granted thereunder such conditions as the public interest may in its judgment require.

(b) In any case wherein the Federal Power Commission, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Defense cannot agree as to whether or not a permit should be issued, the Commission shall submit to the President for approval or disapproval the application for a permit with the respective views of the Commission, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense.

SEC. 2. The Chairman or Acting Chairman of the Federal Power Commission is hereby designated and empowered to sign any permits issued by the Federal Power Commission pursuant to section 1 (a) (3) hereof.

SEC 3. The Federal Power Commission is authorized to issue such rules and regulations, and to prescribe such procedures, as it may from time to time deem necessary or desirable for the exercise of the authority delegated to it by this order.

SEC. 4. All Presidential Permits heretofore issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 8202 of July 13, 1939, and in force at the time of the issuance of this order, and all permits issued hereunder, shall remain in full force and effect until modified or revoked by the President or by the Federal Power Commission.

SEC 5. Executive Order No. 8202 of July 13, 1939, is hereby revoked.
