1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No CCP (Chinese Communist Police) in the United States Act of 2023
.
2.
Transparency regarding Chinese bilateral security agreements and joint police initiatives
(a)
Department of State publication
The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall publish on the Department of State website and any other travel alert system operated by the Department of State a list of all countries that have a bilateral security agreement or joint police initiative with the Government of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party. The Secretary shall update the list not less frequently than every 6 months.
(b)
FBI Briefing
The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide an annual briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on the People's Republic of China’s widespread presence internationally through bilateral security agreements and joint police initiatives.
3.
Notification of State and local law enforcement, public, and Congress regarding Chinese police stations
If the Federal Bureau of Investigation discovers a police station operated by the People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party within the United States, the Director of the Bureau shall—
(1)
not later than 24 hours after the discovery, notify the applicable State and local law enforcement agencies;
(2)
not later than 72 hours after the discovery, notify the public through a law enforcement bulletin; and
(3)
(A)
not later than 15 days after the discovery, provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees; and
(B)
after the briefing under subparagraph (A), provide the appropriate congressional committees with a situational update not less frequently than once every 60 days.
4.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
