1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Clearances for Terrorist Sympathizers Act of 2024
.
2.
Prohibition on granting or renewing security clearances to persons who have publicly expressed support for a foreign terrorist organization, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or any affiliate of such Corps
(a)
In general
Subsection (b) of section 3002 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3343
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
covered person who is an
and inserting the following: “covered person who—
(1)
is an
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
has ever publicly expressed support for any organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(a)
), the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or any affiliate of such Corps, including Hamas and Hezbollah; or
(3)
has ties to or supports the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any affiliate of such Corps, including Hamas and Hezbollah.
; and
(4)
in the subsection heading by striking
Prohibition
and inserting
Prohibitions
.
(b)
Periodic audits
Such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Periodic audits
Not less frequently than once every two years, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall—
(1)
audit the clearance granting and renewal process of each Federal agency that has authority to grant or renew a security clearance; and
(2)
for each Federal agency audited pursuant to paragraph (1), submit to Congress a certification as to whether the Federal agency has effective measures in effect to determine whether an applicant for a security clearance has ever expressed support for any organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(a)
), the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or any affiliate of such Corps, including Hamas and Hezbollah.
.
