1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Halting the Epidemic of Addiction and Loss Act of 2023
or the
HEAL Act of 2023
.
2.
References to opioid overdose reversal agents in HHS grant programs
(a)
In general
In promulgating regulations or issuing guidance or other documents for any grant program of the Department of Health and Human Services that addresses opioid misuse or use disorders, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
) shall ensure that any reference to an opioid overdose reversal agent—
(1)
shall be a reference to any drug or device approved, cleared, or otherwise legally marketed under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
) for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose; and
(2)
shall not be limited to a reference to naloxone.
(b)
Existing references
(1)
Update
Not later than December 31, 2023, the Secretary shall update each regulation, guidance, and other document described in paragraph (2) such that any reference to an opioid overdose reversal agent, including any reference to naloxone, is a reference to any drug or device approved, cleared, or otherwise legally marketed under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
) for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose.
(2)
Regulations, guidance, documents described
A regulation, guidance, or other document described in this paragraph is any regulation, guidance, or other document of the Department of Health and Human Services that—
(A)
was issued before the date of enactment of this Act; and
(B)
is for—
(i)
the grant program for State and Tribal response to opioid use disorders under section 1003 of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 290ee–3a; commonly referred to as
State Opioid Response Grants
and
Tribal Opioid Response Grants
); or
(ii)
the grant program for priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance under section 516 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–22
).
