1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
U.S. and Pacific Islands Forum Partnership Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Pacific Islands Forum (referred to in this Act as
PIF
) was established in 1971.
(2)
PIF is committed to accelerating economic growth, social progress, cultural development, and regional peace and stability.
(3)
The United States is committed to a free and open Indo-Pacific and to peace, security, and prosperity in the region.
(4)
The United States seeks to maintain and further develop a constructive and cordial relationship with PIF and its member nations, including the Freely Associated States (the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, and Palau), which have special economic and security ties with the United States.
(5)
The United States seeks to contribute to regional stability in the Pacific region through assistance efforts to combat illegal fishing, enhance maritime security, build resilient infrastructure, and promote sound, just, and responsive governance within the Pacific region to empower citizens, help combat corruption, and strengthen nations’ autonomy.
(6)
The Smaller Island States of PIF (the Cook Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Palau, and Tuvalu) are the most vulnerable of PIF countries.
(7)
Increased United States diplomatic engagement and developmental assistance can help alleviate the vulnerabilities linked to the small size of the Smaller Island States, their lack of natural resources, remoteness, and across the PIF region, by addressing the range of development challenges that limit their capacity to ensure democratic, economic, and environmental resilience and long-term sustainable development.
(8)
It is in the long-term interest of the United States to maintain and expand a relationship with PIF and its member nations.
3.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States must increase its diplomatic activity and presence in the Pacific, particularly among Pacific Island nations; and
(2)
the Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum—
(A)
should coordinate policies across the Pacific region with like-minded democracies; and
(B)
should have a direct line to the President and the Secretary of State to communicate regarding the unique and particular needs of Pacific partner nations.
4.
Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum
Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2651a
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(n)
Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum
(1)
Appointment
The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a qualified individual to serve as Special Envoy to the Pacific Islands Forum (referred to in this section as the
Special Envoy
). The Special Envoy may not concurrently serve as a United States Ambassador to an individual country.
(2)
Duties
The Special Envoy shall—
(A)
represent the United States in its role as dialogue partner to the Pacific Islands Forum; and
(B)
carry out such other duties as the President or the Secretary of State may prescribe.
.
5.
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
that describes how the Department of State will increase its ability to recruit and retain highly-qualified ambassadors, special envoys, and other senior personnel in posts in Pacific island countries as the Department expands its diplomatic footprint throughout the region.
