1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop CRT Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
,
secondary school
, and
State
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
(3)
Promote
The term
promote
, when used with respect to a race-based theory, means—
(A)
to include race-based theories or materials that advocate such theories in curricula, reading lists, seminars, workshops, trainings, or other educational or professional settings in a manner that could reasonably give rise to the appearance of official sponsorship, approval, or endorsement;
(B)
to contract with, hire, or otherwise engage speakers, consultants, diversity trainers, and other persons for the purpose of advocating such theories; and
(C)
to compel students to profess a belief in such theories.
(4)
Race-based theory
The term
race-based theory
means a theory that—
(A)
any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race;
(B)
the United States is a fundamentally racist country;
(C)
the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution of the United States is a fundamentally racist document;
(D)
an individual's moral worth is determined by the race of the individual;
(E)
an individual, by virtue of the race of the individual, is inherently racist or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; or
(F)
an individual, because of the race of the individual, bears responsibility for the actions committed by members of the race of the individual.
3.
Codification of Executive order
Executive Order 13950 (85 Fed. Reg. 60683; relating to combating race and sex stereotyping) shall have the force and effect of law, except that the Executive order shall not apply to elementary schools, secondary schools, or institutions of higher education.
4.
Federal funds limitation
(a)
Prohibition on award of funds to certain elementary and secondary schools
No Federal funds received by a State or a local educational agency may be allocated to an elementary school or secondary school that promotes race-based theories or compels teachers or students to affirm, adhere to, adopt, or profess beliefs contrary to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.
).
(b)
Prohibition on award of funds to certain institutions of higher education
No Federal funds may be awarded to an institution of higher education if such institution compels teachers or students to affirm, adhere to, adopt, or profess race-based theories or beliefs contrary to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.
).
(c)
Rules of construction
(1)
Protected speech not restricted
Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict the speech of a student, a teacher, or any other individual outside of a school setting.
(2)
Access to materials for the purpose of research or independent study
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent an individual from accessing materials that advocate race-based theories for the purpose of research or independent study.
(3)
Contextual education
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent an elementary school or secondary school from stating race-based theories or assigning materials that advocate race-based theories for educational purposes in contexts that make it clear the school does not sponsor, approve, or endorse such theories or materials.
