1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expedited Performance Indicator Act
.
2.
Implementation of primary indicators of performance
(a)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall fully implement the requirements of section 116 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3141
), for programs described in subclauses (I) through (III) of subsection (b)(3)(A)(ii) of that section 116 (referred to in this Act as
covered programs
), including—
(1)
finalizing the objective statistical model described in subsection (b)(3)(A)(viii) of that section 116, and using the model to calculate State adjusted levels of performance under subsection (b)(3) of that section 116, for covered programs; and
(2)
establishing performance accountability measures, and applying reporting and evaluation requirements, and sanctions, under that section 116 for covered programs.
(b)
Inapplicability of transition provisions
Nothing in section 503 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3343
) shall be construed to permit any delay in, or any reduction in the scope of, the full implementation described in subsection (a).
3.
Information and technical assistance
(a)
Meetings
Not later than 1 month after the Secretary publishes a notice in the Federal Register that the full implementation described in section 2(a) is complete, the Secretary shall hold monthly meetings with State boards to provide information and technical assistance concerning the performance accountability measures established in accordance with section 2, and related requirements for States under section 116 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(b)
Continuation
The Secretary shall continue the monthly meetings with a State board until the Secretary determines that the State has received the information and technical assistance necessary to carry out the State's requirements under that section 116.
