1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restoring Law and Order Act of 2024
.
2.
Grant program
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
PP
3061.
Definitions
In this part:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means an agency of a State, unit of local government, or Indian Tribe that is authorized by law or by an agency of a State, unit of local government, or Indian Tribe to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of any violation of criminal law.
(2)
Rural county
The term
rural county
means a county that is not a part of a metropolitan statistical area (as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget).
3062.
Establishment
(a)
In general
The Attorney General shall award grants to eligible entities to—
(1)
hire and retain law enforcement officers, including by awarding bonuses to law enforcement officers;
(2)
combat interstate child trafficking;
(3)
prevent violent crime by prioritizing stringent sentences for repeat offenders;
(4)
use public safety tools such as bail and pretrial detention to prevent dangerous offenders from returning to communities;
(5)
acquire resources to better target drug and fentanyl crimes;
(6)
detain and deport illegal aliens who have committed criminal offenses in the United States;
(7)
eliminate investigatory backlogs and more quickly process criminal evidence; and
(8)
target, combat, and prosecute vehicle thefts, including carjackings.
(b)
Distribution of funds
Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this part, the Attorney General shall award not less than 25 percent to eligible entities located in a rural county.
3063.
Appropriations; funding
(a)
Rescission
Effective on the date of enactment of the
Restoring Law and Order Act of 2024
, any unobligated balances made available under clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 10301(1)(A) of the Act titled
An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14
are rescinded.
(b)
Appropriation
Of the unobligated balances rescinded under subsection (a)—
(1)
$10,000,000,000 is appropriated to the Attorney General for fiscal year 2025 to carry out this part, to remain available until September 30, 2029; and
(2)
the remainder shall be deposited in the Treasury.
(c)
Redirection of funds
Notwithstanding any other law, the Attorney General shall use amounts appropriated to the Attorney General for the purpose of carrying out a diversity, equity, or inclusion initiative established pursuant to Executive Order 14035 (
42 U.S.C. 2000e
note; relating to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the Federal workforce), including through the award of grants, to carry out this part.
.
3.
GAO study
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on the deficiencies—
(1)
of law enforcement agencies in the United States in processing rape kits; and
(2)
in the availability of rape kits.
