1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fortifying Refrigeration Infrastructure and Developing Global Exports Act of 2023
or the
FRIDGE Act of 2023
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
1 of the largest limiting factors to growing export markets for United States food and agriculture products is insufficient infrastructure capabilities;
(2)
current trade programs are focused on promoting specific commodities or products, all of which are reliant on a functioning supply chain;
(3)
there is a need for dedicated resources to focus on supply chain enhancement in developing countries to enable market expansion and diversification;
(4)
each year, billions of tons of fresh and frozen food products and millions of dollars’ worth of United States exports are lost due to poor cold chain systems in developing markets; and
(5)
strengthening global infrastructure plays an important role in promoting trade, reducing food loss and waste, and improving nutrition.
3.
Technical assistance to improve infrastructure in foreign markets for United States agricultural commodities
Section 203(c) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (
7 U.S.C. 5623(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Technical assistance to improve infrastructure in foreign markets for United States agricultural commodities
(A)
In general
As part of the program established under this subsection, the Secretary shall enter into contracts or other agreements with eligible trade organizations to provide needs assessment, training, and other technical assistance—
(i)
to enhance the capabilities of infrastructure in new and developing foreign markets, including infrastructure relating to cold chain capacity, port improvements, and other developments; and
(ii)
to ensure United States agricultural commodities are not damaged or lost due to deficiencies in the infrastructure described in clause (i).
(B)
Authorization of appropriations
(i)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this paragraph $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.
(ii)
Rule of construction
Except as provided in clause (iii), amounts authorized to be appropriated under this subparagraph may be used only to carry out subparagraph (A).
(iii)
Availability
Amounts authorized to be appropriated under this subparagraph that are not used to carry out subparagraph (A) may be used to carry out the program established under this subsection.
.
