1.
Review of sanctions with respect to Hong Kong
(a)
Determination with respect to imposition of sanctions
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a determination, including a detailed justification, of whether any person listed in subsection (b) meets the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to—
(1)
section 1263(b) of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (
22 U.S.C. 10102(b)
);
(2)
Executive Order 13818 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking the property of persons involved in serious human rights abuse or corruption);
(3)
section 7 of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 (
22 U.S.C. 5701
note;
Public Law 116–76
);
(4)
section 6 of the Hong Kong Autonomy Act (
22 U.S.C. 5701
note;
Public Law 116–149
); or
(5)
Executive Order 13936 (
22 U.S.C. 5701
note; relating to Hong Kong Normalization).
(b)
Persons listed
The persons listed in this subsection, which include officials of the Hong Kong Autonomous Region, are the following:
(1)
Paul Lam Ting-kwok, Secretary for Justice.
(2)
Sonny Au Chi-kwong, Secretary General of Committee for Safeguarding National Security of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(3)
Raymond Siu Chak-yee, Police Commissioner.
(4)
Esther Toh Lye-Ping, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(5)
Amanda Jane Woodcock, Deputy Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(6)
Victor So Wai-tak, Chief Magistrate.
(7)
Peter Law Tak-chuen, Principal Magistrate.
(8)
Stanley Chan Kwong-chi, District Judge.
(9)
Adriana Noelle Tse Ching, District Judge.
(10)
Kwok Wai-kin, District Judge.
(11)
Amy Chan Wai-Mun, Deputy District Judge.
(12)
Cheng Lim-chi, Magistrate, Court No. 1.
(13)
Johnny Chan Jong-herng, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(14)
Patrick Chan Siu-oi, Non-Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal.
(15)
Wilson Chan Ka-shun, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(16)
Andrew Chan Hing-wai, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(17)
Andrew Cheung Kui-nung, Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal.
(18)
Anderson Chow Ka-ming, Justice of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of the High Court.
(19)
Susana Maria D’Almada Remedios, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(20)
Joseph Paul Fok, Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal.
(21)
Veronica Heung Shuk-han, Magistrate.
(22)
Susan Kwan Shuk-hing, Justice of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of the High Court.
(23)
Johnson Lam Man-hon, Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal.
(24)
Alex Lee Wan-tang, Judge of the Court of First Instance of the High Court.
(25)
Anthea Pang Po-kam, Justices of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of the High Court.
(26)
Derek Pang Wai-cheong, Justice of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of the High Court.
(27)
Jeremy Poon Shiu-chor, Chief Judge of the High Court.
(28)
Roberto Alexandre Vieira Ribeiro, Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal.
(29)
Don So Man-lung, Principal Magistrate.
(30)
Frank Stock, Non-Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal.
(31)
Ada Yim Shun-yee, Principal Magistrate.
(32)
Wally Yeung Chun-kuen, former Vice-President of the Court of Appeal of the High Court; current Commissioner on Interception of Communications and Surveillance.
(33)
Maggie Yang Mei-kei, Director of Public Prosecutions.
(34)
Anthony Chau Tin-hang, Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions (III).
(35)
Jonathan Man Tak-ho, Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions (I).
(36)
Alice Chan Shook-man, Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions.
(37)
Derek Lai Kim-wah, Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions.
(38)
Laura Ng Shuk-kuen, Acting Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions (Special Duties).
(39)
William Siu Kai-yip, Acting Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions (Special Duties).
(40)
Andy Lo Tin-wai, Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions (Special Duties).
(41)
Ivan Cheung Cheuk-kan, Acting Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions (Special Duties).
(42)
Crystal Chan Wing-sum, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(43)
Cherry Chong Man-yan, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(44)
Wilson Lam Yi-yeung, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(45)
Edward Lau Wan-cheung, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(46)
Vincent Lee Ting-wai, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(47)
Karen Ng Ka-yuet, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(48)
Jennifer Tsui Sin-chi, Senior Public Prosecutor.
(49)
Memi Ng, private lawyer, fiat counsel appointed by the Hong Kong Government to serve as prosecutor.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
