115 HRES 71 EH: Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 41) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of a rule submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to “Disclosure of Payments by Resource Extraction Issuers”, and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 40) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-02-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 71
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
February 1, 2017
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 41) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of a rule submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to
Disclosure of Payments by Resource Extraction Issuers
, and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 40) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 41) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of a rule submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to
Disclosure of Payments by Resource Extraction Issuers
. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 40) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
