115 HRES 91 EH: Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 44) disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of the Interior relating to Bureau of Land Management regulations that establish the procedures used to prepare, revise, or amend land use plans pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 57) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to accountability and State plans under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 58) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to teacher preparation issues.
U.S. House of Representatives
2017-02-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 91
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
February 7, 2017
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 44) disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of the Interior relating to Bureau of Land Management regulations that establish the procedures used to prepare, revise, or amend land use plans pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 57) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to accountability and State plans under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 58) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to teacher preparation issues.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 44) disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of the Interior relating to Bureau of Land Management regulations that establish the procedures used to prepare, revise, or amend land use plans pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 3 of this resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce; and (2) one motion to recommit.
3.
The joint resolutions referred to in section 2 of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 57) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to accountability and State plans under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
(b)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 58) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Education relating to teacher preparation issues.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
