115 HRES 938 IH: Of inquiry directing the Attorney General to provide certain documents in the Attorney General’s possession to the House of Representatives relating to the ongoing congressional investigation related to certain prosecutorial and investigatory decisions made by the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation surrounding the 2016 election.
U.S. House of Representatives
2018-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 938
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 13, 2018
Mr. Meadows
(for himself,
Mr. Jordan
,
Mr. Gaetz
, and
Mr. Perry
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Attorney General to provide certain documents in the Attorney General’s
possession to the House of Representatives relating to the ongoing
congressional investigation related to certain prosecutorial and
investigatory decisions made by the Department of Justice and Federal
Bureau of Investigation surrounding the 2016 election.
That the Attorney General is directed to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, record, memo, correspondence, or other communication, or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the following:
(1)
All documents and communications with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) referring or relating to any Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) applications associated with Carter Page or individuals on President Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign or part of the Trump administration.
(2)
All documents and communications referring or relating to FISC hearings and deliberations, including any court transcripts, related to any FISA applications associated with Carter Page or the Trump campaign or Trump administration.
(3)
All documents and communications referring or relating to internal Department of Justice or Federal Bureau of Investigation management requests to review, scrub, report on, or analyze any reporting of FISA collection involving, or coverage mentioning, the Trump campaign or Trump administration.
(4)
All documents and communications referring or relating to defensive briefings provided by the Department of Justice or Federal Bureau of Investigation to the 2016 presidential campaigns of Hillary Clinton or President Trump.
