SECTION 1.

 .

(a) The Secretary of   is hereby designated to perform the following:

(1) The functions provided for in   2(a) and 2(b)(1) of the Act.

(2) The functions provided for in Section 2(b)(2) of the Act, exclusive of so much thereof as is assigned or reserved by the provisions of Section 2(1) of this order.

(3) In connection with functions under the Act assigned to the Secretary of  , the functions provided for in Sections 3(a), 4(b), and 5(a) of the Act.

(b) The Secretary of   shall from time to time furnish the President documents appropriate for the discharge by the President of his responsibilities under Section 2(d) of the Act. To the extent that they relate to functions performed by the Secretary of  , and   under the provisions of this order, such documents shall be prepared in collaboration with the latter Secretary.

(c) With due regard for other relevant considerations (including the interests of  , and  , and of any other executive agencies which may be concerned), the Secretary of   shall assume the leadership and provide the guidance for assuring that programs authorized under the Act best serve the foreign policy objectives of  .

 . 2.

 , and  .

(a) The Secretary of  , and   is hereby designated to perform the following:

(1) The functions provided for in Section 2(b) (2) of the Act to the extent that they are in respect of assistance to   refugee students in   who are in need of loans to attend institutions of higher education, exclusive, however, of the designations and determinations provided for in that section, which designations and determinations are reserved to the President.

(2) The functions provided for in   2(b)(3) to 2(b)(6), inclusive, of the Act.

(3) In connection with functions under the Act assigned to the Secretary of  , and  , the functions provided for in Sections 3(a), 4(b), and 5(a)(6) of the   and, except in respect of   personnel, the functions provided for in Section 5(a)(1) of the Act.

 . 3.

Redelegation.

(a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , and   may each redelegate any of his functions under this order to any of his subordinates.

(b) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , and   may each assign to the head of any executive department or to the head of any other agency of the executive branch of the Government, with the consent of the head of the department or agency concerned, the performance of any function of the Secretary under this order whenever he deems that such action would be advantageous to the Government.

 . 4.

 .

(a) In accordance with Section 3(b) of the Act, it is hereby determined that it is in furtherance of the purposes of the Act that the functions authorized under the Act may performed (by any department or agency of the   authorized to perform those functions) without regard to the following-specified provisions of law:

(1) The Act of  ,  , 48 Stat. 500, as amended (15 U.S.C. 616a) (shipment of certain exports in   vessels).

(2) Section 3648 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 529) (advance of funds).

(3) Section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (41 U.S.C. 5) (competitive bids).

(  of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 8) (opening of bids).

(5) Section 2 of the Act of March 3, 1933, c. 212, 47 Stat.   (41 U.S.C.  ) (Buy American Act).

(6) Section 3735 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 13) (contracts limited to  ).

(7) Sections 302-305 of   of   ( ,  , 63 Stat. 393 et seq.), as amended (41 U.S.C. 252-255) (competitive bids; negotiated contracts; advances).

(8) Section 901(a) of the Merchant Marine Act,   ( ,  , 49 Stat.  , as amended; 46 U.S.C. 1241(a)) (official travel overseas of   officers and employees, and transportation of. their personal effects, on ships registered under the laws of  ).

(b) It is directed (1) that all waivers of statutes and limitations of authority effected by the foregoing provisions of this section shall be utilized in a prudent manner and as sparingly as may be practical, and (2) that suitable steps shall be taken by the administrative agencies concerned to insure that result, including, as may be appropriate, the imposition of administrative limitations in lieu of waived statutory requirements and limitations of authority.

 . 5.

Definition.

As used in this order, the word "function" or "functions" includes any executive duty, obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, discretion, or activity.

 . 6.

Saving provisions.

Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with law or with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, orders, contracts, agreements and other actions issued, undertaken, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the date of this order, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.

 . 7.

Effective date.

The provisions of this order shall be effective as of  .
