SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , and  , who shall be Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Chairman of  ,   and  .

(c) The Chairman of the   shall invite the head of any other   or agency to attend any meeting of the   at which any matter within or affecting the area of responsibility of such department or agency is considered and to be a temporary member with respect to such matter.

 . 2. The   shall:

(a) Maintain a continuing study of the overall responsibilities of   with respect to the problems of the aging and make recommendations to the President concerning policies and programs required to meet Federal responsibilities, particularly on matters which do not fall within the jurisdiction of a single agency.

(b) Identify matters which require coordinated action by two or more Federal agencies and make appropriate arrangements for joint, or coordinated action, including, as appropriate, conferences, joint studies, and the development of recommendations to the President.

(c) Promote the sharing and dissemination of information on the needs of the aging and policies and programs relating to the aging among   departments and agencies and between them and  , local, or private agencies and organizations having functions or interests in fields relating to the problems of the aging.

(d) Prepare an   consolidated report to the President concerning the activities of the   and the several   departments and agencies having programs relating to the aging.

 . 3. (a) Consonant with law, each department or agency represented on the   shall, as may be necessary for the effectuation of the purpose of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with Section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(b) Other Federal departments and agencies are also authorized and directed, to the extent not inconsistent with law, to cooperate with the   and to furnish it such information and assistance as it may find necessary in the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  , established by a letter from the President to the Secretary of  , and  , dated  , is hereby abolished and that letter is hereby superseded.
