119 SRES 253 ATS: Congratulating His Holiness Pope Leo XIV on his election to the papacy.
U.S. Senate
2025-05-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 253
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 22, 2025
Mr. Schmitt
(for himself,
Mr. Durbin
,
Ms. Collins
,
Mr. Kaine
,
Mr. Luján
,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Padilla
,
Mr. Ricketts
,
Mr. Rounds
,
Mr. Sullivan
,
Mr. Welch
,
Ms. Cortez Masto
,
Mr. Hoeven
, and
Mr. Paul
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating His Holiness Pope Leo XIV on his election to the papacy.
Whereas the Senate recognizes the historic and spiritual significance of the election of His Holiness Pope Leo XIV as the Bishop of Rome and leader of the worldwide Catholic Church;
Whereas the Senate recognizes the historic and spiritual significance of the first Pope from the United States ever elected to the papacy;
Whereas the Pope serves as a global symbol of peace, compassion, humility, and the pursuit of justice; and
Whereas the election of the new Pope marks a moment of profound importance for over 1,000,000,000 Catholics worldwide, including millions in the United States, and for people of all faiths who are inspired by his message and ministry: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
acknowledges the commitment of His Holiness Pope Leo XIV to promoting human dignity, defending the poor and marginalized, advancing interfaith dialogue, and fostering reconciliation and peace throughout the world;
(2)
expresses the hope that the strong relationship between the United States and The Holy See will continue to deepen, reflecting shared values of human rights, religious freedom, and global cooperation;
(3)
recognizes the significance of the Catholic Church in promoting justice, humanitarian assistance, and moral leadership in the world; and
(4)
extends its best wishes for a successful and inspiring pontificate.
