119 SRES 398 IS: Condemning the treatment of Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu by the Government of Azerbaijan and urging his immediate release.
U.S. Senate
2025-09-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 398
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 17 (legislative day, September 16), 2025
Mr. Tillis
(for himself,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr. Cassidy
,
Mr. Fetterman
, and
Mr. Kaine
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Condemning the treatment of Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu by the Government of Azerbaijan and urging his immediate release.
Whereas recent diplomatic progress in peace accords between Armenia and Azerbaijan has raised hopes for a more stable and prosperous future in the South Caucasus;
Whereas that progress presents an important opportunity for Azerbaijan to strengthen its global partnerships and demonstrate its commitment to international norms;
Whereas that progress cannot be fully realized while wrongful detentions and human rights violations persist in Azerbaijan;
Whereas Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu, a respected academic and economist, and his wife, Irada Bayramova, were arrested by Azerbaijani authorities on July 23, 2023, and severely beaten while in police custody;
Whereas Dr. Ibadoghlu was dubiously accused of multiple criminal acts without evidence, imprisoned in extremely poor conditions, and denied adequate medical care, resulting in significant health deterioration;
Whereas, although transferred to house arrest on April 22, 2024, Dr. Ibadoghlu has been denied a trial date, left in legal limbo, and subjected to repeated violations of due process and access to counsel;
Whereas the Department of State, the United States Embassy in Baku, leading academic institutions, Members of Congress, and respected international organizations have all expressed deep concern and called for the immediate release of Dr. Ibadoghlu;
Whereas the Government of Azerbaijan’s continued practice of wrongful detention, including cases such as those of Bakhtiyar Hajiyev, Avaz Zeynalli, Ulviyya Guliyeva, Farid Mehralizada, and Elchin Sadigov, undermines the credibility of its commitments to peace and partnership with the community of democracies; and
Whereas Azerbaijan has sought to highlight its international engagement and prestige through events such as the Formula 1 Grand Prix and other global forums, but those efforts are fundamentally at odds with the continued detention of political prisoners and the denial of basic humanitarian standards: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commends the progress made in peace negotiations between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and expresses hope that such progress will lead to lasting peace and greater international engagement;
(2)
condemns—
(A)
the treatment of Dr. Ibadoghlu and other political prisoners by the Government of Azerbaijan;
(B)
the Government of Azerbaijan's practice of wrongful detention; and
(C)
the suppression of academic freedom and peaceful expression;
(3)
calls for the immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners in Azerbaijan, including Dr. Ibadoghlu, and specifically urges his release in advance of Azerbaijan’s hosting of international events such as the Formula 1 Grand Prix, further underscoring that until such release occurs, the United States cannot treat those events as positive opportunities for partnership and will instead continue to highlight in such forums the persistence of wrongful detentions and human rights concerns; and
(4)
urges all responsible officials and agencies of the United States Government, including the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, and other relevant entities, to make Dr. Ibadoghlu’s well-being and release a priority in all engagements with the Government of Azerbaijan, reinforcing that genuine peace must be accompanied by respect for human rights and academic freedom.
