119 SRES 194 IS: Expressing support for the designation of the month of April 2025 as “Parkinson’s Awareness Month”.
U.S. Senate
2025-04-30
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 194
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 30, 2025
Mr. Scott of Florida
(for himself,
Mr. Booker
, and
Mr. Risch
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of the month of April 2025 as “Parkinson’s Awareness Month”.
Whereas Parkinson’s disease—
(1)
affects over 1,000,000 individuals in the United States with nearly 90,000 individuals diagnosed each year;
(2)
is the fastest-growing and second most common neurodegenerative disease in the world;
(3)
is believed to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors, but the exact cause in most individuals is still unknown; and
(4)
is the 15th leading cause of death in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
Whereas, by the year 2037, it is estimated that the number of individuals in the United States with Parkinson’s disease will nearly double, and Parkinson's disease will cost the United States at least $80,000,000,000 annually;
Whereas the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease can include dementia and cognitive impairment, tremors, slowness of movement and rigidity, gait and balance difficulties, speech and swallowing difficulties, depression, and a variety of other symptoms;
Whereas there are millions of family caregivers, friends, and loved ones whose lives are greatly affected by Parkinson’s disease; and
Whereas more research, education, and community support services are needed—
(1)
to find better treatments and a cure for Parkinson’s disease; and
(2)
to maintain the dignity of individuals living with Parkinson's disease: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
expresses support for the designation of the month of April 2025 as
Parkinson’s Awareness Month
;
(2)
supports the goals and ideals of Parkinson’s Awareness Month;
(3)
continues to support research to find better treatments and a cure for Parkinson’s disease;
(4)
recognizes the individuals living with Parkinson’s disease who participate in vital clinical trials to advance the knowledge of the disease; and
(5)
commends the dedication of organizations, volunteers, researchers, and millions of individuals across the United States working to improve the quality of life of people living with Parkinson’s disease and their families.
