SECTION 1. The establishment, provided by Section 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of   (42 FR 56101), of   in   of the President shall be effective, as authorized by Section 7 of that Plan, on  .

 . 2. The Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the Director, shall report to the President. As the chief administrative officer of  , the Director shall be responsible for ensuring that   provides units within   of the President common administrative support and services.

 . 3. (a)   shall provide common administrative support and services to all units within   of the President, except for such services provided primarily in direct support of the President.   shall, upon request, assist   in performing its role of providing those administrative services which are primarily in direct support of the President.

(b) The common administrative support and services provided by   shall encompass all types of administrative support and services that may be used by, or useful to, units within   of the President. Such services and support shall include, but not be limited to, providing support services in the following administrative areas:

(1) personnel management services, including equal employment opportunity programs;

(2) financial management services;

(3) data processing, including support and services;

(4) library, records, and information services;

(5) office services and operations, including: mail, messenger, printing and duplication, graphics, word processing, procurement, and supply services; and

(6) any other administrative support or service which will achieve financial savings and increase efficiency through centralization of the supporting service.

(c) Administrative support and services shall be provided to all units within   of the President in a manner consistent with available funds and other resources, or in accord with Section 7 of the Act of   (41 Stat. 613), as amended (31 U.S.C. 686, referred to as the Economy Act).

 . 4. (a) Subject to such direction or approval that the President may provide or require, the Director shall:

(1) organize  ;

(2) employ personnel;

(3) contract for supplies or services; and

(4) do all other things that the President, as head of  , might do.

(b) The Director shall not be accountable for the program and management responsibilities of units within   of the President; the head of each unit shall remain responsible for those functions.

 . 5. The primary responsibility for performing all administrative support and service functions of units within   of the President shall be transferred and reassigned to  ; except to the extent those functions are vested by law in the head of such a unit, other than the President; and except to the extent those functions are performed by   primarily in direct support of the President.

 . 6. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred 'or reassigned by this   from units within   of the President to  , shall be transferred to  .

 . 7. (a) The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

(b) Such transfers shall become effective on  , or at such earlier time or times as the Director of   determines, after consultation with the Director of   and other appropriate units within   of the President.
