1-1. Establishment of Federal Regional Councils.

1-101. There is hereby continued a   for each of the ten standard Federal regions (  No. A-105).

1-102. Each   shall be composed of a representative designated by the head of each of the following agencies:

(a)  .

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d)  .

(e)  , and  .

(f)  .

(g)  .

(h)  .

(i)  .

(j)  .

(k)  .

(1)  .

(m) ACTION.

(n)  .

(o)  .

(p)  .

(q)  .

1-103. The President shall designate one member of each   to be Chairman. The Chairman may convene   to carry out specific initiatives of the  .

1-104. Each member of each   shall be a principal official in the region at the Administrator, Director,  , or equivalent level. For   (established pursuant to Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.)) the   cochairman shall serve as the   member. Representatives of   shall participate in the deliberations of each  .

1-105. Each member of each   shall designate an alternate to serve whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  . The alternate shall be a principal official in the Region at the deputy or equivalent level, or the head of an operating unit of the agency.

1-106. When a Chairman determines that matters which significantly affect the interests of agencies which are not represented on the   are to be considered by that  , the Chairman shall request the regional director or other appropriate representative of the affected agency to participate in the deliberations of the  .

1-2.  .

1-201.  , as the major interagency mechanism in the field, shall ensure that Federal programs are implemented in a manner which is consistent with overall Government policy, and shall be responsive to  , tribal, regional, and local government concerns.

1-202. Each   shall develop a mechanism for sharing information about major agency decisions or actions among agencies in the field, and shall ensure a timely and consistent Federal response to  , tribal, regional, and local concerns or inquiries about such actions.

1-203. Each   shall establish practical and appropriate liaison functions with  , tribal, regional, and local officials, and shall implement regular procedures to inform elected officials about   policies and initiatives.

1-204. Each   shall attempt to identify significant problems with Federal policies and actions and, if such problems cannot be resolved in the Region, refer such problems to the appropriate agencies and  .

1-3. General Provisions.

1-301.  , in conjunction with   shall, consistent with the objectives and priorities established by the President, establish policy with respect to   matters, provide guidance to the  , respond to their initiatives and seek to resolve policy issues referred to it by the Councils.   shall also provide policy guidance to   on intergovernmental matters pertaining to activities undertaken by  .

1-302.   shall provide direction for and oversight of the implementation by   management improvement actions and of   aid reforms.

1-303. Each   represented on a   shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, appropriate staff for common or joint interagency task forces as requested by   Chairman or by  .

1-304. Each   member shall be provided administrative support by the member's agency.

1-305. Administrative support required by the   shall be-provided by the Chairman's agency.

1-306.   are encouraged to work with  ,  ,  ,  , and other similar organizations in the Region.

1-307. Executive  .  , as amended, is revoked.

 

 ,  .

[Filed with  , 4:26 p.m.,  ]
