1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
KariГўВҖВҷs Law Act of 2017
.
2.
Default configuration of multi-line telephone systems for direct dialing of 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1
(a)
In general
Title VII of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 601
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
721.
Default configuration of multi-line telephone systems for direct dialing of 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1
(a)
Definitions
In this sectionГўВҖВ”
(1)
the term
multi-line telephone system
has the meaning given the term in section 6502 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1471
); and
(2)
the term
public safety answering point
has the meaning given the term in section 222(h).
(b)
Multi-Line telephone system functionality
A person engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing, selling, or leasing multi-line telephone systems may not manufacture or import for use in the United States or sell or lease or offer to sell or lease in the United States a multi-line telephone system unless the technology of the system has the capabilities described in subsections (c) and (e).
(c)
Multi-Line telephone system installation
A person engaged in the business of installing multi-line telephone systems serving locations in the United States may not install such a system in the United States unless, upon installation, the system allows a call that is initiated when a user dials 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1 from any station equipped with dialing facilities to be transmitted to the appropriate public safety answering pointГўВҖВ”
(1)
without requiring the user to dial any additional digit, code, prefix, or post-fix, including any trunk-access code (such as the digit 9); and
(2)
regardless of whether the user is required to dial a digit, code, prefix, or post-fix described in paragraph (1) for other calls.
(d)
Other 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1 emergency dialing patterns
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the configuration of a multi-line telephone system so that other 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1 emergency dialing patterns will also initiate a call to a public safety answering point, provided that the dialing pattern 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1 remains available to users.
(e)
On-Site notification
(1)
In general
A person engaged in the business of installing multi-line telephone systems serving locations in the United States, in installing a system described in paragraph (2) in the United States, shall configure the system so that when a person at the facility where the system is installed initiates a call to 9ГўВҖВ“1ГўВҖВ“1 using the system, the system provides a notification toГўВҖВ”
(A)
a central location at the facility; or
(B)
a person or organization with responsibility for safety or security for the location as designated by the manager or operator of the system.
(2)
Application
A system described in this paragraph is a multi-line telephone system that is able to be configured to provide the notification described in paragraph (1) without any improvement to the system.
(f)
Regulations
(1)
Authority
The Commission may prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
(2)
Technologically neutral
Regulations prescribed under paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable, promote the purposes of this section in a technologically neutral manner.
(g)
Enforcement
This section shall be enforced under title V, except that section 501 applies only to the extent that the section provides for the imposition of a fine.
(h)
Effect on state law
Nothing in this section or in regulations prescribed under this section shall be construed to prevent any State from enforcing any State law that is not inconsistent with this section.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a multi-line telephone system that is manufactured, imported, offered for first sale or lease, first sold or leased, or installed after the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
