1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Solar Consumer Choice Act of 2017
.
2.
Community solar
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Community solar
The term
community solar
means a solar power plant, through which the benefits of the electricity produced is shared by two or more electricity customers.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(3)
Subscriber
The term
subscriber
means an electricity customer who receives direct economic benefits associated with the proportional output of the community solar facility of the customer.
(b)
Establishment of Community Solar Consumer Choice Program
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a program to expand community solar options to—
(A)
individuals, particularly individuals that do not have regular access to onsite solar, including low- and moderate-income individuals;
(B)
businesses;
(C)
nonprofit organizations; and
(D)
States and local and tribal governments.
(2)
Alignment with existing Federal programs
The Secretary shall align the program under paragraph (1) with existing Federal programs that serve low-income communities.
(3)
Assistance to State and local governments
In carrying out the program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
provide technical assistance to States and local and tribal governments for projects to increase community solar;
(B)
assist States and local and tribal governments in the development of new and innovative financial and business models that leverage competition in the marketplace in order to serve community solar subscribers; and
(C)
use National Laboratories (as defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15801
)) to collect and disseminate data that assists private entities in the financing of, subscription to, and operation of community solar projects.
(c)
Federal Government participation in community solar
The Federal Government is encouraged to participate in community solar projects, including by subscribing to community solar facilities.
