1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Farmers of Tomorrow Act
.
2.
Modification of the 3-year experience requirement for purposes of eligibility for farm ownership
loans
(a)
In general
Section 302(b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (
7 U.S.C. 1922(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
(3)
and inserting
(5)
; and
(B)
by inserting
(not exceeding 2 years)
after
period of time
; and
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively, and inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
(2)
Other acceptable experience
In determining whether a farmer or rancher has other acceptable experience under paragraph (1), the Secretary may count any of the following:
(A)
at least 16 hours of post-secondary education in a field related to agriculture;
(B)
successful completion of a farm management curriculum offered by the Cooperative Extension Service, a community college, an adult vocational agriculture program, a non-profit organization, or a land grant university;
(C)
at least 1 year of direct substantive management experience in a business;
(D)
an honorable discharge from the armed forces of the United States;
(E)
successful repayment of a youth loan made under section 311(b);
(F)
at least 1 year as hired farm labor with substantial management responsibilities;
(G)
successful completion of a farm mentorship, apprenticeship, or internship program with an emphasis on management requirements and day-to-day farm management decisions;
(H)
an established relationship with an individual participating as a counselor in a Service Corps of Retired Executives program authorized under section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B)
), or with a local farm or ranch operator or organization, approved by the Secretary, that is committed to mentoring the farmer or rancher; and
(I)
successful completion of a military leadership course.
(3)
Deeming rule
For purposes of paragraph (1), a farmer or rancher is deemed to have participated in the business operations of a farm or ranch for not less than 3 years or have other acceptable experience for a period of time, as determined by the Secretary, if the farmer or rancher meets the requirements of subparagraphs (F), (H), and (I) of paragraph (2).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 310D(a)(2) of such Act (
7 U.S.C. 1934(a)(2)
) is amended by striking
paragraphs (2) through (4) of section 302
and inserting
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of section 302(a)(1)
.
