1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veteran Entrepreneurs Act of 2018
.
2.
Veterans
franchise fee credit
(a)
In
general
Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
45T.
Veterans
franchise fee credit
(a)
Veterans
franchise fee credit
(1)
In
general
For purposes of section 38, the veterans franchise fee credit determined under this section for the taxable year is an amount equal to 25 percent of the qualified franchise fees paid or incurred by a veteran during the taxable year.
(2)
Limitation
The amount allowed as a credit under paragraph (1) with respect to the purchase of any franchise shall not exceed $100,000.
(b)
Reduction where
franchise not 100 percent veteran-Owned
In the case of any franchise in which veterans do not own 100 percent of the stock or of the capital or profits interests of the franchise, the credit under subsection (a) shall be the credit amount determined under such subsection, multiplied by the same ratio as—
(1)
the stock or capital or profits interests of the franchise held by veterans, bears
(2)
to the total stock or capital or profits interests of the franchisee.
For
purposes of this subsection, the spouse of a veteran shall be
treated as a
veteran.
(c)
Qualified
franchise fee
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified franchise fee
means any initial fee required by the franchisor when entering into a franchise agreement with a veteran as the franchisee.
(d)
Other
definitions
For purposes of this section, the terms
franchise
,
franchisee
,
franchisor
, and
initial fee
have the meanings given such terms in part 436 of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2018).
(e)
Veteran
The term
veteran
has the meaning given such term by section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
(f)
Transfer of credit
(1)
In general
With respect to the credit allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year, in the case of a veteran who—
(A)
has received a reduction in the amount of the qualified franchise fee otherwise required by the franchisor, and
(B)
elects application of this subsection for such taxable year with respect to any portion of such credit which is commensurate with the amount of the reduction described in subparagraph (A),
the franchisor, and not the veteran, shall be treated as the taxpayer for purposes of this title
with respect to such portion of the credit.
(2)
Prohibition
A franchisor may not require a veteran to elect application of this subsection as a condition for entering into a franchise agreement.
(g)
Election
This section shall not apply to a taxpayer for any taxable year if such taxpayer elects to have this section not apply for such taxable year.
.
(b)
Credit To be
part of general business credit
Section 38(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
plus
at the end of paragraph (36), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (37) and inserting
, plus
, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(38)
the veterans franchise fee credit determined under section 45T(a).
.
(c)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 45T. Veterans franchise fee
credit.
.
(d)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 2018.
3.
Publication of
information by Department of Veterans Affairs and Small Business
Administration
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publicize in mailings and brochures sent to veterans service organizations and veteran advocacy groups information regarding discounted franchise fees under
section 45T
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and other information about the program established under amendments made by this Act.
