1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stopping Threats on Pedestrians Act of 2017
or the
STOP Act of 2017
.
2.
Traffic barrier installation grant program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(2)
Traffic barrier installation project
The term
traffic barrier installation project
means a project to install traffic barriers, which may include bollards, jersey barriers, planters, or other barriers approved by the Secretary, on a sidewalk, bicycle path, or pedestrian plaza or walkway adjacent to a roadway that are designed to slow or stop a motor vehicle.
(b)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish and carry out a competitive grant program to provide assistance to eligible entities for traffic barrier installation projects designed to prevent pedestrian injuries and acts of terrorism in areas used by large numbers of pedestrians.
(c)
Eligible entities
An entity eligible to receive a grant under this section is—
(1)
a State;
(2)
a metropolitan planning organization; or
(3)
a unit of local government.
(d)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, which shall include, at a minimum—
(1)
a description of the proposed traffic barrier installation project to be carried out;
(2)
a description of the pedestrian or bicyclist injury or terrorism risks with respect to the proposed installation area; and
(3)
an analysis of how the proposed traffic barrier installation project will mitigate those risks.
(e)
Use of funds
A recipient of a grant under this section—
(1)
shall be the direct recipient of the grant; and
(2)
may only use the grant funds for a traffic barrier installation project.
(f)
Federal share
The Federal share of the costs of a traffic barrier installation project carried out with a grant under this section may be up to 100 percent.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
