1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Diversifying Emergency Benchmarks for the Recovery of Individuals after Storms Act
or the
DEBRIS Act
.
2.
Federal assistance to individuals and households
(a)
Amendment
Section 408(c)(2)(A) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174(c)(2)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (i) the following:
(ii)
the removal of debris from owner-occupied private residences and property; and
.
(b)
Applicability
(1)
Covered disaster defined
In this subsection, the term
covered disaster
means a major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
) on or after May 1, 2018.
(2)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any covered disaster.
(3)
Resubmission of requests for assistance
If a request for assistance, with respect to a covered disaster, was made under section 408 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174
), as in effect before the date of enactment of this Act, for the removal of debris from an owner-occupied private residence or property and the request for such assistance was denied before the date of enactment of this Act, the request for assistance under such section 408, as amended by this Act, may be resubmitted.
3.
Factors to be considered in major disaster declarations
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall, by rulemaking, amend the factors considered when evaluating a Governor's request for a major disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.) to include the estimated cost of removing fallen debris from owner-occupied private residences and property.
