Executive Order—Approving Lands for Snake or Piute  
 
 ,  ,  .

Sir: I have, the honor to inclose herewith a report, dated the 22d ultimo (and accompanying map), received from  ,  , superintendent   affairs for  , reciting the action taken by him relative to the establishment of a proposed reservation on the headwaters of Malheur River, in that  , for the Snake or Piute  , under instructions contained in letter to him from this office, dated  .

Superintendent Odeneal defines the boundaries of the tract of country selected by him for the proposed reservation as follows:

“ Beginning at the mouth of the North Fork of the Malheur River; thence up said  , including the waters thereof, to  ; thence in a northwesterly direction to  ; thence to  , on the Canyon City and Camp Harney road; thence down Silvies River to Malheur Lake; thence east to the South Fork of the Malheur River; thence down said  , including the waters thereof, to the place of beginning (to be known as  ), including all lands within said boundaries, excepting so much thereof as may have been granted for military or wagon-road purposes.”

I respectfully recommend that the tract of country embraced within the foregoing limits be set apart and reserved as an   reservation, and that the President lie requested to issue an   order accordingly.

It is also requested that the papers inclosed be returned to this office. Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

 , Commissioner.

The Hon. Secretary of the  .

Department of the Interior,

 ,  ,  .

Sir: I have the honor to transmit herewith a communication, dated the 4th instant, from  , inclosing a report (with map) of  , superintendent of   affairs for  , and recommending that a reservation on the headwaters of the Malheur River, in    , the boundaries of which are set forth in the Commissioner’s letter, be established for the Snake or Piute  .

The recommendation of the Commissioner meets with the approval of this Department, and I respectfully request that the President direct the same to be carried into effect.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

 , Acting Secretary.

To the President.

Executive  ,  .

Let the lands which are fully described in the accompanying letter of   be set apart as a reservation for the Snake or Piute  , as recommended in the letter of, the Secretary of  .

 .

Source:  ,  ,  ,   GPO,  ,    888
