Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to provide a coordinated process for developing a national space policy and strategy and for monitoring its implementation, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment and Composition of  .

(a) There is established   ("the  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(1) The Vice President, who shall be Chairman of the  ;

(2) The Secretary of  ;

(3) The Secretary of the  ;

(4) The Secretary of  ;

(5) The Secretary of  ;

(6) The Secretary of  ;

(7) The Director of  ;

(8) The Chief of Staff to the President;

(9) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(10) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(11) The Director of  ; and

(12) The Administrator of  .

(c) The Chairman shall, from time to time, invite the following to participate in meetings of  (1) The Chairman of  ; and

(2) The heads of other executive departments and agencies and other senior officials in   of the President.

 . 2. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall advise and assist the President on national space policy and strategy, and perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe.

(b) In addition, the   is directed to:

(1) review   space policy, including long-range goals, and develop a strategy for national space activities;

(2) develop recommendations for the President on space policy and space- related issues;

(3) monitor and coordinate implementation of the objectives of the President's national space policy by executive departments and agencies; and

(4) foster close coordination, cooperation, and technology and information exchange among the civil, national security, and commercial space sectors, and facilitate resolution of differences concerning major space and space-related policy issues.

(c) The creation and operation of the   shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibilities in the departments and agencies.

 . 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. (a) The Chairman shall serve as the President's principal advisor on national space policy and strategy.

(b) The Chairman shall, in consultation with the members of the  , establish procedures for the   and establish the agenda for   activities.

(c) The Chairman shall report to the President on the activities and recommendations of the  . The Chairman shall advise the   as appropriate regarding the President's directions with respect to the  's activities and national space policy generally.

(d) The Chairman shall authorize the establishment of such committees of the   uncil, including an executive committee, and of such working groups, composed o f senior designees of the   members and of other officials invited to par ticipate in   meetings, as he deems necessary or appropriate for the effi cient conduct of   functions.

 . 4.  . (a) The   will establish a process for developing and monitoring the implementation of national space policy and strategy.

(b) To implement this process, each agency represented on the   shall provide such information regarding its current and planned space activities as the Chairman shall request.

(c) The head of each executive department and agency shall ensure that its space-related activities conform to national space policy and strategy.

 . 5. Establishment of Vice President's  . (a) The Vice President shall establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 2), governing Presidential advisory committees, an advisory committee of private citizens to advise the Vice President on the space policy of   ("the Board").

(b) The Board shall be composed and function as follows:

(1) The Board shall be composed of members appointed by the Vice President.

(2) The Vice President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Board. The Executive Secretary of   shall serve as the Secretary to the  .

(3) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Board. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law, for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available for that purpose.

(4) Necessary expenses of the   shall be paid from funds available for the expenses of  .

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   established by this order, shall be performed on a reimbursable basis by the Director of   in   of the President, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 6.  . Section 1(c) of Executive Order No.   is amended by deleting "Economic Policy Council" and inserting in lieu thereof " ." Sec. 7. Administrative Provisions. (a)   in   of the President shall provide the   with such administrative support on a reimbursable basis as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the  .

(b) The President shall appoint an   Secretary who shall appoint such staff as may be necessary to assist in the performance of the  's functions.

(c) All Federal departments, agencies, and interagency councils and committees having an impact on space policy shall extend, as appropriate, such cooperation and assistance to the   as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this order.

(d) The head of each agency serving on the   or represented on any working group or committee of the   shall provide such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law and subject to the availability of appropriations, to enable the agency head or its representative to carry out his responsibilities.

 . 8. Report. The   shall submit an   report setting forth its assessment of and recommendations for the space policy and strategy of  .

 

 ,

 .
