Executive Order  —Policy Implementation With Respect to Nationals of the People's Republic of China
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , the Attorney General and the Secretary of   are hereby ordered to exercise their authority, including that under the Immigration and Nationality Act -1557), as follows:

10Section 1. The Attorney General is directed to take any steps necessary to defer until  , the enforced departure of all nationals of   ( ) and their dependents who were in   on or after  , up to and including the date of this order (hereinafter "such   nationals").

 . 2. The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are directed to take all steps necessary with respect to such   nationals (a) to waive through  , the requirement of a valid passport and (b) to process and provide necessary documents, both within   and at   consulates overseas, to facilitate travel across the borders of other nations and reentry into   in the same status such   nationals had upon departure.

 . 3. The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are directed to provide the following protections:

(a) irrevocable waiver of the   home country residence requirement that may be exercised until  , for such   nationals;

(b) maintenance of lawful status for purposes of adjustment of status or change of nonimmigrant status for such   nationals who were in lawful status at any time on or after  , up to and including the date of this order;

(c) authorization for employment of such   nationals through  ; and

(d) notice of expiration of nonimmigrant status (if applicable) rather than the institution of deportation proceedings, and explanation of options available for such   nationals eligible for deferral of enforced departure whose nonimmigrant status has expired.

 . 4. The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are directed to provide for enhanced consideration under the immigration laws for individuals from any country who express a fear of persecution upon return to their country related to that country's policy of forced abortion or coerced sterilization, as implemented by the Attorney General's regulation effective  .

 . 5. The Attorney General is directed to ensure that   finalizes and makes public its position on the issue of training for individuals in F-1 visa status and on the issue of reinstatement into lawful nonimmigrant status of such   nationals who have withdrawn their applications for asylum.

 . 6.   and   are directed to consider other steps to assist such   nationals in their efforts to utilize the protections that I have extended pursuant to this order.

 . 7. This order shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .
