Executive Order  —Debarment and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to protect the interest of  , to deal only with responsible persons, and to insure proper management and integrity in Federal activities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "Procurement activities" refer to all acquisition programs and activities of  , as defined in  .

(b) "Nonprocurment activities" refers to all programs and activities involving Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits, as covered by Executive Order No.   and   guidelines implementing that order.

(c) "Agency" refers to executive departments and agencies.

 . 2.

Governmentwide Effect.

(a) To the extent permitted by law and upon resolution of differences and promulgation of final regulations pursuant to section 3 of this order, the debarment, suspension, or other exclusion of a participant in a procurement activity under  , or in a nonprocurement activity under regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No.  , shall have governmentwide effect. No agency shall allow a party to participate in any procurement or nonprocurement activity if any agency has debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded (to the extent specified in the exclusion agreement) that party from participation in a procurement or nonprocurement activity.

(b) An agency may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded party to participate in procurement activities of that agency to the extent exceptions are authorized under  , or to participate in nonprocurement activities of that agency to the extent exceptions are authorized under regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No.  .

 . 3.

Implementation.

(a)   may assist Federal agencies in resolving differences between the provisions contained in   and in regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No.  .   may determine the date of resolution of differences and then shall notify affected agencies of that date.

(b) To implement this order, proposed regulations amending   and the agency regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No.   shall be published simultaneously within   of the resolution of differences.

(c) Final regulations shall be published simultaneously within   of the publication of the proposed regulations, to be effective   thereafter.

 

 ,

 .
