Executive Order    and Terrorism
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish a   and Terrorism, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

(a) There is established   and Terrorism to review and evaluate policy options in connection with aviation security, with particular reference to the destruction on  , of   Flight 103. The   shall consist of seven members appointed by the President. Two members shall be Senators, and two shall be Members of  ; they shall represent both parties equally. The President shall consult with the Majority and   Leaders of the   and the Speaker and Minority Leader of   in making appointments from the   and  , respectively.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) The   shall conduct a comprehensive study and appraisal of practices and policy options with respect to preventing terrorist acts involving aviation. In conducting this effort, the   shall evaluate the adequacy of existing procedures for aviation security, compliance therewith, and enforcement thereof. The   also shall review options for handling terrorist threats, including prior notification to the public. Further, the   shall investigate practices, policies, and laws with respect to the treatment of families of victims of terrorist acts.

(b) Within   of this order, the   shall submit a report to the President, which shall be classified if necessary, containing findings and recommendations. If the  's report is classified, an unclassified version shall be prepared for public distribution.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) To the extent permitted by law and fully protecting intelligence sources and methods and the ongoing investigations into the destruction of   Flight 103 of  , the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   appointed from among private citizens may receive compensation for their work on the   at the   rate specified for GS-18 of the General Schedule. While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707).

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall, among other Administrative functions, provide the   with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions, and the Secretary of   shall perform the functions of the President under  , as amended except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(d) The   shall adhere to the requirements set forth in  , as amended. All executive branch officials assigned duties by   shall comply with its requirements with respect to this  .

 . 4.

General Provision.

The   shall terminate   after submitting its report to the President.

 

 ,

 .
