Executive Order  —Providing for Federal Pay Adminstration
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constutition and the laws of  , including     (hereinafter "FEPCA"), as incorporated in section 529 of Public Law 101-509, and sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Annual Adjustments to Pay Schedules.

The following agencies are designated under section 5303(g) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by  , to prescribe conversion rules for the initial adjustment of rates of pay to be applied during each   adjustment of pay schedules under section 5303 of title 5, United Stated Code:

(a)  , for the General  ;

(b)  , for  ; and

(c)  , for  .

 . 2.

 -based  .

(a) The Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Director of  , and the Director of   are hereby designated under section 5304(d)(1) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by  , to serve jointly as the President's agent under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and shall be known in this capacity as the President's Pay Agent.

(b) The head of each executive agency employing personnel under a statutory pay system, as defined in section 5303(1) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by  , shall provide such information and assistance as may be requested by the President's Pay Agent in carrying out the provisions of section 5304 of title 5, United States Code.

 . 3. Special Pay Authority. (a)   is hereby authorized and designated, pursuant to section 5305(a) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by section 101 of FEPCA, to exercise the authorities of the President under section 5305 of title 5, United States Code, concerning higher rates of pay.

(b) Before exercising the delegated authorities under subsection (a) regarding employees in positions other than those covered by  ,   shall consult with the head of the agency employing such employees.

 . 4.

Previous Order Revoked.

Executive Order No.  , as amended, is revoked.

 . 5.

Advance Payments for New Appointees.

Section 2(b) of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended to read as follows:

"(b)   is hereby designated and empowered to perform the functions conferred upon the President by the provisions of section 5527 of title 5, United States Code, with respect to allotments and assignments authorized by section 5525 of title 5, United States Code, and advance payments to new appointees authorized by section 5524a of title 5, United States Code, as added by section 107(a) of   of  , as incorporated in section 529 of Public Law 101-509."

 . 6.

Extension of Cash Awards, Recruitment and Relocation Bonuses, and  .

  is hereby designated and empowered to exercise the authority of the President under:

(a) section 4505a(d) of title 5, United States Code, as added by section 207(a) of  , concerning the application of performance-based cash awards to noncovered categories of employees;

(b) section 5753(e) of title 5, United States Code, as added by section 208 of FEPCA, concerning the application of recruitment and relocation bonuses to noncovered categories of employees; and

(c) section 5754(e) of title 5, United States Code, as added by section 208 of FEPCA, concerning the application of retention allowances to noncovered categories of employees.

 . 7.

Staffing Differentials.

  is hereby designated and empowered to exercise the authority of the President under section 209 of FEPCA to establish staffing differentials.

 . 8.

Executive Assignment System.

(a) Civil Service Rule 9 (5   Part 9), as established by Executive Order No.  , as amended, is revoked.

(b)   shall take such actions as the   may determine to be necessary to provide for the orderly termination of the executive  .

 . 9.

 .

(a) Except as otherwise provided by  , the provisons of subchapter I of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, as amended by section 101 of FEPCA, and the provisions of sections 1 through 4 of this order shall take effect on  .

(b) Except as otherwise provided by  , the remaining provisons of   and of this order shall take effect on  , except that   may establish an earlier effective date, but not    , for any such provisions with respect to which the   determines an earlier effective date is appropriate.

 

 ,

 .
