Executive Order  —Amendments Relating to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to update  , it is hereby ordered that Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended to read as follows:

"  of  

"Whereas (1) the congressional charter of   ('Academy') charges it, upon call from any  , to investigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or art and (2) the actual expenses of the Academy for such investigations, examinations, experiments, and reports shall be paid to the Academy through one or more of the following: private gifts and bequests; appropriations for the benefit of the  ; grants-in-aid, contracts, and other forms of financial agreement with executive departments and agencies, provided that the Academy shall receive no compensation whatever for any services to  ; and

"Whereas the National Research Council ('Council') was organized in   at the request of the President by  , under its congressional charter, as a measure of national preparedness; and

"Whereas the Council is the principal operating agency of   and  , the latter having been established in   under the charter of  ; and

"Whereas  , established in   under the  's charter, conducts its programs and activities under the approval, operating, and review procedures of the  ; and

"Whereas in recognition of the work accomplished through the   in organizing research, in furthering science, and in securing cooperation of government and nongovernment agencies in the solution of their problems, the   has been perpetuated by the   as requested by the President in Executive Order No.   of  ; and

"Whereas the effective prosecution of the  's work may require the close cooperation of the scientific and technical branches of the Government, both military and civil, and makes participation by officers and employees of the Government in the work of the   desirable; and

"Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is ordered as follows:

"1. The functions of the   shall be as follows:

"(a) To stimulate research in the mathematical, physical, biological, environmental, and social sciences, and in the application of these sciences to engineering, agriculture, medicine, and other useful arts, with the object of increasing knowledge, of strengthening the national security including the contribution of science and engineering to economic growth, of ensuring the health of the   people, of aiding in the attainment of environmental goals, and of contributing in other ways to the public welfare.

"(b) To survey the broad possibilities of science, to formulate comprehensive projects of research, and to develop effective means of utilizing the scientific and technical resources of the country for dealing with such projects.

"(c) To promote cooperation in research, at home and abroad, in order to secure concentration of effort, minimize duplication, and stimulate progress; but in all cooperative undertakings to give encouragement to individual initiative, as fundamentally important to the advancement of science.

"(d) To serve as a means of bringing   and foreign investigators into active cooperation with the scientific and technical services of  .

"(e) To direct the attention of scientific and technical investigators to the importance of military and industrial problems in connection with national security, to the importance of environmental problems in connection with public health and the economy, and to aid in the solution of these problems by organizing specific research.

"(f) To gather and collate scientific and technical information, at home and abroad, in cooperation with governmental and other agencies, and to disseminate such information to duly accredited persons and the public.

"2. Scientists, engineers, and other technically qualified professionals who are officers or employees of departments and agencies of the executive branch of the Government are encouraged to participate in the work of the   as requested by the   to the extent authorized by the head of the officer's or employee's agency or department and permitted by law.

"3. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, and in accordance with the congressional charter of the  , the actual expense of investigations, examinations, experiments, and reports by   branch of the Government shall be paid to the Academy through one or more of the following: private gifts and bequests; appropriations for the benefit of the  ; grants-in-aid, contracts, and other forms of financial agreement with executive departments and agencies. The   shall receive no compensation whatever for any services to  . Further, the   shall be subject to all provisions of   A--122, 'Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations,' and to such other requirements regarding or limiting the  's recovery of costs as the Director of   may specify from time to time in writing to the   and to agencies and departments of the Government.

"4. When a department or agency of the executive branch of the Government determines that the  , because of its unique qualifications, is the only source that can provide the measure of expertise, independence, objectivity, and audience acceptance necessary to meet the department's or agency's program requirements, acquisition of services by the   may be obtained on a noncompetitive basis if otherwise in accordance with applicable law and regulations."

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
