Executive Order  —Ordering   of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the National Emergencies Act

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code; in furtherance of Executive Order No.  , dated  , which declared a national emergency to address the threat to the national security and foreign policy of   posed by the invasion of   by  ; and, in accordance with the requirements contained in section 301 of the National Emergencies Act, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1. To provide additional authority to   and   to respond to the continuing threat posed by  's invasion of  , the authority under section 673 of title 10, United States Code, to order any unit, and any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, in   to active duty (other than for training) for not more than  , is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary concerned, subject, in the case of the Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , to tthe direction of the Secretary of  . The term "Secretary concerned" is defined in section 101(8) of title 10, United States Code, to mean the Secretary of the   with respect to the  ; the Secretary of the   with respect to the  ,  , and   when it is operating as a service in the  ; the Secretary of   with respect to  ; and, the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  .

 . 2. To allow for the orderly administration of personnel within the armed forces, the authority vested in the President by section 527 of title 10, United States Code, to suspend the operation of sections 523-526 of title 10, United States Code, regarding officer strength and officer distribution in grade, is invoked to the full extent provided by the terms thereof.

 . 3. To allow for the orderly administration of personnel within the armed forces, the authority vested in the President by section 644 of title 10, United States Code, to suspend the operation of any provision of law relating to the promotion, involuntary retirement, or separation of commissioned officers of the  ,  ,  , or  , is invoked to the full extent provided by the terms thereof.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered, without the approvel, ratification, or other action by the President, to exercise the authority vested in the President by sections 527 and 644 of title 10, United States Code, as invoked by sections 2 and 3 of this order, to suspend the operation of certain provisions of law.

 . 5. The authorities delegated by sections 1 and 4 of this order may be redelegated and further subdelegated to civilian subordinates who are appointed to their offices by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  .

 . 6. This order is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch, and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, if officers, or any person.

 . 7. This order is effective immediately, and shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
