Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), an advisory council on the rural economic development policy of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's   ("Council"). The   shall be composed of not more than twenty (20) members to be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall appoint a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President and   on how   can improve its rural economic development policy.

(b) In the performance of its advisory duties, the   shall conduct such continuing reviews and assessments of   rural economic development policy as deemed necessary or appropriate by the  .

 . 3 Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information with respect to rural economic development policy matters as the   deems required for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   who are not otherwise officers or employees of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions. Funds for the operation of the   shall be provided by  .

(d) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(e) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .
