Executive Order  —Blocking "Yugoslav Government" Property and Property of the Governments of Serbia and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  

et seq.

),  

et seq.

), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code.

I,  , President of  , find that the actions and policies of   and  , acting under the name of   or  , in their involvement in and support for groups attempting to seize territory in   and   by force and violence utilizing, in part, the forces of the so-called  , constitute and unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   and   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property in the name of   or   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked.

 . 3. Any transaction by any   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or person in  ;

(b) The terms "Government of Serbia" and Government of Montenegro" include the governments of   and  , including any subdivisions thereof or local government therein, their respective agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including  ,  ,  , and  ;

(c) The terms "Government of the Socialist Federal Republic or  " and "Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" include the government of the former  , the government of the newly constituted  , their respective agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and any person acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including  ,  , and  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property, or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value by any   person to  ,  ,  ,  , any person is   or  , or any person or entity acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any of the foregoing. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order shall take effect at 11:590 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time,  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
