Executive Order  —Transfer of   by Domestic Banks
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  

et seq.

),  

et seq.

), section 5 of   of  , as amended and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in order to apply in   measures adopted in   Resolution No. 778 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of   and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1. The Secretary of the   is authorized and directed to take all actions necessary to carry out the provisions of   Resolution No. 778 with respect to blocked funds and other assets described in section 2 of this order, or funds and other assets received from   in repayment of funds and assets transferred pursuant to section 2 of this order. For this purpose, the Secretary of the   is delegated and authorized to exercise all authorities vested in the President by sections 203 and 205 of   and  ) and section 5 of  . 2. Upon a determination by the Secretary of the   that funds or other assets in which   or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities have an interest represent the proceeds of the sale of   petroleum or petroleum products, paid for bys or on behalf of the purchaser on or after  , each and every   financial institution is directed and compelled to transfer such funds or assets held by it or carried on its books to   of  , when to the extent, and in the manner required by the Secretary of the  .

 . 3.   of  , as fiscal agent of  , is authorized, directed, and compelled to receive funds and other assets in which   or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities have an interest, and to hold, invest, or transfer such funds and assets, and any earnings thereon, when, to the extent, and in the manner required by the Secretary of the   in order to fulfill the rights and obligations of   under   Resolution No. 778.

 . 4. Compliance with this order, or any regulation, instruction, or discretion issued under this order, licensing, authorizing, directing, or compelling the transfer of the blocked funds and other assets described in section 2 of this order, or funds and other assets received from   in repayment of funds and assets transferred pursuant to section 2 of this order, shall, to the extent thereof, be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the transfer. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, this order or any regulation, instruction, or discretion issued hereunder. The operation of this order shall have no effect on rights, debts, and claims existing with respect to funds or other assets prior to their transfer to   of  .

 . 5. For the purposes of this order, the term "  financial institution" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of  , or any person located in  , which is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange or securities, including, but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, clearing corporations, investment companies, and   holding companies,   affiliates, or   subsidiaries of the foregoing. This term includes branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in  .

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to take such actions, including the issuance of directive licenses, rules, and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 7. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party (other than  ) against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 8.

(a) This order is effective immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
