Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and in view of  . 2/91, adopted by   Ministers of Foreign Affairs of   on  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order No.   of  ,

I,  , President of  , find that the grave events in   that are continuing to disrupt the legitimate exercise of power by the democratically elected government of that country continue to constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  , and hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of  , its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, including   d'Haiti, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:

(a) Any direct or indirect payments or transfers to the de facto regime in   of funds, including currency, cash, or coins of any nation, or of other financial or investment assets or credits, by any   person, or by any person organized under the laws of   and owned or controlled by a   person, are prohibited. All transfers or payments owed to   shall be made when due into an account at  , or as otherwise may be directed by the Secretary of the  , to be held for the benefit of the   people.

(b) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the importation into   of any goods of   origin, other than publications and other informational materials, or of services performed in  , is prohibited.

(c) The exportation from   to  , directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information controlled for export pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations, 15   768 et seq.), or services other than (i) publications and other informational materials; (ii) donations of articles intended to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, medicine and medical supplies; and (iii) rice, beans, sugar, wheat flour, and cooking oil, is prohibited.

(d) For a period of   from the effective date of this order, goods containing parts or materials exported from   prior to the effective date of this order may be imported into   following assembly or processing in  .

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "de facto regime in  " means those who seized power illegally from the democratically elected government of President   on  , and includes any persons, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities purporting to act on behalf of the de facto regime in  , or under the asserted authority thereof, or any extraconstitutional successor thereto.

(b) The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of  , or any person in  .

(c) The term "goods of   origin" means goods grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed in  , or which have entered into   commerce.

 . 4. The measures taken pursuant to this order are not intended to block private   assets subject to the jurisdiction of  , or to prohibit remittances by   persons to   persons other than the de facto regime in  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property, or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value, by any   person to the de facto regime in  ; or prohibiting or regulating the provision of transportation between   and   by any vessel or aircraft. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 6. Unless otherwise specified, this order shall be effective as of 11:59 p.m.,  ,  . Sections 1 and 2(a) of this order became effective at 12:23 p.m. on  , pursuant to Executive Order No.  .

 . 7. Nothing contained in this order shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies or its officers, or   of New York or its officers.

 . 8. Executive  .   of  , is hereby revoked to the extent inconsistent with this order. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken pursuant to Executive Order No.   and not revoked administratively shall remain in full force and effect under this order until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority. The revocation of any provision of Executive Order No.   pursuant to this section shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action pursuant to that order during the period that such provision of that order was in effect.

This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
