Executive Order  —Educational Excellence for   Americans
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to advance the development of human potential, to strengthen the capacity to provide quality education, and to increase opportunities for     to participate in and benefit from Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There shall be established, in  , the President's   for    . The members of the   shall be appointed by the President and shall report to the Secretary of  . The   shall comprise representatives of educational, business, professional, and civic organizations that are committed to improving education, including organizations representing    , as well as other persons deemed appropriate by the President.

 . 2. The   shall provide advice to the Secretary of   on the progress of     toward achievement of national education goals and on such other aspects of the educational status of     as it considers appropriate.

 . 3. The Secretary of   shall establish   Initiative ("Initiative") on Educational Excellence for    . The Initiative shall be housed in, staffed, and supported by  . The Initiative shall assist the   and the Secretary of   in their activities to establish linkages between  ,  , and the education and business community. The Initiative shall also assist the Secretary of   in carrying out the Secretary's responsibilities under this order.

 . 4. To the extent permitted by law, the   shall provide advice to the Secretary of   as the Secretary develops and monitors Federal efforts to promote quality education for    . Particular emphasis shall be given to: enhancing parental involvement; promoting early childhood education; removing barriers to success in education and work, particularly limited proficiency in the English language; and, helping students to achieve their potential at all educational levels. The   will also provide advice on ways to increase private sector and community involvement in improving education.

 . 5. The Secretary of   shall periodically report to the President on the progress achieved by   students toward national education goals. The reports shall identify efforts of executive departments and agencies to improve the quality of education for     and shall include data available on the participation of     in Federal education programs. The reports shall also include any advice of the   and appropriate recommendations for improving Federal education programs.

 . 6. To the extent permitted by law, executive departments and agencies shall be actively involved in helping advance educational opportunities for    , including working with individuals and educational, business, and community groups serving    . Executive departments and agencies, to the extent feasible, shall collect data on the participation of     in Federal education programs. Executive departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall cooperate with the Secretary of   in the preparation of the reports.   shall highlight and encourage the efforts of volunteers and the private sector to improve the quality of education for    .

 . 7. The Secretary of   is directed to establish an   entitled the President's   for    . As provided in Section 1 of this order, the members of the   shall be appointed by the President. Notwithstanding any other executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to   to be established by this order, shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 

 ,

 .
