1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Mental Health Care and Coordination for Homeless Veterans Act
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs assessment of veterans needing homeless program services
(a)
In general
Subchapter VII of
chapter 20
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2070.
Assessment of veterans needing homeless program services
(a)
Assessments required
Not later than three days after the date on which an employee of the homeless program of the Department identifies a veteran as needing homeless program services, the employee shall conduct an assessment of the veteran that shall include—
(1)
an assessment of the physical and mental health needs of the veteran;
(2)
a plan to address the immediate and long-term mental and physical needs of the veteran; and
(3)
an identification of appropriate housing in which to place the veteran.
(b)
Inclusion in EHR
A homeless program employee who conducts an assessment under subsection (a) shall ensure that—
(1)
the information collected as part of the assessment is consistent with the information included in the electronic health record of the veteran; and
(2)
personally identifiable information is collected and maintained in accordance with the policies of the Department and the Veterans Health Administration, Federal law, and ethical practices.
(c)
Implementation monitoring
The Director of the Homeless Program Office shall ensure that appropriate homeless program employees monitor the implementation of the plans developed pursuant to subsection (a)(2) to ensure that veterans who are homeless and at-risk for homelessness and who have mental health issues are getting the appropriate level and scope of services needed to address their immediate and long-term care and support needs.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2069 the following new item:
2070. Assessment of veterans needing homeless program services.
.
