1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trade Review Act of 2025
.
2.
Review by Congress of imposition of duties
(a)
In general
Chapter 5 of title I of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
155.
Review of imposition of duties
(a)
Notification requirement
Not later than 48 hours after imposing or increasing a duty with respect to an article imported into the United States, the President shall submit to Congress a notification of the imposition of or increase in the duty that includes—
(1)
an explanation of the reasoning for imposing or increasing the duty; and
(2)
an assessment of the potential impact of imposing or increasing the duty on United States businesses and consumers.
(b)
Expiration of duties; extension by Congress
Any duty on an article imported into the United States shall remain in effect for a period of not more than 60 days, unless there is enacted into law a joint resolution of approval with respect to the duty under subsection (e).
(c)
Disapproval by Congress
If a joint resolution of disapproval with respect to a duty is enacted into law under subsection (e), the duty shall cease to have force or effect.
(d)
Exclusion of antidumping and countervailing duties
This section does not apply with respect to antidumping and countervailing duties imposed under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.
).
(e)
Joint resolutions
(1)
Definitions
In this section:
(A)
Joint resolution of approval
The term
joint resolution of approval
means a joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows:
That Congress approves the duty imposed with respect to ___, notice of which was submitted to Congress on ______.
, with the first blank space being filled with a description of the article and the second blank space being filled with the date of the notification under subsection (a).
(B)
Joint resolution of disapproval
The term
joint resolution of disapproval
means a joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows:
That Congress disapproves the duty imposed with respect to ___, notice of which was submitted to Congress on ______.
, with the first blank space being filled with a description of the article and the second blank space being filled with the date of the notification under subsection (a).
(2)
Introduction
(A)
Joint resolution of approval
A joint resolution of approval may be introduced in either House of Congress by any Member during the 60-day period described in subsection (b).
(B)
Joint resolution of disapproval
A joint resolution of disapproval may be introduced in either House of Congress by any Member at any time after the submission of a notification under subsection (a).
(3)
Expedited procedures
The provisions of subsections (b) through (f) of section 152 (
19 U.S.C. 2192
) apply to a joint resolution of approval or joint resolution of disapproval to the same extent that such subsections apply to joint resolutions under section 152.
(4)
Rules of the Senate and the House of Representatives
This subsection is enacted by Congress—
(A)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of approval, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(B)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Trade Act of 1974 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 154 the following:
Sec. 155. Review of imposition of duties.
.
