1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Emerging Tech Opportunities for Veterans Act
.
2.
Critical stakeholder partnerships for emerging technologies
(a)
Partnerships required
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in partnership with critical stakeholders, shall—
(1)
identify specific types of industries and positions that, as a result of emerging technologies, are likely to have high employment and growth potential for individuals with appropriate education, training, or skills; and
(2)
identify courses of education that help veterans acquire the appropriate education, training, or skills to become employed in such industries and positions.
(b)
Prominent dissemination
The Secretary shall ensure that such emerging technologies, and such courses of education, industries, and positions, are prominently included in the Transition Assistance Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code, and prominently displayed on the Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Expedited approval process
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish an expedited process for the approval, as provided in chapters 34, 35, and 36 of title 38 United States Code, of courses of education identified under subsection (a)(2).
(d)
Determination of emerging technologies
The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, determine which technologies of critical importance, such as artificial intelligence and semiconductor manufacturing, shall be treated as emerging technologies for purposes of this section.
(e)
Definition of critical stakeholders
In this section, the term
critical stakeholders
means entities in the private sector that have an interest in supporting veterans to pursue education programs involving emerging technologies, such as employers in relevant industries, educational institutions offering relevant programs (whether or not leading to a standard college degree), and non-profit organizations.
(f)
Sunset
This section shall terminate on September 30, 2027.
3.
Inclusion of emerging technologies in high technology program
(a)
In general
Section 3699C of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the section heading by striking
High technology
and inserting
High technology and emerging technology
;
(2)
by striking
high technology
and inserting
high technology or emerging technology
each place such term appears; and
(3)
in subsection (c)(4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(E)
Such criteria shall also identify which technologies of critical importance, such as artificial intelligence and semiconductor manufacturing, shall be treated as emerging technologies for purposes of this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 36 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 3699D and inserting the following new item:
3699C. High technology and emerging technology program.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Section 3680A of title 38, United States Code, is amended in each of subsections (a)(4)(B) and (d)(8) by striking
high technology
and inserting
high technology or emerging technology
.
