1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Affairs Transparency and Reform of the Upper Senior Tenure Act
or the
VA TRUST Act
.
2.
Pay for senior executive positions
(a)
Reports on performance awards and bonuses to high-Level employees
Section 726(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(4)
The appropriations accounts from which amounts were used to pay such an award or bonus.
(5)
The annual basic rate of pay for each individual awarded the award or bonus.
.
(b)
Pay for senior executive positions
(1)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 7
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
729.
Pay for senior executive positions
(a)
Rates of pay
Any individual appointed to a senior executive position within the Department shall receive the annual rate of basic pay applicable to such a position, as determined by the Secretary, in accordance with the pay ranges, structure, and aggregate limitations established for the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of
chapter 53
of title 5, including section 5382.
(b)
Career appointees transferring from other agencies
Any career appointee who transfers from another agency to a senior executive position at the Department shall receive the annual rate of basic pay applicable to such position, as determined by the Secretary under subsection (a), and such rate shall be consistent with the individual’s performance and pay level under sections 5383 and 5384 of title 5.
(c)
Transfers within the Department
If any individual occupying a senior executive position at the Department transfers or otherwise moves to another senior executive position within the Department, the individual shall, effective on the first day of the first pay period beginning after the date that the individual first occupies such other position, receive the rate of basic pay established by the Secretary for that position under subsection (a). The Secretary may adjust such rate only to the extent authorized under section 5382 or 5383 of title 5.
(d)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
career appointee
and
senior executive position
have the meanings given such terms in section 3132(a) of title 5.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
729. Pay for senior executive positions.
.
