1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Justice for the Living Victims of Lockerbie Act
.
2.
Defined term
In this Act, the term
compensable living victim of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism
means an individual who—
(1)
is a United States person;
(2)
was 45 years of age or older on December 3, 1991;
(3)
was employed by Pan American World Airways, Inc., on December 3, 1991;
(4)
was a named claimant in Abbott et al. v. Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (case number 1:94–cv–02444–SS) in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia; and
(5)
was alive on August 14, 2008.
3.
Living Victims of Lockerbie Claims Trust Fund
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall establish, in the Treasury of the United States, a trust fund, to be known as the
Living Victims of Lockerbie Claims Trust Fund
(in this section referred to as the
Fund
) for the payment of claims submitted by compensable living victims of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism under section 4.
(b)
Appropriations
Once the Fund is established pursuant to subsection (a), there shall be appropriated to the Fund, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, $42,066,338, to remain available until expended, which shall be made available to provide compensation to compensable living victims of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism.
4.
Compensation for living victims of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism
(a)
Certification by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission
The Foreign Claims Settlement Commission shall—
(1)
not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, publish in the Federal Register a notice of a process for filing claims on behalf of compensable living victims of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism, which shall include a deadline for the filing of claims of not later than the date that is 60 days after the date of publication of the notice;
(2)
not later than 60 days after the end of the period for filing claims described in paragraph (1)—
(A)
determine if each individual who submitted a claim under that paragraph is a compensable living victim of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism; and
(B)
approve the claim of each individual the Commission determines under subparagraph (A) to be a compensable living victim of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism; and
(3)
upon approving a claim under paragraph (2)(B), certify approval of the claim to the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of authorization of payment under subsection (b).
(b)
Payments authorized
Upon receiving a certification from the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission under subsection (a)(3), the Secretary of the Treasury shall make payments from the Fund to compensable living victims of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism in accordance with subsection (c).
(c)
Compensation
(1)
In general
Upon a certification by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission under subsection (a)(3) of the claim of a compensable living victim of Libyan State-sponsored terrorism, the claimant (or, in the case of a deceased claimant, the personal representative of the claimant’s estate) shall be entitled to an award in an amount equal to—
(A)
$42,066,338, divided by
(B)
the total number of claims certified under subsection (a)(3).
(2)
Representative
If a putative claimant that otherwise qualifies for compensation under this section is deceased, a personal representative may bring a claim on behalf of the estate of the claimant.
