1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Dollars to Uyghur Forced Labor Act
.
2.
Prohibition on use of funds supporting any activities within the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region of the People’s Republic of China
(a)
In general
No funds available to the Department of State or the United States Agency for International Development may be used to develop, design, plan, promulgate, implement, or execute a policy, program, or contract that knowingly uses goods, wares, articles, or merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People’s Republic of China or produced by a covered entity, unless such activity is specifically authorized pursuant to subsection (b).
(b)
Specific authorization
The Secretary of State may specifically authorize an activity otherwise prohibited by subsection (a) if—
(1)
the Secretary—
(A)
obtains in writing an assurance from the relevant program partner, implementor, or contractor that such partner, implementor, or contractor—
(i)
will not use goods, wares, articles, or merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the PRC with respect to the program; and
(ii)
will develop a system to ensure compliance with the requirements in subsection (a); and
(B)
provides notice to the Chair and Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Chair and Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate not later than 15 days before authorizing the activity; and
(2)
the activity is not otherwise prohibited.
(c)
Report
The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on an annual basis for three years that describes—
(1)
all activities prohibited by subsection (a) that were carried out in violation of such prohibition and not specifically authorized pursuant to subsection (b) in the previous year;
(2)
any challenges in enforcing the requirements of this section; and
(3)
a plan to improve enforcement of the requirements of this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered entity
means an entity listed pursuant to clause (i), (ii), (iv), or (v) of section 2(d)(2)(B) of
Public Law 117–78
(135 Stat. 1527) under the strategy developed by section 2(c) of such
Public Law 117–78
.
(2)
The term
forced labor
has the meaning given that term in section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1307
).
