1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Passport Services Access Act
.
2.
Authorization of certain public libraries to collect and retain execution fee for passport application
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (
22 U.S.C. 214(a)
), is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The Secretary of State may authorize a public library, organized as a non-governmental organization, non-profit, charitable organization, or trust, to serve as a passport acceptance facility and to collect and retain the execution fee for a passport accepted by such public library, if such public library is in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State for the acceptance and execution of a passport application.
.
(b)
Authorization of prior public libraries which served as passport acceptance facilities
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall authorize each public library to serve as a passport acceptance facility and to collect and retain an execution fee for a passport accepted by such library, if, before the date of the enactment of this Act, such public library—
(A)
served as a passport acceptance facility; and
(B)
was in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State for the acceptance and execution of a passport application.
(2)
Report
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the relevant congressional committees which includes—
(A)
documentation of compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1); or
(B)
if such Secretary does not comply with paragraph (1), an explanation for such noncompliance.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Subsection (a)(1) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 214(a)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
State officials or the United States Postal Service
and inserting
a State or local government, the United States Postal Service, or a public library which meet the requirements described in paragraph (4)
; and
(2)
by striking
by such officials or by that Service.
and inserting
by such State or local government, Service, or public library.
