1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pilot and Aircraft Privacy Act of 2025
or the
PAPA Act of 2025
.
2.
Use of data from automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast
(a)
Limitation on use of data
Data from automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast may not be used by any person, governmental agency, or other entity to identify aircraft for the purpose of obtaining revenue from the owner or operator of such aircraft without the consent of such owner or operator.
(b)
Use of data by air traffic controllers
Automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast data—
(1)
may be used to assist air traffic controllers in tracking aircraft and improving air traffic safety and efficiency; and
(2)
may not be used for any proposed purpose other than the purpose under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary of Transportation, after notice and an opportunity for public comment, determines that such data may be used for such proposed purposes consistent with this section.
3.
Limit on use of ADS–B data
Section 46101(c) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may not
and inserting
neither the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration nor any other Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal official may
.
4.
Imposition of fees on general aviation aircraft
(a)
In general
Chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
40133.
Imposition of fees on general aviation aircraft
(a)
Public availability
Prior to imposing a landing or takeoff fee on general aviation aircraft, the owner or operator of a public-use airport (as defined in section 47102) shall make available to the public—
(1)
all efforts such owner or operator has undertaken to reduce non-airside related expenses;
(2)
all efforts such owner or operator has undertaken to obtain revenues from sources other than general aviation aircraft;
(3)
the total cost estimate of the airside safety projects that such owner or operator plans to undertake, the amount or percentage of the fees imposed on general aviation aircraft that will be used to pay for such projects, and an estimated timeline to collect such amount; and
(4)
an assessment of the impact of any fees on the health and vitality of general aviation and on the pilots, students, nonprofit organizations and businesses that support or rely on general aviation in the area of the airport.
(b)
Use of fees
Any revenues derived from fees imposed on general aviation aircraft described in subsection (a) may only be used for airside safety projects.
(c)
Regulations
The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may promulgate such regulations or impose such reporting requirements as may be necessary to implement this section.
(d)
General aviation aircraft defined
In this section, the term
general aviation aircraft
means an aircraft that is being used for personal, recreational, flight training, or for purposes other than scheduled airline operations or military flights.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
40133. Imposition of fees on general aviation aircraft.
.
