1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Frank Siller Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
On September 11, 2001, firefighter Stephen Siller, of Squad 1, Brooklyn, lost his life after running through the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel with 60 pounds of gear to reach the Twin Towers in response to the terrorist attacks.
(2)
In honor of his brother’s sacrifice, Frank Siller founded the Tunnel to Towers Foundation, dedicated to supporting America’s first responders, military service members, and their families.
(3)
Under Frank Siller’s leadership, the Foundation has—
(A)
paid off mortgages for families of fallen first responders and Gold Star families;
(B)
built homes for injured veterans;
(C)
provided housing assistance and support to homeless veterans; and
(D)
expanded national programs ensuring that the sacrifices of heroes are never forgotten.
(4)
In 2021, Frank Siller completed a 255-mile
Never Forget Walk
from the Pentagon to Shanksville, Pennsylvania, to Ground Zero, honoring the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks and reaffirming the Nation’s commitment to
Do Good
.
(5)
Through his vision and leadership, Frank Siller has united millions of Americans in service, gratitude, and remembrance, continuing to embody the best ideals of patriotism, compassion, and community.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration to Frank Siller, in recognition of his contributions to memorialize all who lost their lives in the tragic events of 9/11, his efforts to support affected loved ones, and his enduring advocacy to serve those who serve their country.
(b)
Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under this Act shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
