1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Advocates for Families Act of 2025
.
2.
Family advocates in child welfare cases
(a)
State plan requirements
Section 422(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 622(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (18), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (19), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(20)
provide—
(A)
that the laws and procedures of the State shall permit any parent, foster parent, or legal guardian of a child to seek and receive the services of a family advocate, who shall have the authority to represent the interests and act on behalf of the parent, foster parent, or legal guardian, throughout any child welfare case or interaction involving the child, without obligating the State to pay or provide for the services;
(B)
that the State shall implement appropriate standards and rules governing the professional conduct of a family advocate;
(C)
how the State shall inform a parent, foster parent, or legal guardian of a child, from the commencement of any child welfare case or interaction involving the child, of the right to be represented by a family advocate and of any local resources available to obtain the representation; and
(D)
how the State shall inform the Secretary of—
(i)
the effect that honoring the right of every parent, foster parent, or legal guardian of a child to be represented by a family advocate has on the provision of child welfare services; and
(ii)
any recommendation of the State for ensuring that a parent, foster parent, or legal guardian of a child may exercise the right to be represented by a family advocate.
.
(b)
Report to Congress on family advocates
Subpart 1 of part B of title IV of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 621–628d
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
429C.
Report to Congress on family advocates
Within 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a written report with respect to the right of a parent, foster parent, or legal guardian of a child to be represented by a family advocate, based on the submissions of the States pursuant to section 422(b)(23), to—
(1)
the Committees on the Judiciary, on Education and the Workforce, and on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committees on the Judiciary, on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and on Finance of the Senate.
.
