1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Western South Dakota Water Supply Project Feasibility Study Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Non-Federal project entity
The term
non-Federal project entity
means the Western Dakota Regional Water System, Inc., a nonprofit corporation.
(2)
Proposed rural water supply project
The term
proposed rural water supply project
means the proposed project to supply municipal, rural, and industrial water from the Missouri River to the Western Dakota Regional Water System.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Western South Dakota water supply project feasibility study
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in coordination with the non-Federal project entity, shall carry out a study to determine the feasibility of the proposed rural water supply project.
(2)
Feasibility report
After completion of the feasibility study for the proposed rural water supply project under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
develop a feasibility report that includes a recommendation of the Secretary on—
(i)
whether the proposed rural water supply project should be authorized for construction; and
(ii)
the appropriate non-Federal share of construction costs, which shall be—
(I)
at least 25 percent of the total construction costs; and
(II)
determined based on an analysis of the financial capability-to-pay the allocated construction and operations, maintenance, and replacement costs of the recommended plan;
(B)
submit the report under subparagraph (A) to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and
(C)
make the report under subparagraph (A) publicly available, along with associated feasibility study documents.
(3)
Consultation and cooperation
In addition to the non-Federal project entity, the Secretary shall consult and cooperate with appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, regional, and local authorities during the conduct of the feasibility study and development of the feasibility report under this subsection.
(b)
Cost-Sharing agreement for feasibility study costs
The Secretary shall enter into a cost-sharing agreement (or an appropriate financial assistance agreement, as determined by the Secretary) with the non-Federal project entity to conduct a study under subsection (a) that complies with the reclamation feasibility standards.
(c)
Federal share of feasibility study costs
The Federal share of the total costs of carrying out the feasibility study under subsection (a) shall not exceed 50 percent.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $10,000,000.
(e)
Termination of authority
The authority provided by this section expires on the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
