1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tech Diplomacy Training Act
.
2.
Requirement to complete certain science, technology, engineering, and mathematics training
Section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (
22 U.S.C. 4028
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
STEM Training
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State, acting through the Director of the George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center, shall establish and conduct training on—
(A)
matters related to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, including—
(i)
artificial intelligence;
(ii)
next generation communications;
(iii)
technological advancements made in different geographic regions;
(iv)
how such topics affect diplomacy; and
(v)
any other training with respect to such matters that such secretary determines critical to the Foreign Service;
(B)
how the United States may utilize emerging science, technology, engineering, and mathematics matters as a tool of diplomacy; and
(C)
how United States adversaries and national security threats, as identified in the National Security Strategy most recently published by the President on the date on which such training is conducted, utilize technology—
(i)
to undermine United States diplomacy; and
(ii)
when engaging in diplomacy.
(2)
Condensed training
The Secretary of State, acting through the Director of the George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center, shall establish a condensed training curriculum on the matters described in paragraph (1).
(3)
Required training
(A)
In general
The training described under paragraph (1) shall be included in the A–100 course attended by each Foreign Service officer.
(B)
Existing officers
With respect to an officer serving in the Foreign Service on the date of the enactment of the Tech Diplomacy Training Act and who has completed the A–100 course—
(i)
the training described under paragraph (1) shall be completed not later than 18 months after such date of enactment; or
(ii)
the training described under paragraph (2) shall be completed not later than 270 days after such date of enactment.
(4)
Relation to existing training
The training required by this subsection shall be in addition to and conducted separate from each other training required to be completed by a Foreign Service officer.
.
