1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
African Development Foundation Termination Act of 2026
.
2.
Abolishment of the United States African Development Foundation
The United States African Development Foundation (in this Act referred to as the
Foundation
) is hereby abolished effective on the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
3.
Wind-down and transfer of assets
(a)
Conclusion period
During the 120-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall take such actions as may be necessary to conclude the outstanding affairs of the Foundation.
(b)
Transfer of remaining funds and property
(1)
Unexpended balances
Any unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds available to the Foundation shall be deposited into the general fund of the Department of the Treasury.
(2)
Assets including records
All assets, liabilities, contracts, property, and records of the Foundation shall be transferred to the Department of State, as determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, solely for the purpose of liquidation or oversight of existing multi-year grants until their expiration.
(c)
No new awards
No new grants, loans, loan guarantees, or project agreements may be entered into by the Foundation on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Repeal of the African Development Foundation Act
(a)
Repeal
The African Development Foundation Act (title V of
Public Law 96–533
;
22 U.S.C. 290h et seq.
) is repealed.
(b)
Conforming amendments
The Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a report containing proposed legislation making such technical and conforming amendments to the United States Code as are necessary to reflect the repeal made by subsection (a).
5.
Personnel
The Foundation shall provide appropriate notice to employees of the Foundation in accordance with applicable Federal law regarding reductions in force, including the principles set forth in sections 3501 through 3504 of title 5, United States Code, and regulations prescribed thereunder.
