1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Growing Regional Entrepreneurship and Access To Economic Resilience Act
or the
GREATER Act
.
2.
Memorandum of understanding to expand rural entrepreneurship and support to small business concerns within Appalachian region and the Delta region
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the appropriate head of the Appalachian Regional Commission, and the appropriate head of the Delta Regional Authority (in this section referred to as the
covered officials
) shall enter into a memorandum of understanding or other appropriate agreement to carry out activities within the Appalachian region and the Delta region, as applicable, to expand rural entrepreneurship and to support covered small business concerns.
(b)
Memorandum of understanding or agreement
The covered officials shall carry out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more memoranda of understanding or other appropriate agreements, as jointly determined by the covered officials.
(c)
Inclusion of covered small business concerns
In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials shall ensure the inclusion of covered small business concerns in such activities, as appropriate.
(d)
Other Requirements
In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials may—
(1)
carry out reimbursable agreements between the Appalachian Regional Commission, Delta Regional Authority, the Small Business Administration, and other appropriate entities in order to maximize the effectiveness of activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b); and
(2)
collaborate with other Federal agencies as appropriate to carry out such activities.
(e)
Report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the covered officials shall jointly submit to Congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) that includes the following:
(1)
Coordination between the covered officials involved in such activities.
(2)
Potential opportunities to expand the ability of the Appalachian Regional Commission, Delta Regional Authority, and the Small Business Administration to provide assistance to rural entrepreneurs or covered small business concerns, as applicable.
(3)
The number of rural entrepreneurs or covered small business concerns assisted through activities carried out pursuant to such memorandum or agreement.
(4)
Areas of future collaboration among the covered officials for the benefit of rural entrepreneurs or covered small business concerns located within the Appalachian region or Delta region, as applicable.
(5)
Plans of the covered officials to continue coordination on activities described in subsection (a).
(f)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered small business concern
The term
covered small business concern
means a small business concern (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)) located within the Appalachian region or Delta region.
(2)
Appalachian Regional Commission
The term
Appalachian Regional Commission
means the commission established by section 14301(a) of title 40, United States Code.
(3)
Delta region
The term
Delta region
has the meaning given the term
region
in section 382A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (
7 U.S.C. 2009aa
).
(4)
Delta Regional Authority
The term
Delta Regional Authority
means the entity established under subtitle F of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (
7 U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.
).
