1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restore College Sports Act
.
2.
American collegiate sports association
(a)
Establishment
The American Collegiate Sports Association (in this Act referred to as the
ACSA
) is established to oversee and regulate college sports, in replacement of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).
(b)
Membership
The ACSA shall be comprised of institutions of higher education that participate in the ACSA as member institutions of higher education.
(c)
Governance
(1)
Commissioner
The ACSA shall be governed by a commissioner.
(2)
Appointment of commissioner
The Commission shall be led by a Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(3)
Term of commissioner
The commissioner shall serve a term of 4 years.
(d)
Rules
Each member institution of higher education shall comply with the following rules of the ACSA:
(1)
All revenue relating to name, image, and likeness, including direct payments from member institutions of higher education and collectives, shall be distributed equally among all student athletes of such institutions within the ACSA.
(2)
Student athletes of member institutions of higher education shall have the right to transfer freely among such institutions without penalty or restriction.
(3)
Athletic conferences shall be comprised of member institutions of higher education within the same time zone to minimize travel and academic disruption.
(4)
All revenue generated from athletic programs of member institutions of higher education, including ticket sales, merchandise, and sponsorships, shall be shared equally among such member institutions of higher education and student athletes within the ACSA.
(5)
The maximum annual salary of each coach of a member institution of higher education shall be capped at a level not more than 10 times the full cost of attendance for students at such institution.
(6)
All revenue generated from broadcasting college sports events on television shall be shared equally among all member institutions of higher education within the ACSA.
(e)
Enforcement
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1094(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(30)
The institution will be a member of the American Collegiate Sports Association established under section 2 of the
Restore College Sports Act
and will comply with the requirements of subsection (d) of such section.
.
