1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Patient Education And Knowledge Act of 2025
or the
SPEAK Act of 2025
.
2.
Guidance on furnishing services via telehealth to individuals with limited English proficiency
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with 1 or more entities from each of the categories described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of
subsection (b)
, shall issue and disseminate, or update and revise as applicable, guidance for the entities described in such subsection on the following:
(1)
Best practices on facilitating and integrating use of interpreters during a telemedicine appointment.
(2)
Best practices on providing accessible instructions on how to access telecommunications systems (as such term is used for purposes of section 1834(m) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395m(m)
) for individuals with limited English proficiency.
(3)
Best practices on improving access to digital patient portals for individuals with limited English proficiency.
(4)
Best practices on integrating the use of video platforms that enable multi-person video calls furnished via a telecommunications system for purposes of providing interpretation during a telemedicine appointment for an individual with limited English proficiency.
(5)
Best practices for providing patient materials, communications, and instructions in multiple languages, including text message appointment reminders and prescription information.
(b)
Entities described
For purposes of
subsection (a)
, an entity described in this subsection is an entity in 1 or more of the following categories:
(1)
Health information technology service providers, including—
(A)
electronic medical record companies;
(B)
remote patient monitoring companies; and
(C)
telehealth or mobile health vendors and companies.
(2)
Health care providers, including—
(A)
physicians; and
(B)
hospitals.
(3)
Health insurers.
(4)
Language service companies.
(5)
Interpreter or translator professional associations.
(6)
Health and language services quality certification organizations.
(7)
Patient and consumer advocates, including such advocates that work with individuals with limited English proficiency.
