1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fostering the Future for American Children and Families Act
.
2.
Study of Federal, State, and private sector programs that support technical job training, on-the-job training, and apprenticeships for current and former foster youth
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, shall conduct a comprehensive study of the Federal, State, and private sector programs that support technical job training, on-the-job training, and apprenticeships for current and former foster youth. The study shall evaluate the effectiveness of the programs, gaps in services provided under the programs, the barriers to accessing the programs, and the opportunities to expand career pathways for youth transitioning out of the child welfare system.
(b)
Report to Congress
Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to the Congress a report containing findings and recommendations of the study required by subsection (a) for improving alignment of the matters referred to in subsection (a), the need for additional funding to do so, and the modernization of the relevant programs.
3.
Fostering the Future Pipeline Program
(a)
Establishment
After completing the study required by section 2, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall establish in the Department of Health and Human Services a program, which shall be known as the
Fostering the Future Pipeline Program
, under which grants are made to States, academic institutions, private-sector employers, and nonprofit or faith-based organizations, on a competitive basis, to expand access to industry-aligned technical job training and apprenticeships for current and former foster youth, including through training or apprenticeships in high-demand fields such as skilled trades, manufacturing, health care, information technology, and agriculture.
(b)
Limitations on authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services not more than $50,000,000 for each fiscal year.
4.
Authority to use education and training vouchers provided pursuant to the John H. Chafee Foster Care Program for Successful Transition to Adulthood to increase flexibility for youth exiting foster care
Section 477(i)(4) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(i)(4)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
and
at the end of subparagraph (A); and
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) and subparagraph (C) and inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
(B)
may be available for short-term, career-focused, credential-granting programs, including registered apprenticeships, certificate programs, and other rapid-employment pathways; and
.
5.
Effective date
This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
