1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Affordable, Reliable, Clean Energy Security Act of 2025
.
2.
Definitions
For purposes of this Act:
(1)
Affordable
The term
affordable
with respect to energy means a low cost method of producing electricity, factoring in the full system cost of each generation source.
(2)
Reliable
The term
reliable
with respect to energy means a source of electricity that—
(A)
except as required during a period of routine maintenance or repairs, has an Effective Load Carrying Capability of 60 percent or greater;
(B)
is not subject to intermittent availability; and
(C)
is not subject to routine weather that impacts energy production.
(3)
Clean
The term
clean
with respect to energy means any energy generated using—
(A)
an energy source listed in section 203(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15852(b)
);
(B)
a nuclear reactor; or
(C)
the combustion of hydrocarbons, in accordance with the national ambient air quality standards under title I of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7401
, et seq.), including any such energy that is generated using natural gas.
3.
Directing certain Federal departments and agencies to incorporate definitions of affordable, reliable, and clean energy
(a)
Identification report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall submit to Congress a report that identifies regulations, grants, guidance, and policies within their respective departments or agencies relating to affordable energy, reliable energy, and clean energy.
(b)
Identification report publication
The Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall publish the report required by subsection (a) on the respective public websites of the Department of Energy, the Department of the Interior, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
(c)
Definition adoption
Not later than 90 days after the report required by subsection (a) is submitted to Congress, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall update all regulations, grants, guidance, and policies of their respective department or agency relating to affordable energy, reliable energy, and clean energy to incorporate the definitions in section 2 of this Act.
(d)
Incorporation report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall each submit a report to Congress that identifies the manner and extent to which each department or agency has incorporated the definitions in this Act relating to affordable energy, reliable energy, and clean energy into their respective department or agency regulations, grants, guidance, and policies.
(e)
Incorporation report publication
The Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall publish the reports required by subsection (d) on the respective public websites of the Department of Energy, the Department of the Interior, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
