1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bridging the Broadband Gap Act of 2025
.
2.
Use of BEAD Program funds to provide broadband vouchers
Section 60102 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
47 U.S.C. 1702
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(p)
Broadband vouchers
(1)
In general
If an eligible entity makes the determination described in paragraph (2) with respect to a political subdivision of such eligible entity, such eligible entity may use grant funds received under this section to provide to households in such political subdivision vouchers that such households may use to cover eligible broadband service costs.
(2)
Determination
The determination described in this paragraph is a determination by an eligible entity that a political subdivision of such eligible entity lacks access to broadband service that such eligible entity considers adequate.
(3)
Priority
In providing vouchers under this subsection, an eligible entity shall give priority to households in political subdivisions the per capita income of which is below the median per capita income of the political subdivisions of such eligible entity, as determined by such eligible entity.
(4)
Limitations
(A)
Households in unserved locations or underserved locations
An eligible entity may not provide a voucher under this subsection to a household unless, on the day before such eligible entity provides the first such voucher to such household, such household resides at a location that is an unserved location or an underserved location.
(B)
Duration
In the case of eligible broadband service costs described in clauses (i)(II) and (ii) of paragraph (5)(B), an eligible entity may only provide vouchers under this subsection to a household to cover such costs charged to such household with respect to a single period of 12 consecutive months.
(5)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Broadband customer premises equipment
The term
broadband customer premises equipment
means equipment employed on the premises of a household to provide satellite or fixed wireless broadband service.
(B)
Eligible broadband service costs
The term
eligible broadband service costs
means the following:
(i)
50 percent of the amount charged by a provider of satellite or fixed wireless broadband service to a household for—
(I)
the purchase of broadband customer premises equipment; or
(II)
the monthly lease or rental of broadband customer premises equipment.
(ii)
The monthly amount (not to exceed $30 per month) charged by a provider of satellite or fixed wireless broadband service to a household for providing such service to such household.
.
