1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving the American Dream Act
.
2.
Memorandum of understanding
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency shall, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, establish a memorandum of understanding, or other appropriate interagency agreement, to share and coordinate relevant housing-related research and market data that facilities evidence-based policymaking.
3.
Interagency report
(a)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the covered agency heads shall jointly submit a report to the appropriate committees that outlines policy proposals from the covered agency heads to address each of the following:
(1)
Federal housing finance programs and coordination.
(2)
Opportunities to lower mortgage origination and servicing costs by aligning program underwriting and servicing standards to the greatest extent possible.
(3)
Housing construction costs, production barriers, and development incentives.
(4)
Local regulatory barriers to housing production.
(5)
Insurance costs and availability affecting housing markets.
(6)
Down payment assistance and housing transaction incentives.
(7)
Disaster resilience and housing recovery coordination.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees
The term
appropriate committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate;
(C)
the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
(D)
the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives;
(E)
the Committee on Way and Means of the House of Representatives; and
(F)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Covered agency head
The term
covered agency head
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
