1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pay Our Patriots Act
.
2.
Continuing appropriations for essential Armed Forces and FAA personnel
(a)
In general
During a covered lapse in appropriations, there are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to provide covered pay and allowances to covered employees.
(b)
Rate of appropriations
Appropriations made under subsection (a) shall be available to provide covered pay and allowances at the rate in effect immediately before the beginning of the covered lapse in appropriations.
(c)
Duration of appropriations
Appropriations and authority made available under this section shall continue until the earlier of—
(1)
the date on which the applicable regular appropriations Act or continuing resolution are enacted into law; or
(2)
the last day of the fiscal year in which the covered lapse in appropriations begins.
3.
Ensuring seamless payment
(a)
Obligation and disbursement
The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Transportation shall, for their respective covered employees, continue to incur obligations and disburse payments for covered pay and allowances as if appropriations had been enacted in a timely manner.
(b)
Availability of funds
Funds appropriated by this Act shall be immediately available and shall not be subject to any reduction or sequestration.
4.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
covered employee
means—
(A)
a member of the Armed Forces (as defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code), including reserve components, who performs active service during a covered lapse in appropriations; and
(B)
a civilian employee of the Federal Aviation Administration who is determined by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to be performing duties during a covered lapse in appropriations essential to the safe operation of the national airspace system, including air traffic controllers, safety inspectors, and operational support technicians;
(2)
the term
covered pay and allowances
means the pay, allowances, and benefits, including statutory bonuses and retired pay, to which a covered employee is entitled under law; and
(3)
the term
covered lapse in appropriations
means any period beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act during which appropriations are not available for any component of the Armed Forces or the Federal Aviation Administration.
