1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tren de Aragua Border Security Threat Assessment Act
.
2.
Homeland security border threat assessment on Tren de Aragua; strategic plan
(a)
Threat assessment
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the intelligence community and the heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies as the Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a border threat assessment regarding Tren de Aragua (in this section referred to as the
threat assessment
).
(2)
Elements
The threat assessment shall include the following:
(A)
An identification of current and potential criminal threats posed by members of Tren de Aragua and affiliates seeking to—
(i)
unlawfully enter the United States through the southwest, northern, or maritime border; or
(ii)
exploit any security vulnerabilities along the southwest, northern, or maritime border.
(B)
Descriptions of the following with respect to Tren de Aragua:
(i)
Origins.
(ii)
Strategic aims.
(iii)
Tactical methods.
(iv)
Funding sources.
(v)
Leadership structure.
(vi)
Chronological growth and presence in the United States.
(C)
Any other matters the Secretary of Homeland Security considers appropriate.
(3)
Form
The threat assessment shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(b)
Strategic plan
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the submission of the threat assessment under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies as the Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategic plan (in this subsection referred to as the
Strategic Plan
) relating to countering the threats identified in the threat assessment, in accordance with paragraph (2).
(2)
Contents
The Strategic Plan shall include, at a minimum, a consideration of the following:
(A)
The threat assessment, with an emphasis on efforts to mitigate the criminal threats from transnational criminal organizations, including the threats identified in the threat assessment in accordance with subsection (a)(2)(A).
(B)
Efforts to analyze and disseminate border security and border threat information between Department of Homeland Security border security components with the following:
(i)
Other appropriate Federal departments and agencies with missions associated with the southwest, northern, or maritime border.
(ii)
State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies with jurisdictions adjacent to the southwest, northern, or maritime border.
(C)
Efforts to locate, detect, interdict, and disrupt transnational criminal organizations, including Tren de Aragua.
(D)
Efforts to prevent transnational criminal organizations, including Tren de Aragua, from proliferating in the United States.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(2)
Intelligence community
The term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003(4)
).
