1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Garfield McConnell Langhorn was born on September 10, 1948, in Cumberland, Virginia, and grew up in Riverhead, New York, on Long Island.
(2)
Langhorn graduated from Riverside High School in 1967, and worked for Suffolk County before being drafted into the United States Army in 1968. Private First Class Langhorn was assigned as a radio operator with Troop C, 7th Squadron (Airmobile), 17th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Aviation Brigade, and deployed to Vietnam in November 1968.
(3)
On January 15, 1969, Langhorn’s unit was inserted near Plei Djereng, Pleiku Province, to rescue downed AH–1 Cobra helicopter pilots. After finding both pilots deceased, the unit came under heavy attack by North Vietnamese forces in heavily fortified positions. Amid intense combat and while surrounded, Langhorn radioed for urgent air support, coordinating minigun and rocket strikes from the gunships above, and provided covering fire from within the defensive perimeter.
(4)
As darkness fell and air support became ineffective, enemy soldiers began probing the perimeter. When an enemy grenade landed close to wounded comrades, Langhorn unhesitatingly threw himself on the grenade, scooped it beneath his body, and absorbed the blast. By sacrificing himself, he saved the lives of his comrades.
(5)
Private First Class Langhorn’s selfless act of valor, in giving his life to save his fellow soldiers, stands as a timeless example of courage and sacrifice that continues to inspire his community and our Nation.
2.
Name of Department of Veterans Affairs clinic, Bay Shore, New York
The Department of Veterans Affairs clinic located in Riverhead, New York, shall, after the date of the enactment of this Act, be known and designated as the
Private First Class Garfield M. Langhorn VA Clinic
. Any reference to such clinic in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a reference to the
Private First Class Garfield M. Langhorn VA Clinic
.
