1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Non-Essential Workers Transparency Act
.
2.
Reporting requirements
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means, with respect to an Executive agency—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives; and
(C)
any other committee of Congress with jurisdiction with respect to the Executive agency.
(2)
Covered employee
The term
covered employee
means an employee of an Executive agency who is furloughed (as defined in section 7511(a) of title 5, United States Code) during a covered period with respect to that Executive agency.
(3)
Covered period
The term
covered period
means, with respect to an Executive agency, a period beginning on the date which a lapse in appropriations with respect to such Executive agency begins and ending on the date on which such lapse in appropriation ends.
(4)
Executive agency
The term
Executive agency
has the meaning given the term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Requirements
Not later than 30 days after the date on which a covered period with respect to an Executive agency ends, the Under Secretary (or the equivalent) of that Executive agency shall electronically submit to the appropriate congressional committees with respect to that Executive agency a report that contains—
(1)
the total number of employees (including contract employees) employed by the Executive agency, as of the day before the day on which that covered period began;
(2)
the total amount expended by the Executive agency on salaries of employees during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which that covered period began;
(3)
the total number of employees of the Executive agency who were covered employees during that covered period;
(4)
the sum obtained by adding the annual rate of basic pay of each employee described in paragraph (3);
(5)
the total number of employees of the Executive agency who were not covered employees during that covered period; and
(6)
the sum obtained by adding the annual rate of basic pay of each employee described in paragraph (5).
(c)
Procedures
(1)
Classification
Each Executive agency submitting a report under subsection (b), or an update to such a report, shall submit that report or update in unclassified form, but that report or update may include a classified annex.
(2)
Publication
Not later than 30 days after the date on which an appropriate congressional committee receives a report submitted under subsection (b), that appropriate congressional committee shall publish the report on the website of the appropriate congressional committee.
(d)
Economic effect report
Not later than 30 days after the date on which a covered period ends, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall submit to Congress and make publicly available on a website of the Congressional Budget Office a report on the effects on the economy of the United States of the lapse in appropriations occurring during such covered period.
