1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Merger Agreement Approvals Clarity and Predictability Act
.
2.
GAO study on use of commitments and conditions in connection with insured depository institution merger applications
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States shall carry out a study on the use of commitments and conditions by Federal depository institution regulatory agencies in connection with insured depository institution merger applications. The study shall—
(1)
include an evaluation of relevant quantifiable metrics; and
(2)
review the extent to which the use of commitments and conditions has aligned with statutory requirements, including a review of whether the use of commitments and conditions has been influenced by extrastatutory issues or considerations.
(b)
Report
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall issue a report to Congress containing all findings and determinations made in carrying out the study required under subsection (a).
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Application
The term
application
means an application, notice, or other similar request for permission submitted to a Federal depository institution regulatory agency.
(2)
Federal depository institution regulatory agency
The term
Federal depository institution regulatory agency
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration Board.
(3)
Insured depository institution
The term
insured depository institution
—
(A)
has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813
); and
(B)
means an insured credit union, as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752
).
(4)
Insured depository institution merger application
The term
insured depository institution merger application
means an application with respect to the acquisition of an insured depository institution, its equity interests, its assets, or its deposits under—
(A)
section 10(e) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (
12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)
);
(B)
section 205(b) of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1785(b)
);
(C)
section 7(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1817(j)
);
(D)
section 18(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(2)
);
(E)
section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (
12 U.S.C. 1842
); and
(F)
section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (
12 U.S.C. 1843
).
