1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Credentialing Integration Act of 2025
.
2.
Joint uniform credentialing and privileging system for medical providers at the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Domestic Policy Council, shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the medical provider credentialing and privileging systems in use by each Department. Such report shall include each of the following:
(1)
A description of the scope and scale of each system.
(2)
A description of the type of data stored on each system.
(3)
A description of the portability of provider credentialing and privileging information under each system.
(4)
A description of the interoperability between provider credentialing systems.
(5)
A description of the risk management system, adverse actions, and governance of each system.
(6)
A description of the limitations and gaps in the interoperability and administration of each system.
(7)
Recommendations for scaling each system and addressing gaps in the interoperability and administration of such system, with the goal of achieving a single, uniform system to be used by both Departments.
(b)
Selection
Not later than January 1, 2027, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Domestic Policy Council, shall jointly select one system from the systems in use by the Departments to serve as the joint uniform credentialing and privileging system for both the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Capability of system
The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that such joint uniform credentialing and privileging system has the capability to import and share provider credentialing and privileging information.
(d)
Certification of implementation
Not later than January 1, 2028, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a written certificate that such joint uniform credentialing and privileging system has been implemented and is operational.
