1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Donald J. Trump Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
In October 2025, President Donald J. Trump negotiated and secured a historic peace agreement between the State of Israel and Hamas.
(2)
This agreement brought an end to longstanding hostilities, normalized diplomatic relations, and laid a foundation for regional stability, economic cooperation, and mutual recognition.
(3)
President Trump’s diplomatic efforts, perseverance, and vision contributed significantly to an unprecedented breakthrough in Middle East peace efforts.
(4)
The October 2025 Peace Agreement has been internationally recognized as a major advancement in global diplomacy and U.S. leadership in conflict resolution.
(5)
President Trump has negotiated peace throughout the world.
(A)
On August 8, 2025, Armenia and Azerbaijan and President Trump signed a peace agreement at the White House ending a decades-long war.
(B)
On June 20, 2025, President Trump announced a peace agreement between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda, crediting Secretary of State Marco Rubio for helping to bring them together.
(C)
On June 23, 2025, President Trump announced he had negotiated a ceasefire between Iran and Israel.
(D)
On May 12, 2025, after U.S. led talks, President Trump announced that India and Pakistan had reached a ceasefire after an intensifying military confrontation.
(E)
On July 28, 2025, leaders of Cambodia and Thailand agreed to a ceasefire after five deadly days of fighting. President Trump leveraged trade deals with the United States to ensure this ceasefire was negotiated and agreed upon.
(F)
On June 15, 2025, President Trump brokered a deal between Egypt and Ethiopia to pause a conflict over the effects of a dam on the Nile River.
(G)
In his first term, President Trump negotiated an economic normalization between Kosovo and Serbia.
(6)
The Congress recognizes the importance of honoring such exceptional achievement in foreign policy and peacemaking.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration to President Donald J. Trump, in recognition of his extraordinary peacemaking efforts throughout the world and in facilitating the Trump peace agreement to end the war in Gaza and bring lasting peace to the Middle East.
(b)
Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under this Act shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
