1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Integrated Cross-Border Law Enforcement Operations Expansion Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security should seek to utilize the authorities granted in this legislation to, among other things, negotiate or amend existing agreements with the Government of Canada, as appropriate, for integrated cross-border aerial, maritime, and land law enforcement operations.
3.
International law enforcement cooperation
(a)
Amendments to the tariff act of 1930
Part V of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1581 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
in section 629(g), by adding after the period at the end the following:
The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may enter into a treaty or agreement with any foreign country to extend to an officer of such country that is designated as an officer of the Customs Service pursuant to section 401(i) of this Act the same privileges and immunities as an officer of the Customs Service with respect to any actions taken by the designated person in the performance of such duties.
; and
(2)
by inserting after section 629 the following new section:
629A.
Operations in foreign countries and support to foreign authorities
The Secretary of Homeland Security may use funds appropriated or otherwise available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection for operations and support to pay a tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such claim when arises in a foreign country in connection with U.S. Customs and Border Protection operations.
.
(b)
Amendment to the homeland security act
Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
890E.
Stationing of foreign law enforcement officials and other personnel
The Secretary or the Attorney General, or both as appropriate, may station or deploy United States law enforcement officers and associated personnel in a foreign country, and may accept the stationing or deployment of foreign law enforcement officials and other persons assigned by a foreign government in the United States, for the purpose of enhancing border security or law enforcement cooperation or operations, including for purposes of conducting joint operations in the land, air, and maritime domain, with that country. The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary or the Attorney General, or both as appropriate, may enter into treaties or agreements with any foreign country to extend to foreign law enforcement officials and other persons assigned by the foreign government who are stationed in the United States such privileges and immunities as are necessary to carry out their functions.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 890D the following:
Sec. 890E. Stationing of foreign law enforcement officials and other personnel.
.
