1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disabling Enemy Flight Entry and Neutralizing Suspect Equipment Act
or the
DEFENSE Act
.
2.
Drone countermeasures to protect events
Section 210G of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 124n
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(m)
Stadium security
(1)
In general
The Secretary or the Attorney General may deputize a State or local law enforcement officer to exercise the authority granted by subsection (a), except that the authority is granted solely for the purpose of protecting—
(A)
a site with respect to which a flight restriction is maintained pursuant to section 521 of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (
49 U.S.C. 40103
note);
(B)
the location of an eligible large public gathering described in section 44812(c) of title 49, United States Code; or
(C)
a public gathering otherwise protected by a temporary flight restriction, at the discretion of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under the authority of section 40103(b) of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Training required
The Secretary or the Attorney General may deputize only a State or local law enforcement officer that has completed training in the use of the authority described in paragraph (1), as specified by the Secretary or Attorney General in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(3)
Oversight
The Secretary or the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall exercise oversight of the use of the authority described in paragraph (1) by a deputized State or local law enforcement officer.
(4)
Authorized equipment
Equipment authorized for unmanned aircraft system detection, identification, monitoring, or tracking under this subsection shall be limited to systems or technologies that are included on a list of authorized equipment maintained by the Department, in coordination with the Department of Justice, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
.
