1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Free Iraq from Iran Act
.
2.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to support the people of Iraq in their desire to liberate their country from the malign influence of Iran and its puppet militias and to support democracy, rule of law, and human rights in Iraq.
3.
Interagency strategy to free Iraq from Iran
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of the Treasury, and the CEO of the U.S. Agency for Global Media, shall develop and submit to Congress a strategy to support the efforts of the Iraqi people in countering Iran in Iraq and countering Iranian backed puppet militias in Iraq.
(b)
Elements
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
A description of efforts to irreversibly dismantle all Iran-backed puppet militias in Iraq, including but not limited to the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF), and end Iran’s dominance of Iraq’s political system.
(2)
A description of efforts to cease U.S. security assistance to the Federal Government of Iraq, unless (A) All Iran-backed militias including but not limited to the PMF are dismantled, (B) Iraq ceases its support for terrorism including its sponsorship and support of Iran backed puppet militias, (C) Iran backed puppet militias including the PMF are no longer part of the Ministry of Interior of the Federal Government of Iraq nor any other organ of the Federal Government of Iraq, (D) Iran backed puppet militias and their political parties no longer maintain direct or indirect control of Iraqi government ministries.
(3)
A description of efforts to support Iraqi civil society against Iran and its puppet militias including:
(A)
A description of how the Intelligence Community will—
(i)
use intelligence-gathering capabilities to monitor and expose the Iranian regime and its puppet militias in Iraq’s efforts to suppress dissent and target protestors;
(ii)
provide support to Iraqi civil society actors and opposition groups to enhance their security and operational capabilities; and
(iii)
assist in identifying and countering disinformation campaigns initiated by the Iranian regime and its puppet militias in Iraq to delegitimize democratic movements.
(B)
A description of how the United States Agency for Global Media (USAGM) will—
(i)
expand and enhance broadcasting efforts in Iraq with a focus on the Federal Government of Iraq’s support of Iranian backed puppet militias and Iranian backed terrorist organizations as well as programming regarding the war crimes and corruption of Iranian backed puppet militias in Iraq;
(ii)
utilize social media platforms to expose and highlight the Iranian regime and Iran backed puppet militia’s crimes against the people of Iraq, including human rights abuses, corruption, and acts of violence against protestors; and
(iii)
support independent Iraqi journalists and media outlets in their efforts to report freely and counter the regime’s propaganda.
(C)
A plan for ensuring coordination between relevant agencies, including the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Intelligence Community, and USAGM, to ensure a comprehensive and unified approach in supporting the Iraqi people’s pursuit of independence from domination by the regime in Iran and its puppet militias in Iraq.
(c)
Form
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form.
(d)
Implementation plan
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the strategy required by subsection (a) is developed, the task force shall submit to Congress a plan for implementing the strategy.
4.
Designation of the Iran’s puppet militias in Iraq as terrorist organizations
(a)
Designation as FTO
No later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall designate as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189a
) each of the following:
(1)
Abu Fadl al-Abbas Brigades.
(2)
Badr Corps.
(3)
Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba.
(4)
The Popular Mobilization Forces (Al-Hashd al-Sha’bi).
(5)
Kata’ib al-Imam Ali.
(6)
Kata’ib Jund al-Imam.
(7)
Kata’ib Sayyid al-Shuhada.
(8)
Sarraya al-Jihad.
(9)
Sarraya al-Khorasani.
(10)
The Islamic Resistance of Iraq.
(11)
Any foreign entity or organization that is an agent of, affiliated with, or owned or controlled by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
5.
Funding limitation of iranian backed puppet militias in Iraq
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal department or agency, including the Department of State and the Department of Defense, may obligate or expend any Federal funds to support, directly or indirectly, any militia or organization described in subsection (4)(a) of this Act, or any person who is a member of such militia or organization.
6.
Prohibition of security assistance to the Federal Government of Iraq
(a)
Prohibition
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal department or agency, including the Department of State and the Department of Defense, may obligate or expend any Federal funds to the Federal Government of Iraq.
(b)
Waiver
The prohibition described in subsection (a) may be waived if the President certifies that Iraq is no longer supporting or sponsoring Iranian backed puppet militia or if the President certifies that Iraq is taking significant demonstrated steps to remove Iranian backed puppet militias from its security forces and the President certifies that the waiver is in the national security interest of the United States.
(c)
Annual review
Iraq’s support to Iranian backed puppet militias shall be reviewed annually by the Department of Defense annually in accordance with this section, in addition the prohibition in subsection(a) shall be reviewed annually by the Department of Defense to ensure the funds prohibited do not compromise the national security interests of the United States or Iraq.
7.
Sanctions on agents and facilitators of iranian backed puppet militias destabilizing Iraq
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Treasury shall issue a report describing Iran’s puppets in Iraq including political figures, members of the judiciary, puppet militias, financiers, and facilitators of Iran and its puppet militias in Iraq.
(b)
Matters To be included
The Secretary of the Treasury shall include former Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, Al-Rafidain Bank, the State Organization for Marketing of Oil in Iraq, Badr Corps leader Hadi al-Ameri, Iraqi National Security Adviser Qais al-Araji, Iraqi Military Chief of Staff Abdul Rashid Yar Allah, and Iraqi Federal Supreme Court President Jassem Abboud as part of the report described in subsection (a).
(c)
Sanctions
The Secretary of Treasury shall impose sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13438 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property of certain persons who threaten stabilization efforts in Iraq) on all persons described in the report described in subsection(a).
(d)
Form
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex if necessary.
8.
Prohibition on the importation of liquefied natural gas by the Federal Government of Iraq from the Government of Iran
Notwithstanding any other provision of law the Secretary of Treasury shall impose sanctions prohibiting the Government of Iraq or any private entity within Iraq from importing liquefied natural gas from the Government of Iran or any private entity within Iran.
