1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Resources Of Taxpayers to Eliminate Childhood Transgender Surgeries Act of 2025
or the
PROTECTS Act of 2025
.
2.
Prohibiting Federal funds from being used to provide certain gender transition procedures to minors
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be used or otherwise made available to provide or refer for a specified gender transition procedure to an individual under the age of 18 or to reimburse any entity for providing such a procedure to such an individual.
(b)
Specified gender transition procedure defined
(1)
In general
For purposes of this paragraph, except as provided in paragraph (2), the term
specified gender transition procedure
means, with respect to an individual, any of the following when performed for the purpose of intentionally changing the body of such individual to no longer correspond to their sex:
(A)
Performing any surgery, including—
(i)
castration;
(ii)
orchiectomy;
(iii)
scrotoplasty;
(iv)
vasectomy;
(v)
hysterectomy;
(vi)
oophorectomy;
(vii)
ovariectomy;
(viii)
metoidioplasty;
(ix)
penectomy;
(x)
phalloplasty;
(xi)
vaginoplasty;
(xii)
vaginectomy;
(xiii)
vulvoplasty;
(xiv)
reduction thyrochondroplasty;
(xv)
chondrolaryngoplasty;
(xvi)
mastectomy; and
(xvii)
any plastic, cosmetic, or aesthetic surgery that feminizes or masculinizes the facial or other body features of an individual.
(B)
Any placement of chest implants to create feminine breasts.
(C)
Any placement of fat or artificial implants in the gluteal region.
(D)
Administering, supplying, prescribing, dispensing, distributing, or otherwise conveying to an individual medications, including—
(i)
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues or other puberty-blocking drugs to stop or delay normal puberty; and
(ii)
testosterone, estrogen, or other androgens to an individual at doses that are supraphysiologic than would normally be produced endogenously in a healthy individual of the same age and sex.
(2)
Exception
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the following when furnished to an individual by a health care provider with the consent of such individual’s parent or legal guardian:
(A)
Puberty suppression or blocking prescription drugs for the purpose of normalizing puberty for an individual experiencing precocious puberty.
(B)
Appropriate and medically necessary procedures or treatments to correct for—
(i)
a medically verifiable genetic disorder of sex development, including—
(I)
46,XX chromosomes with virilization;
(II)
46,XY chromosomes with undervirilization; and
(III)
both ovarian and testicular tissue;
(ii)
sex chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production, or sex hormone action, if determined to be abnormal by a physician through genetic or biochemical testing; or
(iii)
infection, disease, injury, or disorder caused or exacerbated by a previous procedure described in paragraph (1), or a physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by a physician, place the individual in imminent danger of death or impairment of a major bodily function unless the procedure is performed, not including procedures performed for the alleviation of mental distress.
(3)
Certain terms
For purposes of this section:
(A)
Sex
The term
sex
, when referring to individual’s sex, shall be understood to refer to either male or female, as biologically determined.
(B)
Female
The term
female
, when referring to a natural person, means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes eggs for fertilization.
(C)
Male
The term
male
, when referring to a natural person, means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes sperm for fertilization.
