1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keeping Public Lands Out of Adversarial Hands Act
.
2.
Inclusion of the Secretary of the Interior on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and consideration of certain land or resource transactions
(a)
Inclusion on the committee
Section 721(k) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4565(k)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Inclusion of the Secretary of the Interior
The Secretary of the Interior shall be a member of the Committee with respect to a covered transaction that involves land or resources adjacent to land or sites owned or managed by—
(A)
the Bureau of Land Management;
(B)
the Bureau of Reclamation;
(C)
the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
(D)
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management;
(E)
the National Park Service; and
(F)
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
.
(b)
Consideration of certain land or resource transactions
Section 721(b)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(I)
Consideration of certain land or resource transactions
(i)
In general
After receiving notification from the Secretary of the Interior of a reportable land or resource transaction, the Committee shall determine—
(I)
whether the transaction is a covered transaction; and
(II)
if the Committee determines that the transaction is a covered transaction, whether the Committee should initiate a review pursuant to subparagraph (D), or take another action authorized under this section, with respect to the reportable land or resource transaction.
(ii)
Reportable land or resource transaction
In this subparagraph, the term
reportable land or resource transaction
means a transaction—
(I)
that the Secretary of the Interior has reason to believe is a covered transaction; and
(II)
that involves the acquisition of an interest in land or resource by a foreign person of the People’s Republic of China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(iii)
Sunset
The requirements under this subparagraph shall terminate, with respect to a foreign person of the respective foreign country, on the date that the People’s Republic of China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran, as the case may be, is removed from the list of foreign adversaries in section 791.4 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
.
