1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Social Security for Americans Reform Act of 2025
or the
SSA Reform Act of 2025
.
2.
Notification to Social Security Administration regarding changes in status under the immigration laws
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Commissioner of Social Security not later than 180 days after there is a change to the citizenship status, status under the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
)), or work authorization status of an individual to whom a social security account number has been issued.
3.
Report
Beginning on the date that is one year after the date of enactment of this Act, and on an annual basis thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Commissioner of Social Security shall jointly submit to Congress a report that includes, for the previous 1-year period, the following:
(1)
The number of notifications under section 2 related to—
(A)
changes in citizenship status;
(B)
changes in status under the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
)); and
(C)
changes in work authorization status.
(2)
The average amount of time it took the Secretary to notify the Commissioner after a status change.
(3)
Any challenges or barriers faced during the notification process and recommendations for improving the notification process.
(4)
The effectiveness of the notifications in preventing fraud and misuse of social security account numbers, including data on any fraudulent activities detected as a result of, or in part because of, the notifications, and any corrective actions taken.
(5)
The coordination between the Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration, detailing—
(A)
how data is shared, managed, and secured; and
(B)
best practices, areas for improvement, and the impact of data sharing on service efficiency.
4.
Limitation of benefits under the Social Security Act
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any provision of the Social Security Act or title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.
), for any month in which an individual is not a citizen or national of the United States, such individual shall not be entitled to any benefit described in subsection (b).
(b)
Benefits
A benefit described in this subsection is—
(1)
an old-age, survivors, or disability insurance benefit under title II of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.
);
(2)
benefits under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
);
(3)
benefits under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
);
(4)
benefits under a State child health plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XXI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.
);
(5)
supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.
), including supplementary payments of the type described in section 1616(a) of such Act and payments pursuant to an agreement entered into under section 212(a) of
Public Law 93–66
);
(6)
assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
); or
(7)
any other benefit administered by the Social Security Administration.
