1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Agricultural Spaces Through Effective Ranching Strategies Act
or the
PASTURES Act
.
2.
Limitation on penalties for grazing livestock on certain covered lands
(a)
Limitation
The Secretary concerned may not impose a penalty on an owner of livestock for grazing by such livestock on covered lands on which a fence for the prevention of such grazing does not exist.
(b)
Fence expenses
The Secretary concerned shall be responsible for any expense related to the construction or maintenance of any fence constructed or maintained on covered lands for the prevention of grazing by livestock on such covered lands.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered lands
The term
covered lands
means National Forest System lands, lands administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or public lands—
(A)
on which grazing is permitted by grazing permit or lease on or after the date of enactment of this Act and subsequently prohibited; and
(B)
that borders private property.
(2)
Grazing permit or lease
The term
grazing permit or lease
means—
(A)
a grazing permit as such term is defined in section 222.1 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations);
(B)
a cooperative agreement referred to in section 29.2 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations) that permits grazing; or
(C)
a grazing permit or lease described in section 4130.2 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).
(3)
Livestock
The term
livestock
includes cattle, bison, horses, sheep, and goats.
(4)
National Forest System
The term
National Forest System
has the meaning given the term in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (
16 U.S.C. 1609
).
(5)
Public lands
The term
public lands
has the meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1702
).
(6)
Secretary concerned
The term
Secretary concerned
means—
(A)
the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System lands; and
(B)
the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to public lands and lands administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
