1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Antisemitism in Education Act
.
2.
Discrimination motivated by antisemitism
(a)
In general
As a condition of receiving Federal funds, any public elementary school, public secondary school, or institution of higher education that receives Federal funds shall be required to treat discrimination by students or employees, and discrimination resulting from the institutional policies of such school or institution, that is motivated by antisemitism in an identical manner to how such school or institution treats discrimination motivated by race.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed as—
(1)
diminishing or infringing upon any right protected under the First Amendment to the Constitution; or
(2)
preempting State antidiscrimination laws.
(c)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
Antisemitism
(A)
In general
The term
antisemitism
means a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred towards Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed towards Jewish or non-Jewish individuals or their property or towards Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.
(B)
Examples
The term
antisemitism
includes the following examples of behavior:
(i)
Calling for, aiding, or justifying the killing or harming of Jews, often in the name of a radical ideology or an extremist view of religion.
(ii)
Making mendacious, dehumanizing, demonizing, or stereotypical allegations about Jews as such or the power of Jews as a collective, especially, but not exclusively, allegations regarding the myth about a world Jewish conspiracy or of Jews controlling the media, economy, government or other societal institutions.
(iii)
Accusing Jews as a people of being responsible for real or imagined wrongdoing committed by a Jewish person or group, Israel, or for acts committed by a non-Jewish individual.
(iv)
Accusing Jews as a people or Israel of inventing or exaggerating the Holocaust.
(v)
Accusing Jewish citizens of being more loyal to Israel, or the alleged priorities of Jews worldwide, than to the interests of their country of citizenship.
(vi)
Demonizing Israel by using the symbols and images associated with classic antisemitism to characterize Israel or Israelis, drawing comparisons of contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis, or blaming Israel for all interreligious or political tensions.
(vii)
Applying a double standard to Israel by requiring behavior of Israel that is not expected or demanded of any other democratic country, or focusing peace or human rights investigations only on Israel.
(viii)
Delegitimizing Israel by denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination and denying Israel the right to exist.
(C)
Exception
The term
antisemitism
does not include criticism of Israel that is similar to criticism towards any other country.
(2)
ESEA Terms
The terms
elementary school
,
institution of higher education
, and
secondary school
have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
