1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sovereign States Emergency Management Act
.
2.
Abolishment of FEMA
(a)
Abolishment
The Federal Emergency Management Agency is abolished effective on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Unobligated funds
Any funds made available to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency that are unobligated on the abolishment date described in subsection (a) shall be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury and made available to carry out the program established under section 2.
(c)
Transfer of functions
All functions that immediately before the abolishment date specified in subsection (a) are authorized to be performed by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, any other officer or employee of the Agency acting in that capacity, or any agency or office of the Agency, are transferred to the President effective on such abolishment date.
(d)
Personnel and assets
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, so much of the personnel, property, and records employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with a function transferred to the President under subsection (c) shall be available to the President, at such time or times as the President directs for use in connection with the functions transferred.
(e)
References
Any reference in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of or pertaining to the Federal Emergency Management Agency—
(1)
to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is deemed to refer to the President; or
(2)
to the Federal Emergency Management Agency is deemed to refer to the Executive Office of the President.
3.
Disaster relief block grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish a program to provide grants to States for natural disaster and emergency relief.
(b)
Grant terms
(1)
In general
In carrying out the program established under this section, the Secretary shall provide a grant to each State in an amount determined in accordance with the formula established pursuant to paragraph (2).
(2)
Allocation of funds
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall, by rule, establish a formula for the allocation of grant funds to each State under this section.
(B)
Considerations
In establishing the formula under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider the following:
(i)
Population size.
(ii)
Historical disaster frequency and severity during the 20-year period preceding the date of enactment of this Act.
(iii)
Geographic risk factors (such as seismic zones, flood plains, hurricane-prone areas).
(iv)
Economic need, as determined by per capita income.
(3)
Use of funds
A State may use a grant provided under this section to carry out—
(A)
disaster preparedness training and acquire and maintain related equipment;
(B)
response and recovery operations following a natural disaster or emergency; and
(C)
mitigation projects to reduce future disaster risks.
(4)
Administrative costs
A State may use not more than 5 percent of the amount allocated to such State under this subsection for administrative costs.
(5)
Allocation
The Secretary may not allocate grant funds to a State for a fiscal year under this section unless and until the Secretary, pursuant to subsection (c), approves the emergency management plan submitted by such State for such fiscal year.
(c)
State emergency management plans
Not later than April 1 of each year, each State shall develop and submit for approval by the Secretary an emergency management plan for the fiscal year beginning on October 1 of such year, and such plan shall include—
(1)
a description of how the State intends to use funds allocated under this section;
(2)
documentation of coordination between the State, local governments, and Tribal authorities in developing and implementing such emergency management plan; and
(3)
measurable goals for disaster preparedness and response.
(d)
Reports
Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, each State shall submit to the Secretary a report describing—
(1)
how funds allocated under this section were used during the preceding fiscal year;
(2)
outcomes achieved with such funds, including improvements in preparedness metrics, response times, and completed mitigation projects; and
(3)
the extent to which the State complied with the emergency management plan developed under subsection (c).
(e)
Duplication of benefits
The Secretary shall ensure that no State receives a grant under this section if such State receives assistance from any other Federal source for the same purposes for which such a grant may be used.
(f)
Audit
Not less frequently than annually, the Secretary shall conduct an audit of the program established under this section and submit a report thereon to the Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, Homeland Security, and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(g)
Administrative and audit expenses
Of the amounts made available to carry out this section, 10 percent shall be for expenses related to administering the program established under this section and 10 percent shall be for expenses related to carrying out the audit of such program required under subsection (f).
(h)
Termination
The program established under this section shall terminate on the date that is 4 years after the date on which the Secretary issues the rule required by subsection (b)(2).
(i)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Emergency
The term
emergency
means an occasion or instance for which assistance is needed to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in any part of a State.
(2)
Natural disaster
The term
natural disaster
means any natural catastrophe (including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water, winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought), or, regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of a State, for which assistance is needed to alleviate the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby.
(3)
State
The term
State
any of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
