1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trusted Importer and Competitive Manufacturing Act of 2025
.
2.
Establishment of trusted importer program
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall establish a program to certify an importer as a
Trusted Importer
(hereinafter the
certification program
) based on the following criteria:
(1)
Compliance with applicable trade and customs laws.
(2)
Supply chain security and internal controls.
(3)
Financial solvency and operational capacity.
(4)
Promotion of manufacturing competitiveness of the United States.
(b)
Issuance of general import license
Upon certification under subsection (a), the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the United States Trade Representative, shall issue a Trusted Importer a
general import license
to pay reduced or waived tariffs or other duties on each article determined under subsection (d).
(c)
Duration and renewal of license
A general import license shall be valid for 10 years and may be renewed by a Trusted Importer for a successive 10-year period upon demonstration of continued compliance with the certification program.
(d)
Tariff authority
(1)
In general
Except as provided under paragraph (3), the President, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative, shall reduce or waive tariffs or other duties on any article imported by a Trusted Importer, based on the criteria under paragraph (2), to strengthen the United States economy to the maximum extent practical.
(2)
Criteria
In determining such reductions, the President shall consider the—
(A)
competitiveness of United States manufacturers;
(B)
protection of domestic supply chains; and
(C)
promotion of new market access for articles originating in the United States.
(3)
Exceptions
The President may not reduce or waive a tariff or duty—
(A)
imposed pursuant to—
(i)
a countervailing duty or antidumping duty order under Title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1653 et seq.
); or
(ii)
an investigation under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2251
);
(B)
imposed before January 1, 2025; or
(C)
to amount below that set forth in column 1 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(e)
Coordination
The Secretary of Commerce shall coordinate with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to ensure proper reporting, verification, and enforcement of the certification program.
(f)
Revocation
The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, may revoke or suspend a license for—
(1)
failure to maintain compliance with the certification program;
(2)
knowingly or negligently submitting materially false or misleading information; or
(3)
conduct undermining the integrity of the certification program, including—
(A)
fraud, misrepresentation, or concealment of a material fact in connection with the application for, or use of, a general import license;
(B)
willful or repeated violations of any—
(i)
United States customs or trade laws; or
(ii)
Regulation administered by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the Secretary of Commerce;
(C)
failure to maintain or produce any record as required under this Act or under any regulation issued pursuant to this Act;
(D)
facilitation of smuggling, unlawful transshipment, diversion of goods, or any other act that materially threatens public safety, national security, or the integrity of the United States supply chain; or
(E)
a demonstrated pattern of abuse or gross negligence in complying with the requirements of this Act or regulations issued pursuant to this Act.
(g)
Foreign entity of concern restrictions
An entity is ineligible to apply for the certification program and receive a general import license if it is—
(1)
a Prohibited Foreign Entity (as such term is defined in section 70512 of
Public Law 119–21
(commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act
)), including entities with substantial ownership, control, or influence by specified foreign entities of concern; or
(2)
engaged in activities detrimental to United States national security, including transactions with any such Prohibited Foreign Entity.
(h)
Directed rulemaking
The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall issue such regulations as are necessary to implement this section, including procedures to apply for a general import license, review and appeal the denial of a general import license, and renew and repeal a general import license.
(i)
Reporting
Not later than two years after enactment of this Act, and every two years thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall report to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate on the—
(1)
licenses issued, renewed, or revoked under the certification program;
(2)
volume and value of articles imported under a general import license;
(3)
compliance and enforcement actions under the certification program; and
(4)
impact of the certification program on manufacturing competitiveness of the United States, including the potential impacts and harm to domestic manufacturing.
(j)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit, restrict, or otherwise affect the authority of the President to impose, modify, or maintain any duty, tariff, import restriction, or other trade measure under any provision of law.
(k)
Applicability
This Act shall apply to with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
