1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Contracting America First Act
.
2.
Prohibition on certain Federal contracts
(a)
Prohibition
The head of an agency may not enter into, renew, or extend a contract for a covered software system with an internationally owned software company.
(b)
Certification requirements
The head of an agency shall require any contract related to a covered software system to require an offeror to such contract to certify, under penalty of perjury, that the offeror is not an internationally owned software company.
(c)
Waiver authority
The head of an agency may waive the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) on a case-by-case basis if the head of the agency determines that the waiver is necessary in the interest of national security and submits a written justification for the waiver to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after granting the waiver.
(d)
Contract termination
Upon determination by the head of an agency that a contractor has violated subsection (a) or knowingly provided a false certification under subsection (b), the head of the agency may terminate the contract for default or for convenience, as appropriate, and may pursue any other remedies available under the contract or law, including debarment or suspension from future Federal contracting.
(e)
Update of FAR
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be amended to implement this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term
executive agency
in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.
(2)
Covered software system
The term
covered software system
means a software system that stores, processes, or provides access to sensitive personal information of 500 or more employees or officers of the Federal Government.
(3)
Internationally owned software company
The term
internationally owned software company
means a company, or any subsidiary of a company, that has a majority ownership held by individuals who are not United States citizens.
(4)
Sensitive personal information
The term
sensitive personal information
means any of the following:
(A)
Social Security number.
(B)
Medical or health record.
(C)
Personal identifiable information.
(D)
Any other information that, if compromised, could reasonably be expected to result in identity theft, personal harm, or national security risk.
