1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Aliens From Evading Driving Laws Act
or the
SAFE Driving Laws Act
.
2.
Withholding of certain highway funding for States that issuance of drivers licenses to individuals who are not citizens or lawful permanent residents
(a)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
180.
Issuance of drivers licenses to individuals who do not have proof of citizenship or lawful permanent residence
(a)
Withholding of funds for noncompliance
The Secretary shall withhold 50 percent of the amount required to be apportioned to any State under paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 104(b) on the first day of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2027 if the State is not in compliance with subsection (b) as of such day.
(b)
State actions
To be in compliance with this subsection, a State—
(1)
shall have in effect a law prohibiting the issuance of a drivers license or a commercial drivers license to an individual who does not have proof of United States citizenship or lawful permanent residence in the United States; and
(2)
may not prohibit or restrict a local or State government entity or official from collecting or sending to or receiving from the Department of Homeland Security immigration enforcement information.
(c)
Public database
The Secretary Transportation and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security shall—
(1)
determine whether each State is in compliance with this subsection (b); and
(2)
maintain a database that is publicly available on a website of each such Secretary of the status of compliance of each State with the requirements of such subsection.
(d)
Definition of immigration enforcement information
In this section, the term
immigration enforcement information
means—
(1)
information relating to the citizenship or immigration status of any individual; and
(2)
the date, time, and location of the release of any individual from detention, jail, or a prison facility.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The analysis for
chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
180. Issuance of drivers licenses to individuals who do not
have proof of citizenship or lawful permanent residence.
.
