1.
Funding shortfalls in certain administrations of the Department of Veterans Affairs: review; report
(a)
GAO review
(1)
Review required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall begin a review regarding the circumstances surrounding, and the causes of—
(A)
the shortfall in the funding of the Veterans Benefits Administration for fiscal year 2024; and
(B)
the expected shortfall in the funding of the Veterans Health Administration in fiscal year 2025.
(2)
Elements
The review under this subsection shall include the following elements:
(A)
A comparison of monthly obligations and expenditures in relevant accounts against the spending plan of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(B)
Any transfers between accounts described in subparagraph (A).
(C)
The reasons for any significant diversions of obligations or expenditures from such spending plan.
(D)
An analysis of the accuracy of any projections or estimates relevant to diversions described in subparagraph (C).
(E)
Remedial actions the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may take—
(i)
to improve the accuracy of supporting information submitted under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, with respect to the Department; and
(ii)
to prevent funding shortfalls for the Department.
(3)
Report
Not later than 30 days after completing such review, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a written report containing the results and findings of such review.
(b)
Report of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Not later than 30 days after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives the report of the Comptroller General under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit such report to the appropriate congressional committees.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate; and
(2)
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
