1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Warrior Road Act
.
2.
Civil defense
Section 310 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking
to consult, from time to time, with the Federal Civil Defense Administrator relative to the civil defense aspects of highways so constructed or reconstructed
and inserting
to develop a priority listing containing the 3 highest priority projects from each State relative to the civil defense aspects of highways so constructed or reconstructed. At least every 2 years, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to consider whether to update such listing or to reprioritize projects. The Secretary shall submit each listing, and any update carried out pursuant to this section, in an electronic format to each Member of Congress
.
3.
Report on highway improvement projects that promote national defense
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of War, shall submit to Congress, including in an electronic format to each Member of Congress, a report that contains a list of highway improvement projects that—
(1)
would promote national defense consistent with the core purposes of highway funding; and
(2)
are designated as important to national defense pursuant to section 210 of title 23, United States Code.
(b)
Highest priority projects in each State
The list compiled pursuant to subsection (a) shall include not less than 3 of the highest priority projects in each State.
4.
Prioritizing funding for national defense
(a)
Discretionary grants
In awarding discretionary grants under title 23, United States Code, the Secretary of Transportation shall give priority to projects designated as important to national defense pursuant to section 210 of title 23, United States Code, and projects designated under section 311 of title 23, United States Code.
(b)
Apportionment funds
To be eligible for disbursement of funds under section 104 of title 23, United States Code, a State or metropolitan planning organization shall ensure that such State or organization will give priority to projects designated as important to national defense pursuant to section 210 of title 23, United States Code, and projects designated under section 311 of title 23, United States Code.
5.
Definition of State
The term
State
has the meaning given the term in section 101 of title 23, United States Code.
