1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Somalia Immigration Moratorium Act
.
2.
Findings and purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
It is the purpose of the United States Government to guarantee survival and safety of the United States as an independent, sovereign republic whose government secures the God-given natural rights of its citizens and prioritizes their wellbeing and interests.
(2)
The United States Government reserves the sovereign right to admit or deny entry into the United States any foreign person.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to establish a moratorium on immigration concerning citizens and nationals of Somalia.
3.
Prohibition on immigration relief for certain citizens or nationals of Somalia
(a)
In general
Section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)
) is amended by inserting at the end the following:
(11)
Nationals of somalia
(A)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in subparagraph (B), no alien may be issued a visa or provided any status under the immigration laws, until 25 years following the date of enactment of the Somalia Immigration Moratorium Act.
(B)
Exceptions
Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the following:
(i)
Any alien lawfully admitted to the United States prior to the date of enactment of Somalia Immigration Moratorium Act.
(ii)
Any lawful permanent resident of the United States.
(iii)
Any alien traveling with valid nonimmigrant visa in the following classifications: A–1, A–2, C–2, C–3, G–1, G–2, G–3, or G–4.
These exceptions shall be made by only the Secretary of State or his or her designee, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security or his or her designee.
.
(b)
Ineligibility for relief
Section 241(b)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1231(b)(3)
) is amended by inserting at the end the following:
(D)
Ineligibility for relief
Any alien who is a citizen or national of Somalia.
.
4.
Severability
If any provision of this Act, an amendment by this Act, or the application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, the amendments made by this Act, and the application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.
