1.
Designation of the National Memorial Day Parade in recognition of America’s fallen heroes
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
At the start of World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and General George Marshall reviewed a National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC, on May 30, 1942. This parade was not renewed for the next 62 years.
(2)
On May 31, 2004, American Veterans Center continued the tradition with a National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC.
(3)
Every year since 2004, the National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC, provides the largest Memorial Day event in the United States, drawing hundreds of thousands of participants and spectators to DC, and has been broadcasted to over one hundred million homes nationwide, and worldwide on American Forces Network.
(4)
The National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC, represents a timeline of American history, spotlighting our shared story through historical re-enactors, veterans, active-duty personnel, and musical performers, live on Constitution Avenue and from historic sites around the country.
(5)
The National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC, enhances the knowledge of the American people on the importance of commemorating Memorial Day, and ensures that all future generations understand the sacrifices made to preserve freedom, democracy, and benefits of peace.
(b)
Designation
The National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC, shall be designated as the
National Memorial Day Parade
.
(c)
Support by the Secretary of Defense
In order to honor American veterans, including American veterans of past wars, the Secretary of Defense may provide such support that the Secretary determines appropriate for a parade to be carried out in the District of Columbia. In providing support under this subsection, the Secretary may—
(1)
use units of the active and reserve components of the Armed Forces in the National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, DC; and
(2)
use Federal funds for the display of small arms and munitions appropriate for customary ceremonial honors.
