1.
Short title and purpose
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the “
Make Gaza Great Again Act
”.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to specifically ensure the cooperation of Middle Eastern states, excluding the State of Israel, in offering humanitarian entry to Palestinians from Gaza.
2.
Imposition of sanctions on foreign persons failing to cooperate with the united states
(a)
Imposition of sanctions
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to each foreign person included in the most recent list submitted pursuant to subsection (b).
(b)
List of persons
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of foreign persons charged with representation of a foreign government who have rejected a request from the President to grant humanitarian entry to Palestinians from Gaza.
(2)
Updates of lists
The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—
(A)
not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for 5 years; or
(B)
as new information becomes available.
(3)
Form
The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Blocking of property
The President shall exercise all of the powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) (except that the requirements of section 202 of such Act shall not apply) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of the person if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(2)
Inadmissibility of certain individuals
(A)
Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole
A foreign person included in the most recent list submitted pursuant to subsection (b) is—
(i)
inadmissible to the United States;
(ii)
ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and
(iii)
otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.
).
(B)
Current visas revoked
A foreign person described in subparagraph (A) is also subject to the following:
(i)
Revocation of any visa or other entry documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is or was issued.
(ii)
A revocation under clause (i) shall take effect immediately and automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the foreign person’s possession.
(d)
Penalties
The penalties provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) shall apply to a person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of regulations promulgated to carry out subsection (a) to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person who commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that Act.
(e)
Exception To comply with national security
The following activities shall be exempt from sanctions under this section:
(1)
Activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.
).
(2)
Any authorized intelligence or law enforcement activities of the United States.
(f)
Waiver
The President may, on a case-by-case basis, waive the imposition of any sanction or any requirement under this section if the President—
(1)
determines that such a waiver is in the national interest of the United States; and
(2)
not later than 120 days after the date on which the President imposes the sanctions described in subsection (a), and every 120 days thereafter until the date of termination under subsection (g), the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a classified report on the extent to which the President has used the waiver authority under paragraph (1) during the period covered by that report.
(g)
Sunset
The authority to impose sanctions under this section shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(h)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
3.
Suspension of major non-nato ally designation and foreign assistance
(a)
In general
The President may suspend a designation made pursuant to section 517(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321k(a)(1)
) and suspend any and all forms of foreign assistance, to include security assistance, for any country whose government has declined a request by the President to offer humanitarian entry to Palestinians from Gaza.
(b)
Termination
The President may, concurrent with written notice to the appropriate congressional committees, terminate any suspension made pursuant to subsection (a).
4.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed to apply to Israel or any national of the State of Israel.
