1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Support for Expectant and Parenting Foster Youth Act
.
2.
Ensuring expectant and parenting youth have access to services provided through the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program
(a)
Purpose
Section 477(a) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (6), by striking
and
;
(2)
in paragraph (7), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(8)
to connect foster youth in eligible families (as such term is defined in section 511) who receive services under this part with evidence-based home visiting and support services provided under section 511.
.
(b)
Applications
Section 477(b)(3) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(b)(3)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(L)
A certification by the chief executive officer of the State that the State has processes in place to ensure that a youth participating in the program under this section who is in an eligible family (as such term is defined in section 511) is provided with information regarding evidence-based home visiting and support services provided in the State under section 511.
.
3.
Tailored case management and resource coordination services for parenting and expectant youth who have experienced foster care
Section 477(d)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(d)(1)
) is amended to read as follows:
(1)
In general
A State to which an amount is paid from its allotment under subsection (c) may use the amount—
(A)
to provide tailored case management and resource coordination services to youth otherwise eligible for services under the State program under this section who are expectant or parenting; or
(B)
in any manner that is reasonably calculated to accomplish the purposes of this section.
.
4.
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to payments under section 477 of the Social Security Act pursuant to plans approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on or after such date.
