1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
State Accountability for Federal Deployment Costs Act of 2025
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Immigration enforcement is a constitutionally and statutorily delegated power of the Federal Government.
(2)
Certain States and units of local government have refused to assist with, or have actively obstructed, lawful Federal immigration enforcement operations, including by refusing to comply with immigration detainer requests and obstructing Federal immigration enforcement operations (commonly referred to as
raids
).
(3)
Such noncompliance and obstruction can result in civil unrest, security breakdowns, and law enforcement emergencies that require the deployment of Federal military forces, including the National Guard under section 12406 of title 10, United States Code, or active-duty military personnel.
(4)
Such deployments impose substantial costs on the Department of Defense and United States taxpayers, which should be reimbursed by the States and units of local government whose noncompliance with or obstruction of Federal immigration enforcement actions created the need for such deployments.
3.
Reimbursement requirement
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall submit a reimbursement invoice to the Governor of the affected State whenever Federal military personnel (including members of the National Guard and units of the Selected Reserve) are deployed, under Federal authority, to any jurisdiction as a direct result of—
(1)
civil disturbances stemming from lawful Federal immigration enforcement operations; and
(2)
the failure of a State or unit of local government to provide reasonable cooperation or coordination with such operations.
(b)
Covered costs
Costs that are reimbursable under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
temporary duty travel (TDY) and per diem for Federal military personnel deployed in accordance with subsection (a);
(2)
housing, lodging, and meals for such personnel; and
(3)
transportation of such personnel and their equipment.
(c)
Determination of noncooperation
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall issue a public determination as to whether the actions or omissions of a State or unit of local government materially hindered or failed to support the Federal immigration enforcement operations that led to the deployment of Federal military personnel.
(d)
Payment and offset
(1)
Payment due date
Each State shall remit full payment of an invoice received pursuant to subsection (a) not later than 180 days after receiving such invoice from the Department of Defense.
(2)
Offset
If a State fails to remit a payment in accordance with paragraph (1), the President, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, and the heads of other Federal departments or agencies, as appropriate, may rescind 1 or more discretionary grants awarded to the State by the Federal Government to offset such nonpayment.
