1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Smart Space Act of 2026
.
2.
Project recommendations
(a)
Meetings and consultations
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services shall convene consultation meetings to identify alternative financing solutions for the construction or renovation of public buildings, or necessary work to prepare such buildings for disposal that will reduce costs to the Federal Government.
(b)
Meetings
In convening consultation meetings under subsection (a), the Administrator shall include—
(1)
experts related to private commercial real estate;
(2)
experts related to Federal real estate; and
(3)
if available, State real estate experts experienced with leveraging private financing for public buildings and facilities.
(c)
Report and recommendations
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the President—
(1)
recommendations on types of public-private partnerships and alternative financing methods best suited for meeting the public building needs of the Federal Government; and
(2)
a list of recommended projects related to public buildings for which such methods should be used with details on which methods and types of public-private partnerships are recommended for each project.
(d)
Recommended project list
In submitting a list of recommended projects under subsection (c)(2), the Administrator shall submit projects that the Administrator determines—
(1)
serve core missions of the Federal Government for which maintaining the functions in federally owned space over the long-term is critical;
(2)
will result in either consolidations or relocations of Federal departments or agencies out of costly, inefficient, and underutilized space that the Administrator intends to sell or dispose of once vacated; and
(3)
with respect to standard office space, will result in meeting a minimum building utilization of 60 percent or greater as defined in section 2302 of the Thomas R. Carper Water Resources Development Act of 2024 (
40 U.S.C. 584
note).
(e)
Transparency
(1)
Report
The Administrator shall submit the report under subsection (c) to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in the House and the Committee on Environment and Public Works in the Senate and make such report publicly available on the website of the General Services Administration.
(2)
Timeline
The Administrator of General Services shall maintain on the website of the General Services Administration information on the process under this Act, including any timelines and milestones.
(3)
Delays
The Administrator shall report directly to the President and Congress any delays with respect to the timing and milestones described in paragraph (2).
(4)
Meetings
Meetings pursuant to subsection (a) shall be noticed and open to the public and shall not be subject to
chapter 10
of title 5, United States Code.
(f)
Project approvals
The President may direct the Administrator to proceed with any projects on the recommended project list, subject to future appropriations and subsections (g) and (i).
(g)
Prospectuses
Projects described in subsection (c)(2) that are approved by the President shall be subject to section 3307 of title 40, United States Code, except that prospectuses for such projects shall be submitted to the Committees listed in subsection (e)(1) not later than 30 days after approval by the President.
(h)
Accountability
Any proposed types of alternative financing and public-private partnerships shall include terms and conditions that ensure accountability and performance.
(i)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as providing the Administrator of General Services any additional legal authorities beyond the authorities existing prior to enactment of this Act.
(j)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Alternate financing; public-private partnership
The terms
alternate financing
and
public-private partnership
may include—
(A)
agreements that reflect an obligation by a non-Federal entity to design, build, finance, operate, and maintain an asset, or a combination thereof; and
(B)
a ground-lease to a non-Federal party with a subsequent lease back of the improvements.
(2)
Public building
The term
public building
has the meaning given such term in section 3301 of title 40, United States Code.
