1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Seton Hall Fire Victims Remembrance Act of 2026
.
2.
Fire suppression standards at institutions of higher education
(a)
Fire suppression standards
(1)
In general
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and other relevant subject matter experts (as determined by the Secretary and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology), shall develop and finalize standards for fire suppression systems in dormitories and other residential facilities for students on the campus of a covered institution (which shall include a timeline for phasing in such standards and the threshold of compliance to be met by the covered institution to receive a designation). The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall update these standards every 10 years.
(2)
Recommendations; technical assistance
Not later than three years after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall—
(A)
submit to Congress recommendations with respect to ensuring maximum compliance of covered institutions with the standards finalized under paragraph (1); and
(B)
provide technical assistance to covered institutions with respect to complying with such standards.
(b)
Institutional compliance
(1)
In general
(A)
Assessment
Not later than one year after the finalization of standards under subsection (a)(1), and every 5 years thereafter, a covered institution shall carry out an assessment of compliance with such standards and submit an accurate assessment to the Secretary. The accuracy of the assessment shall be determined by an expert in fire suppression systems, as defined by the Secretary in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Upon submission of the assessment of compliance, the covered institution certifies the accuracy of the assessment.
(B)
Determination
Not later than six months after receiving an assessment from a covered institution under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall make a designation with respect to the degree of compliance of each dormitory and residential facility.
(C)
Designation
(i)
If the Secretary determines a covered institution is in compliance with the standards finalized under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall designate the institution as a
Federally Recognized Fire-Safe Campus
.
(ii)
If the Secretary determines a covered institution is not in compliance with the standards finalized under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall designate the institution as a
Not Federally Recognized Fire-Safe Campus
.
(D)
Publication
The Secretary shall make the assessments submitted under subparagraph (A) and the degree of compliance determined under subparagraph (B) publicly available on a website of the Department of Education in a form that is easily accessible and understandable.
(2)
Program participation agreement
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1094(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(30)
The institution will comply with the requirements of the Seton Hall Fire Victims Remembrance Act of 2026.
.
(3)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as to eliminate the ability of covered institutions designated under subparagraph (D)(ii) to participate in programs authorized under subchapter IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 only because the covered institution was designated under subparagraph (D)(ii).
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable program
The term
applicable program
has the meaning given such term in section 400(c) of the General Education Provisions Act (
20 U.S.C. 1221(c)
).
(2)
Covered institution
The term
covered institution
means an institution of higher education that receives funds under an applicable program.
(3)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
