1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ethanol for America Act of 2025
.
2.
Finalization of proposed rule required
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Proposed rule
The term
proposed rule
means the proposed rule of the Administrator entitled
E15 Fuel Dispenser Labeling and Compatibility with Underground Storage Tanks
(86 Fed. Reg. 5094 (January 19, 2021)).
(b)
Finalization required
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall finalize the proposed rule in accordance with this section.
(c)
E15 labeling requirements
In finalizing the proposed rule pursuant to subsection (b) with respect to E15 labeling, the Administrator shall finalize the first co-proposal described in the proposed rule.
(d)
E15 compatibility with underground storage tanks
(1)
E15 compatibility
In finalizing the proposed rule pursuant to subsection (b) with respect to the compatibility of underground storage tanks with fuel blends with up to 15 percent ethanol, the Administrator shall ensure that—
(A)
existing underground storage tank systems are deemed to be compliant with fuel blends with up to 15 percent ethanol, regardless of whether the owners or operators of those systems are able to locate installation or compatibility documentation for those systems;
(B)
steel and fiberglass underground storage tanks manufactured after July 2005 and all fiberglass reinforced plastic piping are considered compatible with fuel blends of up to 15 percent ethanol; and
(C)
if owners or operators of underground storage tank systems can demonstrate the compatibility of certain components of those systems (such as gaskets or seals) with fuel blends with up to 15 percent ethanol, those owners or operators are not required to replace other equipment to achieve full system compatibility.
(2)
Future storage flexibility
For purposes of ensuring that gasoline and diesel underground storage tank systems have future flexibility in fuel storage, the Administrator, in finalizing the proposed rule pursuant to subsection (b), shall require owners and operators of underground storage tank systems that store motor fuel for on-road vehicles to ensure that those systems and the components of those systems, including components such as pipe dopes and sealants, that are installed or replaced after the effective date of the proposed rule are compatible with fuel blends with up to 100 percent ethanol, regardless of the types of fuel blends currently being stored in those systems.
