1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Agriculture Grants for Veterans Education and Training Services Act
or the
AG VETS Act
.
2.
Agriculture grants for veteran education and training services
Title IV of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (
7 U.S.C. 7624 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
414.
Agriculture grants for veteran education and training services
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a program under which the Secretary will award competitive grants to eligible entities for the purpose of establishing and enhancing farming and ranching opportunities for veterans (as defined in section 101(2) of title 38, United States Code).
(b)
Eligible entities
An entity is eligible for a grant under this section if such entity is—
(1)
a cooperative extension service;
(2)
a land-grant college or university (as defined in section 1404 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (
7 U.S.C. 3103
));
(3)
a non-land-grant college of agriculture (as defined in such section);
(4)
a Hispanic-serving agricultural college and university (as defined in such section);
(5)
a State department of agriculture;
(6)
a nonprofit organization;
(7)
a community-based organization; or
(8)
a combination of 2 or more eligible entities described in paragraphs (1) through (7).
(c)
Use of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use the funds received through the grant—
(1)
to provide training and classroom education that leads to a comprehensive understanding of farm and ranch business operations and management practices;
(2)
to develop or identify curriculum that veteran farmers and ranchers can adopt to help manage their enterprise;
(3)
to offer education, workshops, tours, and instructor-supervised field experiences; or
(4)
to support any other activity, as identified by the Secretary, to increase the number of military veterans pursuing knowledge and skills development in agriculture.
(d)
Matching funds
An entity that receives a grant under this section shall provide non-Federal matching funds for the purposes of carrying out this section in an amount equal to not less than the amount of the grant.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030.
.
