1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States Capitol Police Reserve Fund Act of 2026
.
2.
United States Capitol Police Reserve Fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established a fund, to be titled the
United States Capitol Police Reserve Fund
, for the payment of salaries of employees and necessary expenses of the United States Capitol Police during a lapse of appropriations for the United States Capitol Police.
(b)
Use of the fund
The Chief of the Capitol Police, under the approval of the Capitol Police Board, may use amounts from the United States Capitol Police Reserve Fund only to make payments of salaries of employees and necessary expenses of the United States Capitol Police after the start, and before the end, of a lapse in appropriations with respect to the United States Capitol Police.
(c)
Appropriation
There is hereby appropriated, out of money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000 for the United States Capitol Police Reserve Fund.
(d)
Deposit of appropriated funds into the fund
The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit amounts appropriated under this section to the United States Capitol Reserve Fund.
(e)
Release of funds to the Treasury
Not later than January 31, 2027, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall transfer any amounts not used for the purposes described in subsection (b) remaining in the United States Capitol Reserve Fund as of December 31, 2026, to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such amounts shall be rescinded.
(f)
Report to Congress
Not later than 30 calendar days after the date of compliance with subsection (e), the Chief of the Capitol Police shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the uses of, and the transactions relating to, the United States Capitol Reserve Fund.
(g)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
(3)
The Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(4)
The Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
