1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Law Enforcement Support and Counter Transnational Repression Act
.
2.
Law enforcement support and counter transnational repression public service announcement campaign
(a)
In general
Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
890E.
Law enforcement support and counter transnational repression public service announcement campaign
(a)
Campaign
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall direct the Office of Partnership and Engagement of the Department to conduct a public service announcement campaign educating the public and international allies on the issue of transnational repression and terrorism threats related to transnational repression and the resources available to victims of transnational repression and terrorism threats related to transnational repression, including the appropriate manners of contacting the Federal Bureau of Investigation to anonymously report suspected acts of transnational repression and terrorism threats related to transnational repression.
(2)
Implementation
Public service announcement campaigns under paragraph (1) should be carried out in languages determined relevant by the Secretary.
(b)
Research
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in coordination with the Under Secretary for Science and Technology of the Department, shall, to the extent practicable, carry out research and development, including operational testing, of technologies and techniques for enhancing the Department’s support to Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial officials relating to countering transnational repression and terrorism threats related to transnational repression, in accordance with applicable constitutional, privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties protections.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agent of a foreign government
The term
agent of a foreign government
means an individual or entity that operates subject to the direction or control of—
(A)
a foreign government; or
(B)
an official or entity of such foreign government.
(2)
Foreign government
The term
foreign government
means the government of a foreign country.
(3)
Transnational repression
The term
transnational repression
means an action of a foreign government or an agent of a foreign government that satisfies each of the following:
(A)
The action involves—
(i)
any effort intended to coerce, harass, or digitally or physically threaten, including by force or reasonable fear of death or serious bodily injury or imprisonment of a person or an immediate family member of a person, a person to take an action in the interest of such a foreign government;
(ii)
any effort intended to harass or coerce, including by force or fear, a person to forebear from exercising their First Amendment rights or any other right guaranteed to the person by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or to retaliate against a person for having exercised such a right;
(iii)
an extrajudicial killing; or
(iv)
any act intended to further the efforts specified in clause (i), (ii), or (iii).
(B)
The action is engaged in for or in the interests of such a foreign government.
(C)
The action—
(i)
occurs, in whole or in part, in the United States; or
(ii)
is committed against a United States person.
(4)
United States person
The term
United States person
has the meaning given such term in section 1637(d)(10) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2015 (
50 U.S.C. 1708(d)(10)
).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 890D the following new item:
Sec. 890E. Law enforcement support and counter transnational repression public service announcement campaign.
.
