1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Government Shutdown Efficiency Act
.
2.
Authority to sell Federal real property during lapse in appropriations
(a)
Authority
Notwithstanding
chapter 33
of title 31, United States Code, during any partial or full lapse in appropriations with respect to the executive branch of the Federal Government, the President may—
(1)
sell any real property owned by the Federal Government; and
(2)
use any funds received from such sale to pay the salary and expenses of any Federal officer or employee who is excepted from furlough during such lapse.
(b)
Excepted from furlough
Any services by an officer or employee under this section relating to the sale of real property shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, services for emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of property.
(c)
Backpay
Any Federal officer or employee who receives salary and expenses during a lapse in appropriations pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall not receive back pay pursuant to section 1341(c) of title 31, United States Code.
(d)
Amounts received
(1)
Deposit
If amounts are received from the sale of real property under this section after the applicable lapse in appropriations ends, the President shall deposit such amounts in the general fund of the Treasury for the sole purpose of deficit reduction.
(2)
Use of funds for purchase of Greenland
Any amounts received from the sale of real property under this section may be used for the purchase of Greenland by the United States.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Federal officer or employee
The term
Federal officer or employee
includes members of the Armed Forces (as defined in section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code), including reserve components thereof, who perform active service during the applicable lapse in appropriations.
(2)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given that term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
).
(3)
Property
The term
property
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of title 40, United States Code, except that such term does not include—
(A)
any interest in real property held in trust by the United States for, or reservation of, an Indian Tribe; or
(B)
any real property located within such property.
3.
Prohibition on selling Federal real property to foreign adversary countries
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may not sell any real property owned by the Federal Government to—
(1)
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea;
(2)
the People's Republic of China;
(3)
the Russian Federation;
(4)
the Islamic Republic of Iran; or
(5)
any entity substantially controlled by any such country.
