1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act
.
2.
Study on the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in veterans who served in the Vietnam theater of operations during the Vietnam era
(a)
Epidemiological study
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the Department of Health and Human Services, shall commence an epidemiological study on the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the Vietnam era, using data from the Veterans Affairs Central Cancer Registry and the National Program of Cancer Registries. The study shall include—
(1)
an identification of the rate of incidence of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the Vietnam era and in residents of the United States, from the beginning of the Vietnam era to the date of enactment of this Act; and
(2)
for each of the groups specified in paragraph (1), an identification of the percentage of individuals with cholangiocarcinoma by various demographic characteristics, including by age, gender, race, ethnicity, and the geographic location of the patient at the time of diagnosis.
(b)
Reports to Congress
(1)
Initial report
Not later than one year after the completion of the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report containing—
(A)
the results of the study under subsection (a); and
(B)
recommendations for administrative or legislative actions required to address issues identified in the study under subsection (a).
(2)
Follow-Up reports
The Secretary shall periodically submit to the Congress a follow-up reports, as determined by the Secretary, to provide updates to the information included in the initial report under paragraph (1) and information collected pursuant to subsection (c).
(c)
Continued tracking of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the Vietnam era
The Secretary shall track the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the Vietnam era using the Veterans Affairs Central Cancer Registry, and provide such information to Congress in follow-up reports submitted under subsection (b)(2).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Vietnam era
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
The term
covered veterans of the Vietnam era
means veterans who served in the Vietnam theater of operations during the Vietnam era.
