1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pre-Pilot Pathway Act
.
2.
Apprenticeship program for pilots
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Apprentice
The term
apprentice
means a student enrolled at a flight training provider.
(2)
Flight training provider
The term
flight training provider
means a flight academy certified under part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary, in consultation with appropriate industry stakeholders and flight training providers who conduct flight training under part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, shall establish an apprenticeship program to establish a pipeline of qualified and interested individuals to become commercial pilots.
(c)
Selection
Under the apprenticeship program established under subsection (b), each flight training provider participating in the apprenticeship program established under subsection (b) may select up to 8 applicants, or more if considered appropriate by the Secretary based upon the size and type of each participating flight training provider, to serve as apprentices each academic year.
(d)
Curriculum and requirements
(1)
In general
To graduate from an apprenticeship program established under subsection (b), an apprentice shall satisfy any relevant requirements and minimum curriculum under part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), including all curriculum under subpart C of such part.
(2)
Minimum requirements
Nothing in this Act prevents a flight training provider from imposing additional requirements, such as modifying the terms of service of the apprenticeship program, on an apprentice taking part in an apprenticeship program established pursuant to this section.
(e)
Optional program
A flight training provider may choose not to participate in an apprenticeship program established under this section.
(f)
Regulations
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as are necessary to implement this Act.
(g)
Incentivizing retired pilots
The Secretary shall take such actions as may be appropriate to develop methods to incentivize pilots, including retired military pilots, retiring airline pilots, and graduates of the apprenticeship programs established under this section, to become instructors, mentors, or program advisors at participating flight training providers, including through the development of pathway programs for such pilots to gain initial qualifications or concurrent qualifications as certified flight instructors under part 61 or part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
(h)
Reporting and evaluation
(1)
Reporting
The Secretary shall submit to Congress an annual report detailing apprentice progress, retention rates, and post-graduation employment outcomes under the program under this section.
(2)
Evaluation
The Secretary shall conduct an annual review of the apprenticeship program’s effectiveness, including the impact on addressing pilot shortages.
