1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Education and Critical U.S. Research and Employment in STEM Act of 2025
or the
SECURE STEM Act
.
2.
Prohibition on certain visa issuances
(a)
Visa Ineligibility
Notwithstanding any other provision of law and except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary of State may not issue a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security may not admit to the United States, a covered foreign national who is seeking admission to the United States under a covered visa category.
(b)
Employment Prohibition at National Laboratories
Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, a national research laboratory may not employ a covered foreign national who is present in the United States under a covered visa category on the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
National Interest Waiver
The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security may jointly waive the application of subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a specific individual if the Secretaries determine that such a waiver is in the National interest of the United States.
3.
Reporting Requirements
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, a biannual report, including, for the previous 180-day period—
(1)
the total number of waivers granted under section 2(c);
(2)
a summary of the justification for each waiver; and
(3)
biographical information about each recipient of such a waiver, including any prior affiliation with foreign state-sponsored institutions.
4.
Definitions
For purposes of this Act:
(1)
The term
covered visa category
means a nonimmigrant visa issued under any of the following:
(A)
Section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b)
).
(B)
Section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(O)(i)
).
(C)
Section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(J)
).
(D)
Section 101(a)(15)(F), (J), or (M) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(F)
, (J), or (M)) (student visas).
(2)
The term
covered foreign national
means an alien who is a national of any of the following:
(A)
The People’s Republic of China.
(B)
The Russian Federation.
(C)
The Islamic Republic of Iran.
(D)
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
(E)
The Republic of Cuba.
(3)
The term
national research laboratory
means a
Federal laboratory
as such term is defined in section 4 of the Stevenson–Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3703
).
5.
Rules
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall make such rules as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
