1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
RCORP Authorization Act
.
2.
Rural Communities Opioid Response Program
Subpart I of part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 330A–2 (
42 U.S.C. 254c–1b
) the following:
330A–3.
Rural Communities Opioid Response Program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (in this section referred to as the
Administrator
), shall maintain a program to be known as the Rural Communities Opioid Response Program to establish and expand prevention, treatment, and recovery services in rural areas (as defined by the Secretary) for substance use disorders (including opioid use disorder), related behavioral health conditions, and other related public health issues.
(b)
Grants and cooperative agreements
(1)
In general
In carrying out the program under this section, the Administrator may award grants or cooperative agreements to eligible entities.
(2)
Use of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant or cooperative agreement under this section may use funds received through such grant or cooperative agreement to—
(A)
conduct planning activities to strengthen the capacity of cross-sector networks and improve coordination of resources and care involving substance use disorder;
(B)
identify and implement evidence-based and sustainable delivery models to provide direct prevention, treatment, and recovery services;
(C)
respond to new and emerging public health issues involving substance use disorder;
(D)
provide targeted technical assistance or evaluation activities with respect to grants or cooperative agreements awarded under this section; or
(E)
engage in such other activities as the Secretary may determine appropriate to carry out the program under this section.
(3)
Prohibited use of funds
An eligible entity that is awarded a grant or cooperative agreement under this section may not use funds provided through such grant or cooperative agreement for the acquisition or improvement of real property.
(4)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement under this section, an entity shall be—
(A)
a State;
(B)
an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act);
(C)
a State office of rural health; or
(D)
any other domestic entity.
(5)
Application
To seek a grant or cooperative agreement under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require, including a description of how the rural population in the local community or region to be served will be involved in the development and ongoing operations of such activities, as applicable.
(6)
Grant period
The Administrator may not award a grant or cooperative agreement under this section for a period of more than 5 years.
(7)
Funding
The Administrator may fully fund a grant or cooperative agreement made under this section at the time of the award.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $165,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030.
.
