1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Workforce Civics Competency and Accountability Act
.
2.
Requiring Federal civilian career employees to pass citizenship test as condition of employment
Subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section (and conforming the table of contents at the beginning of such chapter accordingly):
3330g.
Career employees; citizenship test requirement
(a)
Appointment
An individual who fails to pass the citizenship test shall be ineligible for appointment—
(1)
to a position in the competitive service; or
(2)
as a career appointee.
(b)
Current employees
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Federal Workforce Civics Competency and Accountability Act, as a condition of continued employment, each individual who is a career employee on such date of enactment shall take the citizenship test.
(c)
Annual testing
(1)
In general
As a condition of continued employment, each career employee shall take the citizenship test annually.
(2)
Re-test
If a career employees receives a failing grade on any annual test under paragraph (1), such career employee shall take a citizenship test consisting of all questions on such test.
(3)
Discipline
A career employee may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including removal, for failing to pass the full citizenship test under paragraph (2).
(d)
Format
The citizenship test administered pursuant to—
(1)
subsection (a), (b), or (c)(2) shall consist of all questions on such test; and
(2)
subsection (c)(1) shall consist of 20 questions, randomly selected, from the full citizenship test.
(e)
Passing grade
An individual shall be deemed to have passed the citizenship test administered pursuant to—
(1)
subsection (a), (b), or (c)(2) if such individual answers at least 90 percent of the questions on the test correctly; and
(2)
subsection (c)(1) if such employee answers 15 out of 20 questions on such test correctly.
(f)
Administration
(1)
OPM
The Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, shall administer the citizenship test under this section, in such form as the Office considers appropriate.
(2)
System
The Office shall establish and maintain a website and other necessary electronic systems to maintain records and other necessary information regarding the citizenship test.
(3)
Study materials
The Office, in consultation with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, shall provide career employees and applicants for employment access to official study materials and online training resources for purposes of taking the citizenship test under this section.
(4)
Report
The Office shall submit an annual report to Congress detailing agency compliance rates, test results, and any disciplinary actions taken under this section.
(g)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
career appointee
has the meaning given that term in section 3132(a) of this title;
(2)
the term
career employee
—
(A)
means—
(i)
an employee occupying a position in the competitive service; and
(ii)
any career appointee; and
(B)
does not include any civil service position that is excepted from the competitive service because of its confidential or policy-making character; and
(3)
the term
citizenship test
means the test administered for purposes of determining eligibility for naturalization of an alien in accordance with section 312(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
.
