1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions Review Act
.
2.
Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions
(a)
GAO report
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall initiate a review of the Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions.
(2)
Requirements
In conducting the review under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall—
(A)
review the ethics policies and practices of each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission;
(B)
review the practices each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission uses to communicate with the general public;
(C)
review current Federal responsibilities at each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission, including the types of actions taken by relevant Federal agencies in carrying out such responsibilities;
(D)
describe the level and sources of Federal and State funding received by each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission;
(E)
identify duties and responsibilities of each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission that may be duplicative of, or overlap with, other Federal authorities; and
(F)
review policies and best practices of each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission for reporting activities of the Commission.
(3)
Report
Upon completion of the review conducted under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report containing—
(A)
the findings of such review; and
(B)
any recommendations, including any recommendations for statutory or administrative changes or changes to ethics policies and practices, to increase the transparency or congressional oversight of the Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions.
(b)
Plan for compliance
Not later than 90 days after the Comptroller General submits the report required under subsection (a)(3), and annually thereafter for five years, each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a plan detailing actions such Commission has taken to comply with the recommendations contained in such report.
(c)
Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission defined
In this section, the term
Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission
means—
(1)
the Susquehanna River Basin Commission created by the Susquehanna River Basin Compact to which consent was given by
Public Law 91–575
(84 Stat. 1509);
(2)
the Delaware River Basin Commission created by the Delaware River Basin Compact to which consent was given by
Public Law 87–328
(75 Stat. 688); and
(3)
the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin created by the Potomac River Basin Compact to which consent was given by
Public Law 91–407
(84 Stat. 856).
