1.
Inclusion of school security in the National Security Strategy
Section 108(b) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3043(b)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
(5)
The strategies and capabilities needed to ensure the safety and security of schools in the United States, including elementary schools, secondary schools, and institutions of higher education.
.
2.
Assessment of threats to schools in the United States
(a)
Assessment
The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct a comprehensive assessment of threats to elementary schools, secondary schools, and institutions of higher education in the United States.
(b)
Consultation with States
In conducting the assessment subsection (a), the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consult with the chief executive of each State.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees and congressional leadership a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Education and Workforce and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The term
congressional leadership
means—
(A)
the majority leader of the Senate;
(B)
the minority leader of the Senate;
(C)
the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(D)
the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
(3)
The terms
elementary school
,
secondary school
, and
State
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(4)
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
