Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V and Section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.; 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and as President of  , in order to modify, as provided by Section 504(c) of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2464(c)), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, adjust the original designation of eligible articles, and modify the designations of beneficiary developing countries in accord with my notifications to  ; and  , and in accord with technical changes in the identification of certain beneficiary countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of  ,     (TSUS) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended by Annex II of Executive Order No.   of February 26,  , is amended as provided in Annex II, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended by   of Executive Order No.  , is amended as provided in Annex III attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General  ) (iii) of the   is modified as provided in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. (a) General   (c) (i) of the   is modified--

(i) by deleting from the list therein of countries designated as beneficiary developing countries for purposes of   "Laos", in order to withdraw from   the status of a beneficiary of the  ,

(ii) by adding, in alphabetical order, to that list of designated beneficiary developing countries " ", in order to designate   as a beneficiary of  , and

(iii) A) by deleting from the list of designated beneficiary developing countries " " and "Dahomey", and by substituting therefor, in alphabetical order, "Republic of China" and "Benin", respectively, and (B) by deleting from the list of designated beneficiary nonindependent countries and territories "Gilbert and Ellice Island" and by substituting therefor, in alphabetical order, the entries "Gilbert Islands", and "Tuvalu".

(b) General Headnote 3(c) (iii) of the   is modified by deleting from the list therein "( )" wherever that entry appears beside the entry "Republic of China".

 . 6. (a) The amendments made by Section 5 of this   shall be effective on the date of publication of this   in  .

(b) The amendments made by  , paragraph (b) of this  , made part hereof by Section 4 above, shall be effective with respect to articles both: imported on or after  , and entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

(c) The other amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: imported on or after  , and entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: Annexes I, II, III, and  , attached to and made a part of the   order, are printed in  .
