Executive Order  —Procedures for an Export Licensing Policy as to  
 
 

The Energy Reorganization Act of   transferred to   the licensing and related regulatory functions previously, exercised by   under the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended.

The exercise of discretion and control over nuclear exports within the limits of law concerns the authority and responsibility of the President with respect to the conduct of foreign policy and the ensuring of the common defense and security.

It is essential that the   branch inform   of its views before the   issues or denies a license, or grants an exemption.

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, and statutes of  , including the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U S.C. 2011 et seq.), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a). The Secretary of   is designated to receive from   a copy of each export license application, each proposal by   to issue a general license for export, and each proposal by   for exemption from the requirement for a license, which may involve a determination, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended, that the issuance of the license or exemption from the requirement for a license will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security.

 ) The Secretary of   shall ensure that a copy of each such application, proposed general license, or proposed exemption is received by the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, the Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the Director, and the head of any other department or agency which may have an interest therein, in order to afford them the opportunity to express their views, if any, on whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted.

 . 2. Within   of receipt of a copy of a license application, proposed general license, or proposed exemption, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator, the Director, and the head of any other agency or department to which such copy has been transmitted, shall each transmit to the Secretary of   his views, if any, on whether and under what conditions the license should be issued or the exemption granted.

 . 3. The Secretary of   shall, after the provisions of section 2 of this order have been complied with, transmit to the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator, the Director, and the head of any other department or agency who has expressed his views thereon, a proposed position of the   branch as to whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted, including a proposed judgment as to whether issuance of the license or granting of the exemption will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security.

 . 4. If the heads of departments and agencies specified in section 2 of this order are unable to agree upon a position for the   branch, the Secretary of   shall refer the matter to the Chairman of     in order to obtain a decision. In the event   is unable to reach a decision, the Chairman of that   shall refer the matter to the President for his decision.

 . 5. The Secretary of  , after taking the actions required by this order,   notify   of the position of the   branch as to whether the license should be issued or the exemption granted, including the judgment of the   branch as to whether issuance of the license or granting of the exemption will, or will not, be inimical to or constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security. The   branch position shall be supported by relevant information and documentation as appropriate to the proceedings before  .

 

 ,

 .
