Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including section 205 (a) of   of  , as amended (40 U.S.C. 486 (a)), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a)   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) is hereby reconstituted in   of the President. The   shall consist of the Director of  , who shall be its Chairman, the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and such other members as the President may from time to time specify.

(b) Whenever requested by   or the Director of  , the   shall review the reports made by   pursuant to section 4 of this order, with particular attention to resolving conflicting claims on, ;and alternate uses for, any property described in those reports, consistent with laws governing Federal real property. The   shall submit such recommendations and cause such reports to be submitted to the President as may be appropriate.

 . 2. All Executive agencies shall periodically review their real property holdings and conduct surveys of such property in accordance with standards and procedures determined by   pursuant to section 206 of   of  , as amended (40 U.S.C. 487), and this order.

 . 3.   shall issue standards and procedures, conduct surveys, and cause surveys to be conducted, to ensure that the real property holdings of Executive agencies shall continually be evaluated with special emphasis on the identification of proper-ties that are not utilized, are under utilized, or are not being put to optimum use. The Administrator shall consult with appropriate Executive agencies in order to (a) identify real property that is excess or surplus to the needs of the   agencies, and (b) make such real property available for its most beneficial use under the various laws of   affecting such property.

 . 4.   shall report to the Director of   with respect to any property or portion thereof which has not been reported excess to the requirements of the holding agency and which, in the judgment of the Administrator, is not utilized, is under utilized, or is not being put to optimum use, and which he recommends should be reported as excess property.

 . 5. The Director of   shall review Federal real property policies and the objectives of the   branch of the  ; and shall review the reports made by   pursuant to section 4 of this order, as well as other reports relating to Federal real property. The Director shall submit such recommendations and cause such reports to be submitted to the President as may be appropriate.

 . 6. Executive  . 11724 of  , is hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 .
