Executive Order  —President's Commission on Olympic Sports
 
 

  has a special interest in its representation in the Olympic Games and other international athletic competitions. As we mark our  , nothing would be more fitting to our celebrations here at home than to be represented by our finest amateur athletes on the Olympic fields.

  has never attempted to direct amateur athletics in this country, nor should it. However, the   does have a role in helping to promote   competition in international sporting events.

 's best amateur athletes can represent us in the Olympics only if the  -chartered   and related organizations are sufficiently organized to recruit, screen, and develop the athletes on our teams. In the past, rivalries among amateur sports organizations have sometimes fragmented our international sports efforts, hindered opportunity for our athletes to develop their skills fully, and restrained voluntary financial support for our Olympic teams as well as other amateur sports teams engaged in international competitions.

Because there are conflicting views on the best methods of addressing the problems facing international amateur athletics, it is desirable and appropriate that a   of outstanding, knowledgeable   undertake an immediate study of our  's problems in the Olympic sports.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established   on Olympic Sports (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

 . 2. The   shall consist of a Chairman and thirteen other members, who shall be appointed by the President. In addition, the Speaker of   and the President   of the   are requested to appoint two members of   and two members of the  , respectively, to serve as members of the  .

 . 3. (a) The   shall conduct a full and complete study and evaluation of  , its activities, and its present and former membership groups on a sport-by-sport basis as they relate to the effectiveness of   teams in international competitions in the Olympic sports.

(b) The   shall determine what factors impede or tend to impede or prevent   from fielding its best amateur athletes for participation in Olympic Games and other international amateur sporting events in the Olympic sports.

(c) The   shall study methods to assure adequate financial support for our Olympic teams and other amateur athletic teams participating in international competitions in the Olympic sports.

(d) The   shall study and evaluate any other related matters which have a direct bearing upon participation by amateur athletes of   in Olympic Games and other international amateur sporting events in the Olympic sports, including development plans to increase the level of sports participation generally in  .

 . 4. (a) The   shall, through the Secretary of  , and  , submit two reports of its findings and recommendations to the President.

(b) The first report shall be an overview of the problems and an indepth analysis of the organization and operation of   and other major sports groups as they relate to participation in international competition in the Olympic sports. This report shall be submitted within   after the   meets for the first time. Included in this report shall be a set of recommendations for the President which deal with overall amateur sports problems.

(c) The second report shall be an analysis of the organizational and developmental problems in each Olympic sport. This shall be submitted within   after the first report and contain an analysis of the financial and facilities requirements of each sport and recommend ways to provide needed funds.

 . 5. The Chairman of the   is authorized to establish such   as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 6. (a) The Secretary of  , and   shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services for the  .

(b) Expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be met from funds available to the Secretary of  , and  .

 . 7. Members of the   and   created pursuant to this  , not otherwise employed in the Government, may receive an amount not to exceed $100 per day from   for their service with the  , and may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ), for persons employed intermittently in the   service.

 . 8. The Secretary of  , and   shall perform such functions with respect to the   and   created pursuant to this  , as may be required by   (86 Stat. 770; 5 U.S.C., App. 1).

 

 ,

 .
