1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Advisory Council on Unpaid Meal Debt Act of 2022
.
2.
National advisory council on unpaid meal debt in child nutrition programs
(a)
Establishment
There is established a National Advisory Council on Unpaid Meal Debt in Child Nutrition Programs (in this section referred to as the
Council
).
(b)
Duties
The Council shall provide recommendations, in accordance with subsection (g), to the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service with respect to addressing unpaid school meal fees by ensuring that—
(1)
students are not stigmatized; and
(2)
school food authorities can maintain fiscal solvency in order to ensure the long-term viability of school meal programs.
(c)
Membership
(1)
Number and appointment
The Council shall be composed of 14 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
(A)
2 members shall be school nutrition State agency directors who are employed in different States;
(B)
2 members shall be school food service directors of a school meal program in an urban area who are employed in different States;
(C)
2 members shall be school food service directors of a school meal program in a rural area who are employed in different States;
(D)
2 members shall be officials of the Food and Nutrition Service office of the Department of Agriculture;
(E)
2 members shall be parents or guardians (who are not related to one another or to the same child) of children who are eligible for free and reduced price school meals;
(F)
2 members shall represent organizations with expertise in the school meal programs; and
(G)
2 members shall be food service professionals who—
(i)
work in school cafeterias; and
(ii)
maintain daily contact with students, including by preparing or serving meals or working at registers.
(2)
Terms
(A)
In general
Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Council.
(B)
Vacancies
Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the life of the Council shall be appointed for the remainder of the life of the Council.
(d)
Compensation
(1)
In general
Members shall serve without pay.
(2)
Travel expenses
Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Parents or guardians
In the case of a member who is a parent or guardian appointed under subsection (c)(1)(E), such member, in addition to reimbursement under paragraph (2), shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, be compensated in advance for other personal expenses related to participation on the Council, including child care expenses and lost wages during scheduled Council meetings.
(4)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $1,500,000, to remain available through the date described in subsection (h).
(e)
Chairperson; vice chairperson
(1)
Eligibility
To be eligible for election to Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the Council, an individual must be a member of the Council described in subsection (c)(1).
(2)
Election
The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Council shall be elected by such members.
(f)
Meetings
(1)
In general
The Council shall meet not fewer than 2 times per year at the call of the Chairperson.
(2)
Quorum
5 members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
(g)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 3 years after the establishment of the Council under subsection (a), the Council shall submit to the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service a report containing the recommendations described in subsection (b).
(2)
Guidance
Not later than 1 year after the submission of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service, shall use the recommendations contained in such report to issue guidance with respect to addressing unpaid school meal fees.
(h)
Termination
The Council shall terminate on the date that is 1 day after the submission of the report required under subsection (g).
(i)
Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide the Council with such technical and other assistance, including secretarial and clerical assistance, as may be required to carry out its functions.
(j)
Unpaid school meal fees defined
In this section, the term
unpaid school meal fees
means outstanding fees owed by a household to a local educational agency for lunches under this Act or breakfasts under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1773
).
