1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Abortion Care Awareness Act of 2022
.
2.
Public education and awareness campaign on access to abortion and related health services
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 280g et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
399V–7.
Public education and awareness campaign on access to abortion and related health services
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out a coordinated, focused, national public health education, awareness, and outreach campaign to enhance access to abortion and related health services.
(b)
Campaign requirements
The campaign under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
include education, awareness, and outreach regarding—
(A)
where and how to access abortion and related health services, including where and how to access medication abortion that is consistent with the labeling most recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration;
(B)
medically accurate information about medication abortion;
(C)
the right of patients to legally travel across State lines to obtain abortion and related health services;
(D)
how to differentiate facilities commonly known as crisis pregnancy centers from facilities that actually provide abortion and related health services, including how to identify—
(i)
misleading claims by such centers about reproductive health care; and
(ii)
inaccurate, misleading, or stigmatizing information disseminated by such centers about the risks of abortion and contraception; and
(E)
how to identify misinformation regarding abortion and related health services intended to deceive, or to discourage individuals from accessing such services; and
(2)
be designed to ensure cultural competency, efficacy, and accessibility for and within underserved communities, including communities of color, immigrants, people with disabilities, people with limited English proficiency, people with low income, young people, LGBTQI+ people, and people living in rural or other medically underserved areas.
(c)
Campaign limitations
In carrying out the campaign under subsection (a), the Secretary shall not—
(1)
promote misinformation regarding the safety of abortion and related health services;
(2)
promote abstinence-only-until-marriage programs, also referred to as sexual risk avoidance education programs, or other programs that are not comprehensive or medically accurate; or
(3)
collect, retain, use, or disclose personal information about visitors to any website, app, or other educational or campaign resource.
(d)
Consultation
In carrying out the campaign under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with—
(1)
licensed health care professionals who are experts in reproductive health as well as abortion and related health services, including medication abortion;
(2)
nonprofit organizations whose missions are focused on expanding reproductive rights and reproductive justice, including abortion funds;
(3)
State and local public health departments; and
(4)
nonprofit institutions of higher education.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.
.
