1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
President’s Cup Cybersecurity Competition Act
.
2.
President’s Cup Cybersecurity Competition
(a)
In general
The Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (referred to in this section as the
Director
) of the Department of Homeland Security is authorized to hold an annual cybersecurity competition to be known as the
Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s President’s Cup Cybersecurity Competition
(in this section referred to as the
competition
) for the purpose of identifying, challenging, and competitively awarding prizes, including cash prizes, to the United States Government’s best cybersecurity practitioners and teams across offensive and defensive cybersecurity disciplines.
(b)
Competition design
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Director, in carrying out the competition, may consult with, and consider advice from, any person who has experience or expertise in the development, design, or execution of cybersecurity competitions.
(2)
Limitation
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to consultations pursuant to this section.
(3)
Prohibition
A person with whom the Director consults under paragraph (1) may not—
(A)
receive pay by reason of being so consulted; or
(B)
be considered an employee of the Federal Government by reason of so consulting.
(c)
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in the competition, an individual shall be a Federal civilian employee or member of the uniformed services (as such term is defined in section 2101(3) of title 5, United States Code) and shall comply with any rules promulgated by the Director regarding the competition.
(d)
Competition administration
The Director may enter into a grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or other agreement with a private sector for-profit or nonprofit entity or State or local government agency to administer the competition.
(e)
Funding
(1)
In general
Support for the competition, including financial support for the design and administration of the competition or funds for a cash prize, may consist of—
(A)
amounts appropriated pursuant to appropriations Acts or otherwise made available for such purpose; and
(B)
in accordance with paragraph (2), funds provided by other Federal agencies, States, United States territories, local governments, federally recognized Tribal governments, or private sector for-profit or nonprofit entities.
(2)
Request
The Director may request and accept funds from other Federal agencies, States, United States territories, local governments, federally recognized Tribal governments, and private sector for-profit and nonprofit entities.
(3)
Obligation and expenditure
Funds accepted pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be credited to, and in addition to, any amounts appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) to carry out this section, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director, may obligate and expend such funds for such purpose—
(A)
without regard to specific authorization relating thereto provided in advance in an appropriations Act; and
(B)
not subject to any condition or purpose relating thereto specified in such appropriations Act.
(f)
Use of funds
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director may use funds available for carrying out the competition authorized under this section for the following:
(1)
Advertising, marketing, and promoting the competition.
(2)
Meals for participants and organizers of the competition if attendance at the meal during the competition is necessary to maintain the integrity of the competition.
(3)
Promotional items, including merchandise and apparel.
(4)
Monetary and nonmonetary awards for competition participants, including members of the uniformed services.
(5)
Necessary expenses for the honorary recognition of competition participants, including members of the uniformed services.
(6)
Any other appropriate activity necessary to carry out the competition, as determined by the Director.
(g)
Prize limitation
The Director may make one or more awards per competition, except that the amount or value of each shall not exceed $10,000. The Secretary of Homeland Security may make one or more awards per competition, except the amount or the value of each shall not to exceed $25,000. A monetary award under this section shall be in addition to the regular pay of the recipient.
