1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Russian Travel Sanctions for a Democratic Ukraine Act
.
2.
Sanctions on certain citizens of the Russian Federation and their family members
(a)
In general
As a result of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine, the President, in coordination with other North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member states and other allies, shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to individuals described in subsection (b).
(b)
Individuals described
The individuals described in this subsection are individuals—
(1)
who—
(A)
are citizens of the Russian Federation; and
(B)
(i)
are Russian Federation oligarchs, as determined by the President;
(ii)
are employees of the Government of the Russian Federation at any level;
(iii)
are employees of companies owned by the Government of the Russian Federation, as determined by the President; or
(iv)
are employees of companies that receive funding from the Government of the Russian Federation, as determined by the President; and
(2)
who are family members of individuals described in paragraph (1).
(c)
Sanctions described
(1)
Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole
An individual determined by the President to be subject to subsection (a) is—
(A)
inadmissible to the United States;
(B)
ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and
(C)
otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.
).
(2)
Current visas revoked
An individual described in paragraph (1) is also subject to the following:
(A)
Revocation of any visa or other entry documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is or was issued.
(B)
A revocation under subparagraph (A) shall take effect immediately and automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the foreign person’s possession.
(d)
Waiver for national security interests
(1)
In general
The President may waive the application of subsection (a) or (b) in the case of an individual if—
(A)
the President determines that such a waiver—
(i)
is necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or other applicable international obligations of the United States; or
(ii)
is in the national security interests of the United States; and
(B)
prior to granting such a waiver, the President provides to Congress notice of, and a justification for, the waiver.
(2)
Timing for certain waivers
Notification under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) shall be made not later than 15 days prior to granting a waiver under such paragraph if the President grants such waiver in the national security interests of the United States in accordance with subparagraph (A)(ii) of such paragraph.
(e)
Regulatory authority
The President shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out this section.
