1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Coast Guard Intelligence Operations Improvement Act of 2022
.
2.
Authorization relating to certain intelligence and counterintelligence activities of Coast Guard
(a)
Authorization
Subject to subsection (b), and consistent with the policies, procedures, and coordination required pursuant to section 811 of the Counterintelligence and Security Enhancements Act of 1994 (
50 U.S.C. 3381
) and section 902 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002 (
50 U.S.C. 3382
), the Commandant of the Coast Guard may expend amounts made available for the intelligence and counterintelligence activities of the Coast Guard to conduct such an activity without regard to any other provision of law or regulation relating to the expenditure of Government funds, if—
(1)
the object of the activity is of a confidential, extraordinary, or emergency nature; and
(2)
following each such expenditure, the Commandant submits to the congressional intelligence committees a certification that the object of the activity conducted was of a nature described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Limitation
Of the funds made available for a fiscal year for the intelligence and counterintelligence activities of the Coast Guard, not more than five percent may be expended during the fiscal year under subsection (a) to conduct such activities in accordance with such subsection unless, for each intended expenditure in excess of such percentage—
(1)
the Commandant submits to the congressional intelligence committees a notification of the intent to expend the amounts; and
(2)
a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which the Commandant submits such notification.
(c)
Annual report
(1)
Submission
Not later than December 1 of each year, the Commandant shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on all expenditures during the preceding fiscal year under subsection (a).
(2)
Matters
Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, for each individual expenditure covered by such report that is in excess of the percentage specified in subsection (b) for the relevant fiscal year, the following:
(A)
A detailed description of the purpose of such expenditure.
(B)
The amount of such expenditure.
(C)
An identification of the approving authority for such expenditure.
(D)
A justification as to why other authorities available to the Coast Guard could not be used for such expenditure.
(E)
Any other matters the Commandant considers appropriate.
(d)
Congressional intelligence committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional intelligence committees
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
(e)
Sunset
This section shall cease to have effect on the date that is 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
