1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bridge Corrosion Prevention and Repair Act
.
2.
Corrosion prevention for bridges
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable bridge projects
The term
applicable bridge projects
means a project for construction, replacement, rehabilitation, preservation, or protection, other than de minimis work, as determined by the applicable State department of transportation, on a bridge project that receives financial assistance under title 23, United States Code.
(2)
Certified Contractor
The term
certified contractor
means a contracting or subcontracting firm that has been certified by an industry-wide recognized third-party organization that evaluates the capability of the contractor or subcontractor to properly perform 1 or more specified aspects of applicable bridge projects described in subsection (b)(2).
(3)
Qualified training program
The term
qualified training program
means a training program in corrosion control, mitigation, and prevention that is either—
(A)
offered or accredited by an organization that sets industry corrosion standards; or
(B)
an industrial coatings applicator training program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (
29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.
; commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
), that meets the standards of subpart A of part 29 and part 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)
Applicable Bridge Projects
(1)
Quality control
A certified contractor shall carry out aspects of an applicable bridge project described in paragraph (2).
(2)
Aspects of applicable bridge projects
Aspects of an applicable bridge project referred to in paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
surface preparation or coating application on steel or rebar of an applicable bridge project;
(B)
removal of a lead-based or other hazardous coating from steel of an existing applicable bridge project; and
(C)
shop painting of structural steel or rebar fabricated for installation on an applicable bridge project.
(3)
Corrosion management system
In carrying out an applicable bridge project, a State department of transportation shall—
(A)
implement a corrosion management system that utilizes industry-recognized standards and corrosion mitigation and prevention methods to address—
(i)
surface preparation;
(ii)
protective coatings;
(iii)
materials selection;
(iv)
cathodic protection;
(v)
corrosion engineering;
(vi)
personnel training; and
(vii)
best practices in environmental protection to prevent environmental degradation and uphold public health; and
(B)
require certified contractors, for the purpose of carrying out aspects of applicable bridge projects described in paragraph (2), to employ a substantial number of individuals that are trained and certified by a qualified training program as meeting the ANSI/NACE Number 13/SSPC–ACS–1 standard or future versions of this standard.
(4)
Certification
The applicable State department of transportation shall only accept bids for projects that include aspects of applicable bridge projects described in paragraph (2) from a certified contractor that presents written proof that the certification of such contractor meets the relevant SSPC–QP standards or future versions of these standards.
(c)
Training program
As a condition of entering into a contract for an applicable bridge project, each certified contractor shall provide training for each individual who is not a certified coating applicator but that the certified contractor employs to carry out aspects of applicable bridge projects as described in subsection (b)(2).
