1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
TSA Security Threat Assessment Application Modernization Act
.
2.
Standardization of applications for certain programs of the Transportation Security Administration
(a)
Standardization
(1)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) shall take such actions as are necessary to standardize the enrollment and renewal system for individuals applying for or renewing more than one TSA Security Threat Assessment program, including the TWIC, HAZMAT Endorsement, and TSA PreCheck programs of the Administration (or any related successor programs), to permit an individual to—
(A)
except as provided in paragraph (3), enroll at a TSA-designated universal enrollment center once and use the application, as well as the application generated by TSA’s vetting, including criminal history information, for one of such programs to enroll in two or more of such programs;
(B)
apply successful, valid clearance results from a TSA Security Threat Assessment to satisfy vetting requirements for participation in any TSA Security Threat Assessment program; and
(C)
undergo a streamlined and expeditious renewal process.
(2)
Streamlining
In carrying out paragraph (1)(B), the Administrator of the TSA shall—
(A)
align the expiration of an individual’s successful, valid clearance results with the expiration of that individual’s eligibility to participate in TSA Security Threat Assessment programs; and
(B)
enroll an individual in two or more TSA Security Threat Assessment programs without additional cost to the individual.
(3)
Special rule
If an individual under subsection (a) is at different times applying for or renewing enrollment in more than one TSA Security Threat Assessment program, such individual may be required to revisit a TSA-designated universal enrollment center for the collection of additional data, such as biometrics, necessary for any such program that were not so collected in connection with any other such program.
(b)
Publication
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall post on a publicly available webpage of the Administration information relating to the standardization of the enrollment system for individuals applying for multiple TSA Security Threat Assessment programs described in subsection (a).
(c)
Briefing
Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall brief Congress on progress made toward the implementation of this section.
(d)
Deadline
Not later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall complete the standardization of the enrollment and renewal system for individuals applying for or renewing multiple TSA Security Threat Assessment programs described in subsection (a).
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
HAZMAT Endorsement
The term
HAZMAT Endorsement
means a hazardous materials endorsement on a commercial driver’s license issued by a State under section 5103a of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
TSA PreCheck
The term
TSA PreCheck
means the trusted traveler program of the Transportation Security Administration under section 109(a)(3) of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (
49 U.S.C. 114
note) and section 44919 of title 49, United States Code.
(3)
TWIC
The term
TWIC
means a valid transportation security card issued by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating under section 70105 of title 46, United States Code.
