1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
PFAS Reference Standards Act
.
2.
EPA requirement for submission of analytical reference standards for PFAS
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall require each covered entity to submit to the Administrator an analytical reference standard for each chemical substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom manufactured by the covered entity after the date that is 10 years prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Uses
The Administrator may—
(1)
use an analytical reference standard submitted under this section only for—
(A)
the development of information, protocols, and methodologies, which may be carried out by an entity determined appropriate by the Administrator; or
(B)
activities relating to the implementation or enforcement of Federal requirements; and
(2)
provide an analytical reference standard submitted under this section to a State, to be used only for—
(A)
the development of information, protocols, and methodologies, which may be carried out by an entity determined appropriate by the State; or
(B)
activities relating to the implementation or enforcement of State requirements.
(c)
Prohibition
No person receiving an analytical reference standard submitted under this section may use or transfer the analytical reference standard for a commercial purpose.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Chemical substance
The term
chemical substance
means any organic or inorganic substance of a particular molecular identity.
(3)
Covered entity
The term
covered entity
means a manufacturer of a chemical substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(4)
Manufacture; State
The terms
manufacture
and
State
have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (
15 U.S.C. 2602
).
