1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Presidential Records Certification Act of 2022
.
2.
Certifications regarding certain Presidential and Vice Presidential records
(a)
Amendment
Chapter 22
of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
2210.
Certifications regarding certain Presidential and Vice Presidential records
(a)
Certification
On an annual basis, and within 30 days after the applicable end date, the President, Vice President, any individual acting as the President, and each covered employee shall submit a written certification to the Counsel to the President—
(1)
indicating compliance with this chapter during the year prior to the submission of the certification; and
(2)
acknowledging that it is unlawful to knowingly and willingly falsify or fail to file any information that such person is required to include in the certification.
(b)
Submission
The Counsel to the President shall collect and maintain all certifications submitted to the Counsel under subsection (a).
(c)
Failure To file or filing false reports
The Attorney General may bring a civil action in any appropriate United States district court against an individual who knowingly and willfully falsifies or who knowingly and willfully fails to file or report any information required pursuant to subsection (a). The court in which such action is brought may assess against such individual a civil penalty in any amount, not to exceed $50,000.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered employee
The term
covered employee
has the meaning given that term in section 2209.
(2)
End date
The term
end date
means—
(A)
with respect to the President or the Vice President, the date on which the President or the Vice President, respectively, is removed from office, dies, resigns, or the then current Presidential term expires;
(B)
with respect to an individual acting as the President, the date on which such individual may no longer discharge the powers and duties of the office of President; and
(C)
with respect to a covered employee, the date on which such individual ceases to be a covered employee.
(3)
Individual acting as the President
The term
individual acting as the President
means an individual, other than the Vice President, who assumes the powers and duties of the office of President pursuant to a vacancy in the office of President by reason of death, resignation, removal from office, or inability.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 22
of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
2210. Certifications regarding certain Presidential and Vice Presidential records.
.
