1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Planning for Animal Wellness Act
or the
PAW Act
.
2.
Working group guidelines
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(2)
Working group
The term
working group
means the advisory working group established under subsection (b).
(b)
Working group
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish an advisory working group.
(c)
Membership
The working group shall consist of—
(1)
not less than 2 representatives of State governments with experience in animal emergency management;
(2)
not less than 2 representatives of local governments with experience in animal emergency management;
(3)
not less than 2 representatives from academia;
(4)
not less than 2 veterinary experts;
(5)
not less than 2 representatives from nonprofit organizations working to address the needs of households pets and service animals in emergencies or disasters;
(6)
representatives from the Federal Animal Emergency Management Working Group; and
(7)
any other members determined necessary by the Administrator.
(d)
Duties
The working group shall—
(1)
encourage and foster collaborative efforts among individuals and entities working to address the needs of household pets, service and assistance animals, and captive animals, as appropriate, in emergency and disaster preparedness, response, and recovery; and
(2)
review best practices and Federal guidance, as of the date of enactment of this Act, on congregate and noncongregate sheltering and evacuation planning relating to the needs of household pets, service and assistance animals, and captive animals, as appropriate, in emergency and disaster preparedness, response, and recovery.
(e)
Guidance determination
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the working group shall determine whether the best practices and Federal guidance described in subsection (d)(2) are sufficient.
(f)
New guidance
Not later than 540 days after the date of enactment of this Act, if the Administrator, in consultation with the working group, determines that the best practices and Federal guidance described in paragraph subsection (d)(2) are insufficient, the Administrator, in consultation with the working group, shall publish updated Federal guidance.
