1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Act of 2022
.
2.
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a grant program to be known as the
Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant Program
, to award grants for the purposes described in subsection (c).
(b)
Designation of stranding regions
The Secretary shall designate geographic regions of the United States as stranding regions for the purposes of carrying out this section.
(c)
Purposes
The purposes of the Program are to provide for—
(1)
the recovery, care, or treatment of stranded marine turtles;
(2)
the collection of data and samples from stranded marine turtles for scientific research or assessments regarding marine turtle health; and
(3)
facility operation costs that are directly related to activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d)
Equitable distribution of funds
The Secretary shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that funds awarded under this section are distributed equitably among stranding regions, taking into account—
(1)
the number of stranding events that occurred in each stranding region in the preceding year;
(2)
the average number of stranding events per stranding region per year;
(3)
the size of marine turtle populations in each stranding region; and
(4)
the conservation and recovery of species of marine turtles that are threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
).
(e)
Application
An applicant for a grant under this section shall submit an application in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe.
(f)
Grant criteria
(1)
Development of criteria
The Secretary shall, in consultation with a representative from each stranding region and representatives of public and private organizations that are actively involved in rescue, rehabilitation, release, scientific research, marine conservation, and forensic science with respect to stranded marine turtles, develop criteria for awarding grants under this section.
(2)
Required criteria
The criteria developed under paragraph (1) shall prioritize applicants with an established record of rescuing or rehabilitating stranded marine turtles.
(g)
Limitations
(1)
Maximum amount of grant
No grant awarded under this section may exceed $150,000 in any 12-month period.
(2)
Matching requirement
The non-Federal share of the costs of an activity conducted with a grant awarded under the Program shall be not less than 25 percent of such costs, including in-kind services and the use of property.
(h)
Administrative cost
The Secretary may not expend to administer the Program in a fiscal year an amount greater than—
(1)
6 percent of the amount awarded in grants under this section in such fiscal year; or
(2)
$80,000.
(i)
Transparency
The Secretary shall publish each grant proposal and approved grant under this section.
(j)
Receive gifts
Notwithstanding section 3113 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary may accept gifts in cash or in-kind to be used to carry out the purposes of this section.
(k)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2028 to remain available until expended.
(l)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Marine turtle
The term
marine turtle
means any member of the family Cheloniidae or Dermochelyidae.
(2)
Program
The term
Program
means the Sea Turtle Rescue Assistance Grant Program established under subsection (a).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(4)
Stranding
The term
stranding
means an event in the wild in which—
(A)
a marine turtle is dead and is—
(i)
on a beach or shore of the United States; or
(ii)
in waters under the jurisdiction of the United States (including any navigable waters); or
(B)
a marine turtle is alive and is—
(i)
on a beach or shore of the United States and unable to return to the water;
(ii)
on a beach or shore of the United States and in need of medical attention; or
(iii)
in the waters under the jurisdiction of the United States (including any navigable waters), but is unable to return to its natural habitat under its own power or without assistance.
(5)
Stranding region
The term
stranding region
means a geographic region designated by the Secretary under subsection (b).
