1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Water Design-Build Improvement Act of 2022
.
2.
Collaborative project delivery methods
Section 5028 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (
33 U.S.C. 3907
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Collaborative project delivery methods
(1)
Authorization
The Secretary or the Administrator, as applicable, may select, in accordance with this section, a project to be carried out using a collaborative project delivery method (consistent with any applicable State or local law), including a construction management at-risk method and a design-build method.
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Collaborative project delivery method
The term
collaborative project delivery method
means a method for carrying out a capital project that involves close collaboration among the eligible entity, the owner of the project (if different from the eligible entity), the designer of the project, and the contractor for the project, from design through completion of construction.
(B)
Construction management at-risk method
The term
construction management at-risk method
means a collaborative project delivery method in which an engineering firm and a construction management at-risk firm are retained under 2 separate contracts for design and construction, respectively.
(C)
Design-build method
The term
design-build method
means a collaborative project delivery method under which a single lead contract is entered into with a design-builder for design and construction.
.
3.
Study on the use of collaborative project delivery methods
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in coordination with the Regional Administrators, and the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, shall carry out, and make public the results of, a study that—
(1)
evaluates the use of collaborative project delivery methods in projects carried out using assistance received under the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (
33 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.
);
(2)
determines barriers to increased use of collaborative project delivery methods in such projects;
(3)
assesses the potential benefits of using collaborative project delivery methods in such projects; and
(4)
identifies areas of need to educate agency staff in collaborative project delivery method implementation and best practices.
