1.
Short title; table of contents
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023
.
(b)
Table of contents
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Title I—Intelligence activities
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified schedule of authorizations.
Sec. 103. Intelligence community management account.
Title II—Central intelligence agency retirement and disability system
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Title III—General intelligence community matters
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by law.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Congressional intelligence committees
The term
congressional intelligence committees
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
(2)
Intelligence community
The term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
I
Intelligence activities
101.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2023 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the following elements of the United States Government:
(1)
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3)
The Department of Defense.
(4)
The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5)
The National Security Agency.
(6)
The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force.
(7)
The Coast Guard.
(8)
The Department of State.
(9)
The Department of the Treasury.
(10)
The Department of Energy.
(11)
The Department of Justice.
(12)
The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13)
The Drug Enforcement Administration.
(14)
The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15)
The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
(16)
The Department of Homeland Security.
102.
Classified schedule of authorizations
(a)
Specifications of amounts
The amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 101 for the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany this Act.
(b)
Availability of classified schedule of authorizations
(1)
Availability
The classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the President.
(2)
Distribution by the president
Subject to paragraph (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3)
Limits on disclosure
The President shall not publicly disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of such Schedule except—
(A)
as provided in section 601(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (
50 U.S.C. 3306(a)
);
(B)
to the extent necessary to implement the budget; or
(C)
as otherwise required by law.
103.
Intelligence community management account
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2023 the sum of $666,800,000.
(b)
Classified authorization of appropriations
In addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for fiscal year 2023 such additional amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a).
II
Central intelligence agency retirement and disability system
201.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
III
General intelligence community matters
301.
Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities
The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
302.
Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by law
Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
