1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Housing Temperature Safety Act of 2022
.
2.
Temperature sensors
(a)
Installation and maintenance
(1)
In general
Each owner of a covered federally assisted rental dwelling unit shall, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, ensure that, at all times pursuant to paragraph (2), such temperature sensors are installed and maintained in accordance with the rule issued by the Secretary under paragraph (3) on each level of such dwelling unit owned by such owner.
(2)
Rulemaking
The Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, issue a rule that establishes standards and requirements for the installation and maintenance of temperature sensors in covered federally assisted rental dwelling units.
(b)
Data reporting
(1)
In general
Each owner of a covered federally assisted rental dwelling unit shall, 6 times each day, collect data from temperature sensors installed pursuant to subsection (a) and such data shall include the temperature recorded during each temperature reading and the time and date of each temperature reading.
(2)
Guidance
The Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, publish guidance with respect to—
(A)
the collection of temperature sensor data by owners of covered federally assisted rental dwelling units, including the protection of personally identifiable information;
(B)
the retention of such data by such owners for not less than 2 years; and
(C)
the reporting of such data to the Secretary unless a tenant of the covered federally assisted dwelling unit has opted out of having such data reported by the owner to the Secretary.
(c)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress that—
(1)
describes the status of the implementation of subsection (a), and includes—
(A)
the percentage of covered federally assisted dwelling units without a temperature sensor pursuant to subsection (b);
(B)
the percentage of temperature sensors that have been installed by owners of covered federally assisted dwelling units; and
(C)
the number of fatalities that occurred due to fire, hypothermia, heat exhaustion, and other temperature-related causes in covered dwelling units and whether a temperature sensor was present in such dwelling unit; and
(2)
discloses the results of data collection instituted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development before the date of the enactment of this Act to determine the prevalence of temperature sensors in covered federally assisted dwelling units.
(d)
Relation to State law
This section does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any person subject to the provisions of this section from complying with, the laws of any State with respect to installing or maintaining temperature sensors, except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of this section, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. The Secretary is authorized to determine whether such inconsistencies exist and may not determine that any State law is inconsistent with any provision of this section if the Secretary determines that such law provides for greater protection or safety.
(e)
Definitions
For the purposes of this Act:
(1)
Assistance
The term
assistance
means any grant, loan, subsidy, contract, cooperative agreement, or other form of financial assistance, but such term does not include the insurance or guarantee of a loan, mortgage, or pool of loans or mortgages.
(2)
Temperature sensor
The term
temperature sensor
means an internet capable temperature reporting device able to track the ambient air temperature to the tenth degree Fahrenheit and Celsius.
(3)
Covered Federally assisted housing
The term
covered federally assisted rental dwelling unit
means a residential dwelling unit that is made available for rental and for which assistance is provided, or that is part of a housing project for which assistance is provided, under—
(A)
the public housing program under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.
);
(B)
the programs for rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437f
), including—
(i)
the program for project-based rental assistance; and
(ii)
the program for tenant-based rental assistance;
(C)
the AIDS Housing Opportunities program under subtitle D of title VIII of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.
);
(D)
the program for supportive housing for the elderly under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (
12 U.S.C. 1701q
); or
(E)
the program for supportive housing for persons with disabilities under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 8013
); and
(F)
the programs under sections 514, 515, and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949.
(4)
Owner
The term
owner
means, with respect to a covered federally assisted rental dwelling unit, any private person or entity, including a cooperative, an agency of the Federal Government, or a public housing agency, having the legal right to lease or sublease dwelling units.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act.
