1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Peer-to-Peer Suicide Prevention Act
.
2.
Peer-to-peer suicide prevention grant program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall establish a program (in this section, referred to as the
Program
) to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities for the purpose of facilitating peer-to-peer suicide prevention programs for middle school and high school students.
(b)
Applications
To be eligible to receive a grant under the Program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Use of amounts
An eligible entity may only use grant amounts provided under the Program to—
(1)
assist an existing peer-to-peer suicide prevention program; or
(2)
establish a new peer-to-peer suicide prevention program.
(d)
Relationship to other Federal programs
An eligible entity that receives a grant under the Program may combine such grant with other Federal funds awarded to support the activities carried out with the grant.
(e)
Awarding of grants
(1)
Priority
In awarding grants under the Program, the Secretary shall give priority to the following:
(A)
Eligible entities not previously awarded a grant under the Program.
(B)
Eligible entities proposing to use grant amounts to establish a new peer-to-peer suicide prevention program.
(C)
Eligible entities that demonstrate the ability to provide peer-to-peer suicide prevention programming that is evidence-informed.
(D)
Eligible entities that demonstrate the ability to provide peer-to-peer suicide prevention programming that is culturally and linguistically competent.
(E)
Peer-to-peer suicide prevention programs focused primarily on student, rather than teacher, training.
(2)
Grant amounts
A grant awarded to an eligible entity under the Program may not exceed $5,000.
(f)
Coordination with SAMHSA
The Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for purposes of developing the Program and selecting eligible entities to receive grants under Program.
(g)
Evaluation process
The Secretary shall develop and implement a process to evaluate the performance of eligible entities that receive grants under the Program. The Secretary shall ensure that the evaluation process incorporates input from students.
(h)
Technical assistance
The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health and Human Services (acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) shall carry out a program to provide technical assistance to eligible entities applying for and receiving grants under this section, which shall include the development and dissemination of best practices for peer-to-peer suicide prevention programs.
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 each fiscal year.
(j)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means any of the following that serve at least one school that provides education at the middle school or high school level:
(A)
A local educational agency (including a charter school that is a local educational agency).
(B)
An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)) or a Tribal educational agency.
(C)
The Bureau of Indian Education.
(2)
ESEA Terms
The terms
high school
and
local educational agency
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
Peer-to-peer suicide prevention program
The term
peer-to-peer suicide prevention program
means a program that—
(A)
provides students and adult advisors the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and appropriately respond to the signs of suicide and depression;
(B)
includes an in-person training component, when practicable; and
(C)
is student-led.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
