1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Student Loan Relief for Medicare and Social Security Recipients Act of 2022
.
2.
Federal student loan forgiveness for borrowers enrolled in Medicare
(a)
Forgiveness required
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Education shall forgive the outstanding balance of principal, interest, and fees due on the eligible Federal student loans of borrowers who meet the requirements of subsection (b).
(b)
Eligibility
A borrower is eligible to receive forgiveness under this section if, at the time of application for forgiveness, such borrower is—
(1)
enrolled for benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq.
); or
(2)
in the 24-month waiting period for such benefits as described under section 226(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 426(b)
).
(c)
Application
A borrower seeking forgiveness under this section shall submit to the Secretary of Education an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(d)
Method of loan forgiveness
As soon as practicable after the Secretary of Education confirms that an applicant meets the requirements of subsection (b), the Secretary of Education shall—
(1)
for each eligible Federal student loan of the borrower that is held by the Department of Education, cancel the outstanding balance of principal, interest, and fees due on the loan; and
(2)
for each eligible Federal student loan of the borrower that is not held by the Department of Education—
(A)
through the holder of a loan, assume the obligation to repay the outstanding balance of principal, interest, and fees due on the loan; and
(B)
upon assuming such obligation, cancel the outstanding balance of such principal, interest, and fees.
(e)
Repayment refunds prohibited
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the refund of any payments made by a borrower on an eligible Federal student before the date on which the borrower’s loans are forgiven in accordance with this section.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible Federal student loan
The term
eligible Federal student loan
means a loan—
(A)
received by a borrower at least 10 years before the date on which such borrower applies for forgiveness under subsection (c);
(B)
used to pay for—
(i)
the undergraduate or graduate education of the borrower; or
(ii)
in the case of a loan made to a parent on behalf of a dependent student, the undergraduate or graduate education of such dependent student; and
(C)
made, insured, or guaranteed under—
(i)
part B, part D, or part E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.
), including a consolidation loan; or
(ii)
part E of title VIII of the Public Health Service Act.
(2)
Fees
The term
fees
means any amounts owed by a borrower, other than principal and interest, on an eligible Federal student loan, including the amounts of any outstanding administrative fees, late charges, and collection costs.
(3)
Graduate education
The term
graduate education
means a postbaccalaureate program of study that leads to a graduate degree, including a master's or doctoral degree.
(4)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
(5)
Undergraduate education
The term
undergraduate education
means a postsecondary program of study at an institution of higher education that leads to a certificate, associate degree, or baccalaureate degree.
