1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Apprenticeship Support for Small Employers and Teams Act
or the
ASSET Act
.
2.
Authorization of grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements
The Administrator of the Office of Apprenticeship of the Department of Labor shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to eligible entities on a competitive basis for the following purposes:
(1)
Encouraging employer participation
To encourage employer participation in apprenticeship programs—
(A)
that target individuals with barriers to employment in youth apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, or apprenticeship programs, prioritizing nontraditional apprenticeship populations such as women, minorities, long-term unemployed, individuals with a disability, individuals with substance abuse issues, veterans, military spouses, individuals experiencing homelessness, individuals impacted by the criminal or juvenile justice system, and foster and former foster youth;
(B)
that are in high-need social service-related industries, sectors, or occupations, such as direct care workers and early childhood educators;
(C)
that target individuals currently or recently incarcerated; or
(D)
among small- and medium-sized employers.
(2)
In-demand industry sector or occupation grants for small- and medium-sized businesses
An eligible entity that receives funds under this section shall use such funds to encourage participation of small- and medium-sized businesses in apprenticeship programs, which may include—
(A)
providing financial assistance to employers to support costs related to the programs, such as training incumbent workers as mentors or employees supervising the on-the-job learning;
(B)
supporting the cost of related instruction or wages for program participants during related instruction;
(C)
providing technical assistance to small- and medium-sized businesses on the program registration process and leveraging other available funds to support carrying out such programs; or
(D)
establishing or expanding partnerships to support program development or expansion, including establishing or expanding industry or sector partnerships to ensure inclusion of small- and medium-sized businesses.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Apprenticeship program
The term
apprenticeship program
means an apprenticeship registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.
).
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a program sponsor;
(B)
a State workforce development board or State workforce agency, or a local workforce development board or local workforce development agency;
(C)
an education and training provider, or a consortium thereof;
(D)
a State apprenticeship agency;
(E)
an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization;
(F)
an industry or sector partnership, a group of employers, a trade association, or a professional association that sponsors an apprenticeship program;
(G)
a Governor;
(H)
a labor organization or joint labor management organization; or
(I)
a qualified intermediary.
