1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering Malign Russian Activities Globally Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States—
(1)
should regularly assess the scale and scope of the Russian Federation’s influence and activities that undermine United States objectives and interests in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East, each of which is experiencing such influence and activities to varying degrees, and other regions as appropriate; and
(2)
determine how—
(A)
to address and counter such influence and activities effectively, including through appropriate United States foreign assistance programs; and
(B)
to hold accountable the Russian Federation and other foreign governments and their officials who are complicit in aiding such malign influence and activities.
3.
Regional strategy and implementation plan; annual report
(a)
Strategy and implementation plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a regional strategy and implementation plan outlining United States efforts to counter the malign influence and activities of the Russian Federation and its proxies in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate, including programs and other initiatives designed to—
(1)
strengthen democratic institutions, improve government transparency and accountability, improve standards related to human rights, labor, anti-corruption initiatives, fiscal transparency, monitor the use and beneficiaries of natural resources and extractive industries, and other tenets of good governance; and
(2)
monitor and report on Russian political influence and disinformation operations and the activities of Russian, Russia-connected, or Russian-funded private military contractors.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies as appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the regional strategy and implementation plan required by subsection (a) and related efforts to counter the malign influence and activities of the Russian Federation and its proxies in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of the scope and nature of the Russian Federation’s malign influence and activities and related diplomatic, economic, and security priorities and strategic objectives of such engagement in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate, including influence and activities that involve Russian proxies, such as Russian oligarchs, Russian-funded private military contractors, and other individuals and entities directly or indirectly employed by or financially or politically associated with Russia and its officials, who are involved in or aid activities to, among other things—
(i)
manipulate foreign governments and their policies, as well as the public opinions and voting preferences of their respective populations and diaspora groups, including those in the United States; and
(ii)
invest in, engage, or otherwise control strategic sectors in identified regions, including mining and other forms of natural resource extraction and exploitation, military basing and other security cooperation agreements, and information and communications technology.
(B)
A detailed account of United States foreign assistance and other initiatives developed and implemented during the preceding 3 fiscal years to address Russia’s malign influence and activities in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate, including the objectives and details of planned programs and initiatives set out in the strategy required by subsection (a).
(C)
An analysis of policy and programmatic limitations, gaps, and resource requirements to effectively counter Russia’s malign influence and activities in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate.
(D)
An overview of other initiatives and assistance programs funded by other international donors and partner countries to counter Russia’s malign influence and activities in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate.
(E)
An identification of governments and government officials in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and other regions as appropriate, Russian government officials, and other individuals and entities that have facilitated payments and other prohibited activities that benefit United States-sanctioned individuals and entities tied to Russia, including in violation of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of title XII of
Public Law 114–328
;
22 U.S.C. 2656
note), the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (
Public Law 115–44
;
22 U.S.C. 9401 et seq.
), Executive Order 14024 (86 Fed. Reg. 20249; relating to blocking property with respect to specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation), and Executive Order 13848 (83 Fed. Reg. 46843; relating to imposing certain sanctions in the event of foreign interference in a United States election), and a detailed overview of United States efforts to hold such governments, officials, and other individuals and entities complicit in violating or facilitating the evasion of United States sanctions against Russia and its proxies accountable through sanctions or other restrictions.
(F)
An identification of foreign companies and persons that have provided transportation, logistical, administrative, border crossing, or money transfer services to Russian mercenaries or armed forces operating on behalf of the Russian Government in Libya, and an analysis of whether such entities meet the criteria for imposition of sanctions under section 1(a) of Executive Order 13726 (81 Fed. Reg. 23559; relating to blocking property and suspending entry into the United States of persons contributing to the situation in Libya).
(3)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
4.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
