1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Petroleum Price Reduction Act
.
2.
Control of and prohibition on the export of crude oil and finished oil products (other than natural gas) under the Export Control Reform Act of 2018
(a)
In general
Section 1754 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (
50 U.S.C. 4813
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Control of and prohibition on export of crude oil and finished oil products (other than natural gas)
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law (other than the provisions of this subtitle), the President shall control and prohibit the export of crude oil and finished oil products (other than natural gas) from the United States under the authority of section 1753 at any time if the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the closing price of front month contracts for West Texas Intermediate crude oil—
(A)
has exceeded $70 per barrel for three consecutive trading days;
(B)
has exceeded $70 per barrel for five of the preceding 10 trading days; or
(C)
has exceeded $80 per barrel at any time.
(2)
Termination
The President may terminate the imposition of the prohibition required by paragraph (1) if the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that—
(A)
the closing price of front month contracts for West Texas Intermediate crude oil has not exceeded $70 per barrel for 15 consecutive trading days; and
(B)
the current, available supply of crude oil in the United States is stable or increasing.
(3)
Adjustment for inflation
(A)
In general
The President may adjust the dollar amounts specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) and paragraph (2)(A) on the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and at the beginning of each fiscal year thereafter, to reflect the percentage (if any) of the increase in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the preceding 12-month period compared to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal year 2021.
(B)
Consumer Price Index defined
In this paragraph, the term
Consumer Price Index
means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.
(4)
Waiver
(A)
In general
The President may waive the imposition of the prohibition required by paragraph (1) with respect to—
(i)
the export of crude oil or finished oil products (other than natural gas) pursuant to a contract or other legally binding obligation of an exporter that is in force as of the time the prohibition is to go into effect; and
(ii)
the export of crude oil or finished oil products (other than natural gas) to any foreign country if the President determines that it is in the national security interests of the United States to do so.
(B)
Congressional certification
The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a certification with respect to each exercise of the waiver authority pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(5)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
