1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving Abortion Facilities from Extremists for Patients Act
or the
SAFE for Patients Act
.
2.
Cause of action with respect to reproductive health services
(a)
Cause of action
Any person may bring a civil action against any person who—
(1)
intentionally damages or destroys the property of a facility that provides reproductive health services, or attempts to do so, because such facility provides reproductive health services;
(2)
by force or threat of force or by physical obstruction intentionally harasses, injures, intimidates, or interferes with a person because that person is providing or obtaining reproductive health services; or
(3)
knowingly engages in conduct that aids or abets the performance of an action described pursuant to paragraphs (1) or (2).
(b)
Award of damages
If a claimant prevails on an action brought under subsection (a), the court shall award—
(1)
injunctive relief sufficient to prevent the defendant from further violation of subsection (a) or engaging in acts that aid or abet a violation of subsection (a);
(2)
statutory damages in an amount of not less than $10,000 per violation of subsection (a); and
(3)
costs and attorney’s fees.
(c)
Not a defense
Notwithstanding any other law, the following shall not be a defense for a violation of subsection (a):
(1)
Ignorance or mistake of law.
(2)
A defendant’s belief that the requirements of this section are unconstitutional or were unconstitutional.
(3)
A defendant’s reliance on any court decision that has been overruled on appeal or by a subsequent court, even if that court decision had not been overruled when the defendant engaged in conduct that violates this section.
(4)
A defendant’s reliance on any State or Federal court decision that is not binding on the court in which the action has been brought.
(5)
Non-mutual issue preclusion or non-mutual claim preclusion.
(d)
Statute of limitations
A person may bring an action under this section not later than the four years after the date on which the violation of subsection (a) occurred.
(e)
Reproductive health services defined
In this section, the term
reproductive health services
shall have the meaning given such term in section 248 of title 18, United States Code.
