1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Pay Until Peace Act
.
2.
Requiring withholding of pay of Members of Congress if mass shooting occurs
(a)
Reduction of pay
If during any month of a year a mass shooting occurs in the United States, the annual rate of pay applicable under section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 4501
) with respect to each Member of Congress for the year shall be reduced by an amount equal to the product of—
(1)
an amount equal to one month’s worth of pay under such annual rate; and
(2)
the number of months during the year during which a mass shooting occurs in the United States.
(b)
Effective date
This section shall apply with respect to days occurring after the date of the regularly scheduled general election for Federal office held in November 2022.
3.
Special rule for One Hundred Seventeenth Congress
(a)
In general
(1)
Holding salaries in escrow
If a mass shooting occurs in the United States during a pay period occurring during a session of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress after the date of the enactment of this Act, the payroll administrator of each House of Congress shall—
(A)
deposit in an escrow account the compensation for such pay period of each Member of Congress who serves in that House of Congress; and
(B)
release amounts deposited in an escrow account under subparagraph (A) to such Member of Congress on the last day of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress.
(2)
Withholding and remittance of amounts from payments held in escrow
The payroll administrator of each House of Congress shall provide for the same withholding and remittance with respect to a payment deposited in an escrow account under paragraph (1) that would apply to the payment if the payment were not subject to paragraph (1).
(3)
Release of amounts at end of the Congress
In order to ensure that this subsection is carried out in a manner that shall not vary the compensation of Senators or Representatives in violation of the twenty-seventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the payroll administrator of a House of Congress shall release for payment to Members of that House of Congress any amounts remaining in any escrow account under this section on the last day of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress.
(b)
Role of Secretary of the Treasury
The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide the payroll administrator of each House of Congress with such assistance as may be necessary to enable the payroll administrator to carry out this subtitle.
(c)
Exception for days occurring after general election
This section does not apply with respect to any pay period during the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress which occurs after the date of the regularly scheduled general election for Federal office held in November 2022.
(d)
Payroll administrator defined
In this section, the term
payroll administrator
, with respect to a House of Congress, means—
(1)
in the case of the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or an employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer who is designated by the Chief Administrative Officer to carry out this Act; and
(2)
in the case of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate, or an employee of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate who is designated by the Secretary to carry out this Act.
4.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
mass shooting
means 4 or more killings in a single incident by the use of a firearm (as defined in section 921 of title 18, United States Code); and
(2)
the term
Member of Congress
means an individual serving in a position under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 4501
).
