1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
WIC Healthy Beginnings Act of 2022
.
2.
Database of bid solicitations for infant formula under the WIC program
Section 17(h)(8)(A) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)(A)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(xi)
Database of bid solicitations
(I)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this clause, the Secretary shall make available to the public the information described in items (aa) through (dd) of subclause (II) relating to bid solicitations of State agencies for infant formula under the program.
(II)
State agencies
In soliciting bids for infant formula under the program, a State agency, or a State agency on behalf of a State alliance, shall submit to the Secretary, not later than 5 business days after the date when the bid solicitation is made available online to bidders by the State, a description of the bid solicitation, including—
(aa)
the title of the bid solicitation and the State agency administering the bid solicitation if not available via the website hyperlink;
(bb)
the website hyperlink and other information needed for the purpose of submitting a bid in response to the bid solicitation if not available via the website hyperlink;
(cc)
the contact information and website hyperlink for the State agency administering the bid solicitation, for the purpose of gathering additional information relating to the bid solicitation; and
(dd)
the period during which bids are accepted or the due date for bids, as applicable, under the bid solicitation.
(III)
Publication
Not later than 10 days after receiving a description of a bid solicitation under subclause (II), the Secretary shall publish the information on the database established under subclause (I).
(IV)
Guidance
The Secretary shall issue guidance to implement this clause.
(V)
Liability limitation
A State, State agency, or the Federal Government shall not be liable in a civil suit or claim in a State or Federal court based on the performance or failure to perform a duty, function, or activity required by this clause.
.
