1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Native Plant Species Pilot Program Act of 2022
.
2.
Pilot program for native plant species
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Invasive species
The term
invasive species
means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, a nonnative organism, the introduction of which causes or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human, animal, or plant health.
(2)
Locally adapted
The term
locally adapted
means, with respect to plants, plants that—
(A)
originate from an area that is geographically proximate to a planting area; and
(B)
are environmentally adapted to and likely to become established and persist in that planting area.
(3)
Native plant species
The term
native plant species
means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, a species that, other than as a result of an introduction, historically occurred or currently occurs in that ecosystem.
(4)
Nonnative
The term
nonnative
means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, an organism, including the seeds, eggs, spores, or other biological material of the organism capable of propagating that species, that occurs outside of the natural range of the organism.
(5)
Plant material
The term
plant material
means a plant or the seeds, eggs, spores, or other biological material of a plant capable of propagating the species of the plant.
(b)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date on which funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall, in accordance with any existing laws and management policies, carry out a pilot program to prioritize the use of native plant species within geographically diverse units of the National Park System and public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
(c)
Implementation
In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (b), the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable—
(1)
give preference to the use of locally adapted native plant materials where appropriate;
(2)
incorporate efforts to prevent, control, or eradicate the spread of invasive species;
(3)
incorporate efforts to use native plants in areas that have experienced a recent wildfire event; and
(4)
identify situations in which the use of non-native plants may be warranted.
(d)
Coordination
The Secretary shall, in carrying out the pilot program under subsection (b), coordinate activities with—
(1)
the National Seed Strategy of the Bureau of Land Management;
(2)
the Plant Conservation Alliance; and
(3)
the Plant Materials Centers of the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(e)
Termination of authority
The authority to carry out the pilot program under subsection (b) terminates on the date that is 5 years after the date on which the pilot program is established under that subsection.
(f)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the authority to carry out the pilot program terminates under subsection (e), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing—
(1)
the results of the pilot program carried out under subsection (b); and
(2)
the cost-effectiveness of using native plants in units of the National Park System and public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
