1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Resources for Emergency and Security Infrastructure Logistics In Every Neighborhood to Curb Extremism Act of 2022
or the
RESILIENCE Act of 2022
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Agency
The term
Agency
means the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department.
(2)
Department
The term
Department
means the Department of Homeland Security.
(3)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Agency.
(4)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means—
(A)
an organization of the type described in subsection (c)(3) of
section 501
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under subsection (a) of such section; and
(B)
determined to be at risk of a terrorist attack by the Secretary.
3.
Force multiplier pilot program
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish a 1-year pilot program for appropriate State, local, Tribal, and territorial government officials to be trained by appropriate Agency officials regarding carrying out security vulnerability or terrorism risk assessments of critical infrastructure facilities.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the completion of the pilot program under subsection (a), the Director shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
4.
Authority to establish critical infrastructure clearinghouses
(a)
In general
Subsection (c) of section 2202 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 652
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (14) as paragraphs (7) through (15), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
(6)
maintain 1 or more clearinghouses for owners and operators of critical infrastructure and other relevant stakeholders, which may include nonprofit organizations, to access security guidance, best practices, and other voluntary content developed by the Agency, or aggregated from trusted sources, in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (
29 U.S.C. 794d
) and the Plain Writing Act of 2010 (
5 U.S.C. 301
note;
Public Law 111–274
);
.
(b)
Annual report to Congress
The Director shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, on an annual basis, a report detailing outreach the Agency has conducted to critical infrastructure owners and operators regarding security guidance, best practices, and other voluntary content. Each report shall include the following:
(1)
A summary regarding how the Agency determines methods and frequency of outreach.
(2)
The various methods of outreach carried out by the Agency, including briefings, emails, and conferences.
(3)
For each such method of outreach, a summary of such outreach that has been carried out—
(A)
to each of the 16 critical infrastructure sectors;
(B)
in rural, suburban, and urban areas;
(C)
by each regional office of the Agency; and
(D)
through protective security advisors and governmental coordinating councils.
(4)
Detailed plans to expand outreach to critical infrastructure owners and operators.
5.
Exemption
Chapter 35
of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as the
Paperwork Reduction Act
), shall not apply to any rulemaking or information collection required under this Act or paragraph (6) of section 2202(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by section 4 of this Act.
6.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act may be construed to create, satisfy, or waive any requirement under Federal civil rights laws, including—
(1)
title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.
); or
(2)
title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.
).
