1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cuban Family Reunification Parole Act of 2022
.
2.
Reinstatement of Cuban family reunification parole program
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall—
(1)
begin to reinstate the processing of applications for parole under the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program at the United States Embassy in Havana, Cuba; and
(2)
prioritize applications described in paragraph (1) in the order in which they were received by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Additional personnel
(1)
Assignment
To carry out subsection (a)—
(A)
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall assign to the United States Embassy in Havana, Cuba, appropriate personnel from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services; and
(B)
the Secretary of State, with the permission of the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall assign to the United States Embassy in Havana, Cuba, appropriate personnel from the Department of State.
(2)
Safety of personnel
The Secretary of Homeland Security and Secretary of State shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure the safety of such personnel and to ensure that such personnel are available a minimum of one business day each week for the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program.
(c)
Accessibility
To carry out subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may to the extent practicable make available to applicants for parole under the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program video teleconference capabilities and may fly personnel assigned under subsection (b) to the United State Embassy in Havana, Cuba, for time sufficient to process applications in a safe manner. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretaries shall ensure that appropriate privacy and security requirements are satisfied for all personnel involved.
(d)
Duration
Parole granted under the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program shall be valid for an initial period of at least two years.
(e)
Expeditious processing
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall ensure that applications for parole under the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program that were filed before the date of the enactment of this Act have started being adjudicated not more than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
