1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cybersecurity Clinics Grant Program Act
.
2.
Cybersecurity Clinics Grant Program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall establish a program to be known as the
Cybersecurity Clinics Grant Program
(in this section referred to as the
Program
). Under the Program, the Secretary shall make grants to fund university-based cybersecurity clinics at junior or community colleges, historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), and other minority-serving institutions to allow such colleges, universities, and institutions to—
(1)
develop interactive, personalized workshops to provide education on the importance of protecting devices, data, and identity from physical and digital compromise;
(2)
develop experiential cybersecurity curriculum to provide education relating to how to increase cybersecurity resilience in organizations and defend against digital threats;
(3)
offer high-potential paths to increase the number of experienced cybersecurity professionals by creating a talent pipeline of students with practical experience, and appropriate certifications, interested in joining the cybersecurity workforce; and
(4)
help civil society organizations, State and local government agencies, critical infrastructure providers, small and medium-sized businesses, and other under-represented and under-resourced public interest organizations develop their cybersecurity workforces.
(b)
Cybersecurity curriculum
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall develop the experiential cybersecurity curriculum referred to in subsection (a)(2) to carry out the Program.
(c)
Annual reports
The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall annually submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report containing information on the expenditure by each grant recipient of grant funds made under the Program.
(d)
Guidance
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall issue guidance regarding the development of experiential cybersecurity curriculums described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a).
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the Program.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Hispanic-serving institution
The term
Hispanic-serving institution
has the meaning given such term in section 502 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1101a
).
(2)
Historically Black colleges and universities
The term
historically Black colleges and universities
has the meaning given the term
part B institution
in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1061
).
(3)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
).
(4)
Junior or community college
The term
junior or community college
has the meaning given such term in section 312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1058(f)
).
(5)
Minority-serving institution
The term
minority-serving institution
means an institution of higher education described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)
).
