1.
Report on Puerto Rico’s electric grid
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Energy and the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on Puerto Rico’s progress toward rebuilding the electric grid and that details the efforts the Federal Government is undertaking to expedite such rebuilding. The report shall contain the following:
(1)
An analysis of the state of Puerto Rico’s electric grid, including the following:
(A)
A list of projects in order of priority, estimated cost, and estimated time necessary for completion.
(B)
An analysis of the measures taken by the Federal Government to expedite such rebuilding and the effectiveness of such measures.
(C)
Information relating to the amount of funds that have been allocated and the amount of funds that have been disbursed.
(D)
An analysis of how the Federal Government can provide further assistance in expediting such rebuilding.
(2)
An analysis of the state of Puerto Rico’s renewable energy generation and storage capacities, including the following:
(A)
A list of current and expected projects focused on renewable energy generation and storage.
(B)
A report on the development of renewable energy sources in Puerto Rico, including projections for meeting renewable energy metrics established in the Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act (Act 17).
(C)
An analysis of challenges for improving Puerto Rico’s renewable energy capacity and recommendations for addressing such challenges.
(D)
An analysis of how the Federal Government can provide further assistance, including funding and legislative actions, in facilitating renewable energy development and improving Puerto Rico’s renewable energy generation and storage capacities.
(E)
An analysis of the extent to which FEMA funding to rebuild the electric grid will be used to support the construction of, or to extend the operating life of, fossil fuel generation, and the extent to which those assets will become stranded assets as the cost of renewable energy continues to decrease.
(3)
Recommendations, as appropriate, for power companies and governments to reduce the number of outages and blackouts.
(4)
Proposals, as appropriate, for legislative actions and funding needed to improve the process of fund disbursement for critical projects related to electric grids.
(5)
A plan for expediting such rebuilding by not later than three months after the report is so submitted.
(b)
Definition
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Natural Resources, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
