1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bulk Infant Formula to Retail Shelves Act
.
2.
Temporary duty suspensions for infant formula base powder
(a)
In general
Subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (in the section referred to as the
HTS
) is amended by inserting the following new subheading in numerical sequence:
Infant formula base powder to be used in manufacturing infant formula in the United States, exported on or before November 14, 2022, by a party that has been determined by the Food and Drug Administration to be authorized to lawfully market infant formula in the United States or has received a letter of enforcement discretion from the Food and Drug Administration relating to the marketing of its infant formula in the United States:
9903.19.23
Provided for in subheading 1901.90.62
Free
No change
No change
.
(b)
Definition and applicability
The U.S. Notes to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTS are amended by adding at the end following:
21.
(a)
For purposes of subheading 9903.19.23, the term
infant formula base powder
means a dry mixture of protein, fat, and carbohydrates that requires only the addition of vitamins and minerals in order to meet the definition of the term
infant formula
in section 201(z) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321(z)
).
(b)
The necessary proof that an import is a qualifying infant formula base powder under subheading 9903.19.23 shall be established by a written notice from the Food and Drug Administration that the base powder shipment qualifies for importation under such subheading.
(c)
The duty-free treatment of infant formula base powder set forth in subheading 9903.19.23 shall apply only with respect to the importation of an aggregate quantity not exceeding 2,600 metric tons of such infant formula base powder.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply with respect to goods entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, during the period beginning on the third day after the date of enactment of this Act and ending at the close of December 31, 2022.
(d)
Waiver of Other Duties or Safeguards
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the period described in subsection (c), articles of infant formula base powder that are classifiable under subheading 9903.19.23 of the HTS, as added by the amendment made by subsection (a), shall not be subject to any additional safeguard duties that may be imposed under subchapter IV of chapter 99 of the HTS.
