1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
U.S.-Israel Anti-Killer Drone Act of 2022
.
2.
Improvements relating to United States-Israel cooperation to counter unmanned aerial systems
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The growing arsenal of unmanned aerial systems of Iran includes—
(A)
unmanned aerial systems that engage in intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance;
(B)
unmanned combat aerial systems capable of striking battlefield targets; and
(C)
loitering munitions, also known as
suicide drones
or
kamikaze drones
.
(2)
Iran-origin unmanned aerial systems represent a threat to the Armed Forces and facilities of the United States in the Middle East, as well as to United States allies and partners such as Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
(3)
In February 2018, Iran allegedly launched an armed unmanned aerial system from Syria into Israeli airspace which was ultimately destroyed by Israeli warplanes.
(4)
In September 2019, Iran launched cruise missiles and loitering munitions at key oil installations in Saudi Arabia.
(5)
Throughout the takeover of Yemen by the Houthi, beginning in 2014 and continuing into the present, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds-Force has provided the Yemeni rebels with unmanned aerial systems, enabling the Houthis to routinely strike civilian targets in both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
(6)
In March 2021, Iran attempted to send two triangular-shaped unmanned aerial systems towards Israel which were ultimately downed by Israeli warplanes over the territory of an undisclosed Arab country.
(7)
On March 27 and 28, 2022, Secretary of State Blinken met in Israel with counterparts from the governments of Israel, Bahrain, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, and Morocco to promote normalization in the region and declared,
Our commitment to the core principle that Iran can never acquire a nuclear weapon is unwavering. One way or another, we will continue to cooperate closely.
.
(8)
On June 2, 2022, Iran-backed Hezbollah sent three unmanned aerial systems towards the Israeli-controlled Karish gas field, one of which was intercepted by an F–16 fighter jet, and two of which were intercepted by Barak 8 missiles launched from the Sa’ar 5-class corvette
INS Eilat
.
(9)
On 14 July 2022, the United States and Israel adopted the Joint Declaration on the U.S.-Israel Strategic Partnership, reaffirming the unbreakable bonds between the two countries and the enduring commitment of the United States to the security of Israel.
(10)
On July 14, 2022, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 7900, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, sections 1333 and 1334 of which included language to—
(A)
extend the authority to carry out activities and provide support relating to United States-Israel cooperation to counter unmanned aerial systems under section 1278 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
; 133 Stat. 1702;
22 U.S.C. 8606
note);
(B)
include directed energy capabilities as a type of capability for countering unmanned aerial systems under such section; and
(C)
increase the annual limitation on the amount of support provided under subsection (b) of such section from $25,000,000, to $40,000,000.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should—
(1)
enhance ongoing cooperation with Israel in developing mutually beneficial counter unmanned aerial systems technologies and capabilities;
(2)
share with Israel information about the evolving threat of Iran-origin unmanned aerial systems; and
(3)
use the United States Israel Operations-Technology Working Group authorized under section 1299M(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
Public Law 116–283
; 134 Stat. 4014) as the epicenter of such efforts.
(c)
United States-Israel cooperation To counter unmanned aerial systems
Section 1278(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
; 133 Stat. 1702;
22 U.S.C. 8606
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
The status of cooperation between the United States and Israel on countering unmanned aerial systems, to include an assessment of—
(i)
the development of equipment and procedures to counter unmanned aerial systems;
(ii)
the capability of Israel to detect, counter, and deter unmanned aerial systems;
(iii)
the cooperation between the United States and Israel to detect, counter, and deter unmanned aerial systems;
(iv)
in particular, such cooperation with respect to the detection, countering, and deterrence of loitering munitions; and
(v)
the extent to which the United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group is being used to carry out the activities described in paragraph (1).
(D)
An assessment of the threat to the United States and Israel posed by unmanned aerial systems from Iran and associated proxies of Iran, including an assessment of currently deployed or otherwise available anti-drone capabilities of the United States and Israel and the adequacy of such capabilities to offset such threat.
.
