1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Miranda Rights Restoration Act of 2022
.
2.
Protection of procedural safeguards to secure privilege against self-incrimination
(a)
In general
Any person who is subject to custodial interrogation shall be afforded the procedural safeguards described under subsection (b) in order to secure the privilege against self-incrimination pursuant to the fifth and fourteenth amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
(b)
Procedural safeguards described
The procedural safeguards afforded to a person subject to custodial interrogation shall include:
(1)
The right to a clear and unequivocal warning by a law enforcement officer that the person has the right to remain silent, which if waived, may result in a statement being used as evidence against the person in a criminal prosecution.
(2)
The right to retain and consult with an attorney and have the attorney present during a custodial interrogation.
(3)
The right to have an attorney appointed if the person is indigent.
(4)
The right to be informed of the rights described in paragraphs (1) through (3) before any custodial interrogation begins.
(c)
Waiver of procedural safeguards
A person may waive the rights described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) only if such waiver is knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily made.
(d)
Private right of action
A violation of subsection (a) constitutes a deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws for purposes of section 1979 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (
42 U.S.C. 1983
), and a person injured thereby may bring an action under such section.
(e)
Right of action against acting under Federal authority
Section 1979 of the Revised Statutes (
42 U.S.C. 1983
) is amended by inserting
of the United States or
before
of any State
.
(f)
Custodial interrogation defined
In this section, the term
custodial interrogation
means questioning or other conduct by a law enforcement officer which is reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from an individual and occurs when reasonable individuals in the same circumstances would consider themselves in custody.
