1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
COVID–19 Supply Chain Relief Act
.
2.
Supply Chain Czar
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Executive Office of the President an Office of Supply Chain Policy, which shall do the following:
(1)
Coordinate a national response to supply chain disruptions, shortages, and increased prices.
(2)
Serve as a resource for States as States deploy unused COVID–19 relief funds to address supply chain bottlenecks in their States.
(3)
Appoint, oversee, and coordinate among regional supply chain leaders.
(b)
Appointment
There shall be at the head of the Office a Supply Chain Czar, appointed by the President, who shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
3.
State use of COVID–19 relief funds for supply chain disruptions
(a)
In general
The unobligated balances of amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under title VI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 801 et seq.
) to any State, territory, or Tribal government by the amendments made by subtitle M of title IX of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 may also be made available to such State, territory, or Tribal government to help address supply chain disruptions and labor shortages by undertaking one or more of the following:
(1)
Promoting employment in the trucking and logistics industries.
(2)
Implementing apprenticeship programs to recruit more women and military veterans to become licensed commercial motor vehicle drivers.
(3)
Undertaking port and shipping infrastructure projects.
(4)
Providing relief from other detrimental economic impacts of supply chain disruptions.
(b)
Authority To issue guidance
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall issue such guidance as may be necessary to implement this section including, as needed, to define the scope of the allowable activities listed in subsection (a).
4.
Departments of Commerce and Transportation report
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall publish and submit to Congress a report on the following, related to supply chains in the United States:
(1)
Points of congestion or blockages.
(2)
Underlying causes of supply chain disruptions, shortages, and delays.
(3)
Other supply chain shortcomings which, with public or private investment, could be remedied to result in more efficient movement of goods into and within the United States.
