1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Resiliency Planning Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 306 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(4)
Real property
The term
real property
has the meaning given the term in section 1.856–10 of title 26, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.
3.
Guidance
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish guidance requiring the head of each agency to incorporate natural disaster resilience into real property asset management and investment decisions made by the agency.
(b)
Contents
The guidance required under subsection (a) shall direct each head of an agency to incorporate assessments of natural disaster risk information conducted by the agency, such as from vulnerability and other risk assessments, into real property asset management investment decisions made by the agency.
(c)
Modification
The Director may periodically update the guidance required under subsection (a) as the Director may determine necessary for the purpose of further enhancing natural disaster resilience.
(d)
Consultation
In developing the guidance required under subsection (a), the Director may consult with appropriate entities, including—
(1)
the Comptroller General of the United States;
(2)
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
(3)
any other relevant entities, as determined by the Director.
(e)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that describes the guidance required under subsection (a).
(2)
Briefing
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on the implementation of the guidance required under subsection (a) across agencies.
