1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combating Harmful Actions with Transparency on Social Act of 2022
or the
CHATS Act of 2022
.
2.
Collection of data on internet platforms used in connection with criminal offenses
(a)
In general
Under the authority of section 534 of title 28, United States Code, the Attorney General shall modify the uniform crime reporting program in the Federal Bureau of Investigation to include, for any offense for which data is collected under the program, data on any internet platform used in connection with such offense.
(b)
Guidelines
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish guidelines for the collection of the data described in subsection (a), including criteria for use by law enforcement agencies in determining whether an internet platform was used in connection with an offense.
(c)
No right of action
Nothing in this section may be construed to—
(1)
create a private right of action; or
(2)
limit any existing right of action, including any action under
chapter 7
of title 5, United States Code.
(d)
No personally identifiable information
Data collected under this section may be used only for research or statistical purposes and may not contain any personally identifiable information.
(e)
Publication
The Attorney General shall publish an annual summary of the data collected under this section, including—
(1)
the specific internet platforms used in connection with offenses for which data is collected under the uniform crime reporting program; and
(2)
offenses committed by, and offenses committed against, juveniles, with respect to which an internet platform was used in connection with such offense.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
used in connection with
includes, with respect to an offense, planning, conspiring, facilitating, and perpetrating the offense.
(2)
The term
internet platform
means a commercial electronic service provided by means of the internet, including through a software application that connects to the internet.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
