1.
Land taken into trust for the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Reservation
The term
Reservation
means the Lower Elwha Indian Reservation, also known as the Lower Elwha Reservation, located in the State of Washington.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
Tribe
The term
Tribe
means the Lower Elwha Tribal Community, also known as the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe, in the State of Washington.
(b)
Land held in trust
(1)
In general
Subject to all valid existing rights of the United States, the approximately 1,082.63 acres generally depicted as
NPS Parcels to be Transferred to Tribe
on the map entitled
Olympic National Park Proposed Transfer of Elwha Lands
, numbered 149/178020, and dated December 2021, are hereby declared to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe.
(2)
Inclusion in reservation
The land taken into trust under paragraph (1) is hereby declared to be part of the Reservation.
(3)
Law applicable to certain land
The land taken into trust under paragraph (1) shall not be subject to any requirements for valuation, appraisal, or equalization under any Federal law.
(c)
Land management
Of the lands taken into and held in trust under subsection (b), that portion of the Elwha River subject to section 3(c)(3) of the Elwha River Ecosystem and Fisheries Restoration Act (
Public Law 102–495
) shall be managed in accordance with section 1(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (
16 U.S.C. 1271
), except for necessary modifications under section 3(c)(3) of the Elwha River Ecosystem and Fisheries Restoration Act.
(d)
Map and survey
(1)
Boundary adjustment; survey
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a survey to define the boundaries of the land taken into and held in trust under subsection (b).
(2)
Adjustments
The Secretary may make minor boundary adjustments to the lands taken into and held in trust under subsection (b) and may correct any minor errors in any map, acreage estimate, or description of the lands taken into and held in trust under subsection (b).
(e)
Gaming prohibition
No land taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe under this Act shall be considered Indian lands for the purpose of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (
25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.
).
