1.
Government Accountability Office study on disaster spending
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to identify the following:
(1)
For the 5-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act—
(A)
the total amount of Federal funds spent in response to major disasters and emergencies declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
); and
(B)
the total amount of State and Indian tribal government funds spent in response to such major disasters and emergencies.
(2)
10 proposed Federal actions, to include reinsurance, that, if implemented, would most effectively reduce the need for spending related to such major disasters or emergencies. Such actions shall be listed in order of priority under criteria established by the Comptroller General, including the following:
(A)
Cost effectiveness.
(B)
Return on investment.
(C)
Simplicity or speed of implementation using existing resources.
(3)
The effect that using blockchain may have on delivering disaster assistance to State and Indian tribal governments.
(4)
Whether insurance protection against wildfires will remain available and affordable to homeowners.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the covered entities a report containing the results of the study.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered entities
means—
(A)
Congress;
(B)
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
(C)
for each State and Indian tribal government, the head of the agency for such State or Indian tribal government with jurisdiction over disaster response activities.
(2)
The terms
Indian tribal government
and
State
have the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122
).
2.
State disaster plan updates
Section 201 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5131
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
With respect to State plans developed under this section, the President shall coordinate with each State to update such plans to incorporate strategies that decrease the time required to prepare for disasters, including the time to evacuate individuals.
.
3.
Grants to entities for establishment of hazard mitigation revolving loan funds
Section 205(f) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5135(f)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(9)
Set aside for certain projects
A participating entity shall ensure that at least 10 percent of the total dollar amount of the loans made by such entity under this subsection each fiscal year assist projects or activities that reduce risks, for residential structures, related to the natural hazards described in paragraph (3).
.
