1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States Inter-Parliamentary Union Participation Act
.
2.
United States participation in the Inter-Parliamentary Union
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), founded in 1889, is the world organization of national parliaments comprising 179 parliaments (including all the major allies of the United States) and working closely with the regional parliamentary organizations on all continents.
(2)
The core mission of the IPU is the promotion of parliamentary democracy, the elaboration of standards and criteria for democratic parliamentary practice, the protection of human rights, international peace and security, the political empowerment of women, sustainable international development, and greater transparency and accountability at the global level, which are in line with United States interests and priorities.
(3)
Congress was a founding member of the IPU, and played an active and prominent role for many decades.
(4)
The main concerns of Congress, including the scheduling of main assembly and arrears, have been fully addressed by the IPU.
(5)
Through the activities of the IPU, the United States can usefully promote its core values of freedom, democracy, and human rights, and help build stronger parliaments around the world.
(b)
United States participation in the Inter-Parliamentary Union
Notwithstanding section 2503 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of
Public Law 105–277
;
22 U.S.C. 276
note)—
(1)
the Secretary of State is authorized to—
(A)
facilitate the readmission and participation of the United States in the Inter-Parliamentary Union; and
(B)
pay expenses to meet the annual obligations of membership in the Inter-Parliamentary Union, in accordance with the assessments determined by the Governing Council; and
(2)
the majority leader of the Senate, in consultation with the minority leader of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives, are authorized to designate Members of Congress to serve as delegates to the Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
(c)
Expenses of delegation
Of amounts made available pursuant to
Public Law 100–202
, as amended by subsection (d), up to $150,000 is authorized to be appropriated in fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter to assist in meeting the expenses of the United States delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union in accordance with this Act.
(d)
Permanent appropriation
Section 303 of
Public Law 100–202
is amended—
(1)
by striking
$620,000
and inserting
$1,500,000
; and
(2)
by inserting
section 2(b) of the United States Inter-Parliamentary Union Participation Act,
after
section 2(2) of
Public Law 84–689
,
.
