114 HCON 5 IH: Sergeant Clinton K. Ruiz Memorial Resolution
U.S. House of Representatives
2015-01-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
114th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 5
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 8, 2015
Mr. Calvert
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress regarding outreach to families of members of the Armed Forces who
have died in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in other conflicts.
Whereas the human burden of the Global War on Terrorism has been disproportionately borne by the
less than one percent of Americans who serve in the military;
Whereas 2,356 members of the Armed Forces have died in Operation Enduring Freedom and 4,494 members
of the Armed Forces have died in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New
Dawn, and Operation Inherent Resolve as of January 7, 2015;
Whereas the strength of our military is built upon the men and women who serve in uniform and the
families who support them; and
Whereas supporting those families who have lost loved ones in the Global War on Terrorism
demonstrates the commitment of the American people to those families now
and in the future: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Sergeant Clinton K. Ruiz Memorial Resolution
.
2.
Sense of Congress regarding families that have lost loved ones in combat
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
all families that have lost loved ones in uniform should be recognized for their sacrifices and for
their dedicated and patriotic support of the United States;
(2)
local communities should recognize and support those families that have lost a loved one in combat;
and
(3)
the President should encourage military bases around the country to organize and host events to
recognize and commemorate the sacrifices of members of the Armed Forces of
all services, and to encourage the attendance of families within the local
area that have lost loved ones in combat to attend such commemorations.
