114 HCON 43 IH: Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds, the rotunda of the Capitol, and Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for official Congressional events surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol.
U.S. House of Representatives
2015-04-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
114th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 43
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 28, 2015
Mr. Barletta
(for himself,
Mrs. Miller of Michigan
, and
Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
, and in addition to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds, the rotunda of the Capitol, and Emancipation Hall in
the Capitol Visitor Center for official Congressional events surrounding
the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol.
1.
Authorization of use of Capitol Grounds for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis
to United States Capitol
(a)
Authorization of use of Capitol Grounds
The Capitol Grounds may be used for official Congressional events surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on Thursday, September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate.
(b)
Responsibilities of Capitol Police Board
The Capitol Police Board shall take such actions as may be necessary to enforce the restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds in connection with the events authorized by this section.
(c)
Event preparations
The Architect of the Capitol is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment as may be required for the events authorized by this section.
2.
Authorization of use of rotunda for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to United
States Capitol
The rotunda of the United States Capitol is authorized to be used for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of such ceremonies and activities shall be carried out in accordance with such conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.
3.
Authorization of use of Emancipation Hall for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis
to United States Capitol
Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center is authorized to be used for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of such ceremonies and activities shall be carried out in accordance with such conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.
4.
Arrangements with other departments and agencies
In carrying out their duties under this concurrent resolution, the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are each authorized to utilize appropriate equipment and services of appropriate personnel of departments and agencies of the Federal Government, under such arrangements as each may enter into with the heads of those departments and agencies in connection with the ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol.
