1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Foster Youth Independence Act of 2017
.
2.
Authority for certain States to serve former foster youths up to age 23 under the John H. Chafee
Foster Care Independence Program
(a)
In general
Section 477(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(b)(3)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)—
(A)
by inserting
(i)
before
A certification
;
(B)
by striking
children who have left foster care
and all that follows through the period and inserting
youths who have aged out of foster care and have not attained age 21.
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(ii)
If the State has elected under section 475(8)(B) to extend eligibility for foster care up to age 21, or if the Secretary determines that the State agency responsible for administering the State plans under this part and part B uses State funds or any other funds not provided under this part to provide services and assistance for youths who have aged out of foster care that are comparable to the services and assistance such youths would receive if the State had made such an election, the certification required under clause (i) may provide that the State will provide assistance and services to youths who have aged out of foster care and have not attained age 23.
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
children who have left foster care
and all that follows through the period and inserting
youths who have aged out of foster care and have not attained age 21 (age 23, in the case of a State with a certification under clause (i) of subparagraph (A) to provide assistance and services to youths who have aged out of foster care up to such age, in accordance with clause (ii) of subparagraph (A)).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 477(a)(5) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 677(a)(5)
) is amended by inserting
(23 years of age in the case of a State with a certification under clause (i) of subsection (b)(3)(A) to provide assistance and services to youths who have aged out of foster care up to such age, in accordance with clause (ii) of such subsection)
after
21 years of age
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section take effect on October 1, 2017.
