1.
Exemption from compensatory mitigation requirements
(a)
In general
Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1344
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(u)
Indian tribes
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Indian land
The term
Indian land
means land owned by, operated by, or otherwise belonging to an Indian tribe.
(B)
Indian tribe
The term
Indian tribe
has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act
(
25 U.S.C. 5304
).
(C)
Permitted activity
The term
permitted activity
means a discharge of dredged or fill material for which a permit is issued under this section.
(2)
Exemption from compensatory mitigation requirements
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an Indian tribe that applies for a permit for a permitted activity to be conducted on Indian land shall not be required to provide any form of compensatory mitigation as a condition of the permit.
(3)
Evaluation of Indian tribe permit application
In evaluating a permit application submitted by an Indian tribe to carry out a permitted activity on Indian land, the Secretary may not take into account the nonavailability of compensatory mitigation under the exemption provided by paragraph (2).
(4)
Situations in which an Indian tribe ceases to maintain permitted activity
If an Indian tribe described in paragraph (2) ceases to maintain the permitted activity on Indian land or seeks to abandon the permitted activity without a good faith transfer, the Indian tribe shall obtain a permit modification from the Secretary, which may require restoration and rehabilitation of the area.
(5)
Effect
The exemption described in paragraph (2) shall not affect the applicability of any other requirement under this Act to an Indian tribe or Indian land, including any requirement to avoid and minimize adverse impacts to wetlands, streams, and other aquatic resources.
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to permits issued under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1344
) after the date of enactment of this Act.
