1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Telehealth for Children’s Access to Services and Treatment Act
or the
TeleCAST Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Comptroller General
The term
Comptroller General
means the Comptroller General of the United States.
(2)
School-based health center
The term
school-based health center
has the meaning given that term in section 2110(c)(9) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1397jj(c)(9)
).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(4)
Telehealth services
The term
telehealth services
includes remote patient monitoring and other key modalities such as live video or synchronous telehealth, store-and-forward or asynchronous telehealth, mobile health, telephonic consultation, and electronic consult including provider-to-provider e-consults.
(5)
Underserved area
The term
underserved area
means a health professional shortage area (as defined in section 332(a)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 254e(a)(1)(A)
)) and a medically underserved area (according to a designation under section 330(b)(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3)(A)
)).
3.
GAO evaluation of children's access to services and treatment for substance use
disorders under Medicaid
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General shall evaluate children's access to services and treatment for substance use disorders under Medicaid. The evaluation shall include an analysis of State options for improving children's access to such services and treatment and for improving outcomes, including by increasing the number of Medicaid providers who offer services or treatment for substance use disorders in a school-based health center using telehealth services, particularly in rural and underserved areas. The evaluation shall include an analysis of Medicaid provider reimbursement rates for services and treatment for substance use disorders.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the evaluation conducted under subsection (a), together with recommendations for such legislation and administrative action as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
4.
Report on reducing barriers to using telehealth services and remote patient monitoring for
pediatric populations under Medicaid
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, shall issue a report to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representative identifying best practices and potential solutions for reducing barriers to using telehealth services to furnish services and treatment for substance use disorders among pediatric populations under Medicaid. The report shall include—
(1)
analyses of the best practices, barriers, and potential solutions for using telehealth services to diagnose and provide services and treatment for children with substance use disorders, including opioid use disorder; and
(2)
identification and analysis of the differences, if any, in furnishing services and treatment for children with substance use disorders using telehealth services and using services delivered in person, such as, and to the extent feasible, with respect to—
(A)
utilization rates;
(B)
costs;
(C)
avoidable inpatient admissions and readmissions;
(D)
quality of care; and
(E)
patient, family, and provider satisfaction.
(b)
Publication
The Secretary shall publish the report required under subsection (a) on a public Internet website of the Department of Health and Human Services.
