1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Temporary and Term Appointments Act of 2017
.
2.
Noncompetitive temporary and term appointments in the competitive service
(a)
Temporary and term appointments
Subchapter I of
chapter 31
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
3115.
Temporary and term appointments
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
(2)
Temporary appointment
The term
temporary appointment
means an appointment in the competitive service for a period of not more than 1 year.
(3)
Term appointment
The term
term appointment
means an appointment in the competitive service for a period of more than 1 year and not more than 5 years.
(b)
Appointment
(1)
In general
The head of an agency may make a temporary appointment or term appointment to a position in the competitive service when the need for the services of the employee is not permanent.
(2)
Extension
Under conditions prescribed by the Director, the head of an agency may—
(A)
extend a temporary appointment made under paragraph (1) to be for a period of not more than 2 years; and
(B)
extend a term appointment made under paragraph (1) to be for a period of not more than 5 years.
(c)
Appointments for critical hiring needs
Under conditions prescribed by the Director, the head of an agency may make a noncompetitive temporary appointment, or a noncompetitive term appointment for a period of not more than 18 months, to a position in the competitive service for which a critical hiring need exists, without regard to the requirements of sections 3327 and 3330. An appointment made under this subsection may not be extended.
(d)
Regulations
The Director may prescribe regulations to carry out this section, but is not required to promulgate regulations prior to implementation of this section.
(e)
Special provision regarding the department of defense
Nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary of Defense from making temporary and term appointments in the competitive service pursuant to section 1105 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. note prec. 1580;
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2447), and any regulations prescribed by the Director for the administration of this section shall not apply to the Secretary of Defense in the exercise of the authorities granted under such section 1105.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 31
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 3114
the following:
3115. Temporary and term appointments.
.
