1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
the town of Quindaro was founded in 1857, in the Territory of Kansas, with the specific intent of aiding the Free-State movement in the struggle over whether to admit Kansas to the Union as a free State or a slave State;
(2)
as a result of the circumstances described in paragraph (1), the town of Quindaro played an important role in the history of Kansas and the broader debate over slavery in the United States;
(3)
the town of Quindaro was a key site during the conflict, known as the
Bleeding Kansas
conflict, serving as a safe port of entry into Kansas on the Missouri River for people opposed to slavery;
(4)
the town of Quindaro also acted as an important piece of the Underground Railroad, allowing runaway slaves to escape to freedom in Kansas;
(5)
since the first excavation of the Quindaro Townsite, the area has yielded a wealth of important artifacts that have contributed to the understanding of the town and the place of the town in history;
(6)
the Quindaro Townsite maintains a high level of archaeological integrity, with the potential for additional discoveries at the townsite in the future;
(7)
local government, private entities, and individual stakeholders in the area have invested time and resources to further the preservation of the physical remains of the town and the historical and cultural legacy of the town; and
(8)
the Quindaro Townsite fits the requirements for National Historic Landmark designation of—
(A)
possessing exceptional value in illustrating the history of the United States; and
(B)
providing the potential to yield new information about the history of the United States.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Landmark
The term
Landmark
means the Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark designated by section 4(a).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
State
The term
State
means the State of Kansas.
4.
Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark
(a)
Designation
The Quindaro Townsite in Kansas City, Kansas, as listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is designated as the
Quindaro Townsite National Historic Landmark
.
(b)
Cooperative agreements
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the State, Kansas City, Kansas, and affected subdivisions of the State, may enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate public or private entities, for the purposes of—
(A)
protecting historic resources at the Landmark; and
(B)
providing educational and interpretive facilities and programs at the Landmark for the public.
(2)
Technical and financial assistance
The Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance to any entity with which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1).
(c)
No effect on actions of property owners
Designation of the Quindaro Townsite as a National Historic Landmark shall not prohibit any actions that may otherwise be taken by a property owner (including any owner of the Landmark) with respect to the property of the owner.
(d)
No effect on administration
Nothing in this section affects the administration of the Landmark by Kansas City, Kansas, or the State.
