1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing our Agriculture and Food Act
.
2.
Coordination of food, agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism
(a)
In general
Title V of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after section 527 (
6 U.S.C. 321p
) the following:
528.
Coordination of Department of Homeland Security efforts related to food, agriculture, and
veterinary defense against terrorism
(a)
Program required
The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs, shall carry out a program to coordinate the efforts of the Department relating to defending the food, agriculture, and veterinary systems of the United States against terrorism and other high-consequence events that pose a high risk to homeland security.
(b)
Program elements
The coordination program required by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Providing oversight and management of the responsibilities of the Department under Homeland Security Presidential Directive 9—Defense of United States Agriculture and Food.
(2)
Providing oversight and integration of the activities of the Department relating to veterinary public health, food defense, and agricultural security.
(3)
Leading the policy initiatives of the Department relating to food, animal, and agricultural incidents, and the impact of such incidents on animal and public health.
(4)
Leading the policy initiatives of the Department relating to overall domestic preparedness for and collective response to agricultural terrorism.
(5)
Coordinating with other components of the Department, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as appropriate, on activities relating to food and agriculture security and screening procedures for domestic and imported products.
(6)
Coordinating with appropriate Federal departments and agencies.
(7)
Other activities as determined necessary by the Secretary.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter or supersede the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to food and agriculture.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended—
(1)
by striking the items relating to sections 523, 524, 525, 526, and 527; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 522 the following:
Sec. 523. Guidance and recommendations.
Sec. 524. Voluntary private sector preparedness accreditation and certification program.
Sec. 525. Acceptance of gifts.
Sec. 526. Integrated public alert and warning system modernization.
Sec. 527. National planning and education.
Sec. 528. Coordination of Department of Homeland Security efforts related to food, agriculture, and
veterinary defense against terrorism.
.
