1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modern Employment, Reform, Improvement, and Transformation Act of 2018
or the
MERIT Act of 2018
.
2.
Alternative removal for performance or misconduct
(a)
In general
Chapter 75
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
VI
Alternative removal for performance or misconduct
7551.
Removal for performance or misconduct
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Employee
The term
employee
means any individual covered by subchapter II or V of this chapter.
(2)
Misconduct
The term
misconduct
includes neglect of duty, malfeasance, failure to accept a directed reassignment, the commitment of a prohibited personnel practice, a violation of protocol, and failure to accompany a position in a transfer of function.
(b)
Authority
The head of an agency may remove an employee from the civil service if the head of the agency determines the performance or misconduct of the individual warrants the removal.
(c)
Procedure
(1)
In general
Not later than 7 days and not earlier than 21 days before taking a personnel action described in subsection (b) against an employee, the head of the agency employing the employee shall provide the employee with—
(A)
notice in writing of the proposed personnel action, including the reasons for the proposed action and the forecasted final date of employment; and
(B)
an opportunity to respond to the proposed personnel action within the remaining employment period beginning on the date of receipt of notice.
(2)
Appeal
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), any removal under subsection (b) may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under section 7701.
(B)
Timing
An appeal under subparagraph (A) of a removal may only be made if the appeal is made not later than 7 days after the date of the removal.
(3)
Limit on removal procedures
The procedures under section 7513(b) or section 7543(b) shall not apply to a removal under this section.
(d)
Expedited review by Merit Systems Protection Board
(1)
Appeal decision timing
Upon receipt of an appeal under subsection (c)(2)(A), the Merit Systems Protection Board shall issue a decision not later than 30 days after the date of the appeal.
(2)
Evidentiary standard
Not­with­stand­ing section 7701(c)(1)(B), the Merit Systems Protection Board shall uphold the decision of the head of an agency to remove an employee under subsection (b) if the decision is supported by substantial evidence.
(3)
Final removal
In any case in which the Merit Systems Protection Board cannot issue a decision in accordance with the 30-day requirement under paragraph (1), the removal is final.
(4)
Report required
In the case of a final removal under paragraph (3), the Merit Systems Protection Board shall, within 14 days after the date that the removal is final, submit to Congress, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives a report that explains the reasons why a decision was not issued in accordance with the requirement under paragraph (1).
(5)
No stay of removal during appeal
The Merit Systems Protection Board may not stay any removal under this section unless the basis for the appeal of the removal is a violation of paragraph (8) or (9) of section 2302(b).
(6)
Requirement for removed individual during appeal
During the period beginning on the date on which an individual appeals a removal from the civil service under subsection (c)(2)(A) and ending on the date that the Merit Systems Protection Board issues a final decision on the appeal, the individual may not receive any pay, awards, bonuses, incentives, allowances, differentials, student loan repayments, special payments, or benefits.
(7)
Provision of information
To the maximum extent practicable, the head of an agency shall provide to the Merit Systems Protection Board such information and assistance as may be necessary to ensure an appeal under this subsection is expedited.
(e)
Additional authority
The authority provided by this section is in addition to the authority otherwise provided under this chapter.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 75
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
Subchapter VI—Alternative removal for performance or misconduct
7551. Removal for performance or misconduct.
.
