Whereas article I, section 8, of the United States Constitution provides,
The Congress shall have the Power to … declare war
;
Whereas President George Washington, who presided over the Constitutional Convention, lectured:
The Constitution vests the power of declaring war with Congress. Therefore no offensive
expedition of importance can be undertaken until after they have
deliberated upon the subject, and authorized such a measure.
;
Whereas James Madison, father of the Constitution, elaborated in a letter to Thomas Jefferson:
The constitution supposes, what the History of all Governments demonstrates, that the Executive is
the branch of power most interested in war, and most prone to it. It has
accordingly with studied care vested the question of war in the
Legislature.
;
Whereas James Madison wrote in his Letters of Helvidius:
In this case, the constitution has decided what shall not be deemed an executive authority;
though it may not have clearly decided in every case what shall be so
deemed. The declaring of war is expressly made a legislative function.
;
Whereas the organization referring to itself as the Islamic State has declared war on the United
States and its allies; and
Whereas the Islamic State presents a clear and present danger to United States diplomatic
facilities in the
region, including our embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, and consulate in Erbil,
Iraq: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short Title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Declaration of War against the Organization known as the Islamic State
.
2.
Declaration of a State of War between the People and Government of the United States Against the
Organization Known as the Islamic State
(a)
Declaration
The state of war between the United States and the organization referring to itself as the Islamic
State, also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and
the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), which has been thrust upon the
United States, is hereby formally declared pursuant to article I, section
8, clause 11, of the United States Constitution.
(b)
Authorization
The President is hereby authorized and directed to use the Armed Forces of the United States to
protect the people and facilities of the United States in Iraq and Syria
against the threats posed thereto by the organization referring to itself
as the Islamic State, also
known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and the Islamic
State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
(c)
Rules of Construction
(1)
Scope of authority
Nothing in this section shall be construed as declaring war or authorizing force against any
organization—
(A)
other than the organization referring to itself as the Islamic State, also known as the Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria (ISIS); or
(B)
based on affiliation with the organization referring to itself as the Islamic State, also known as
the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
(2)
No extraordinary authority
Nothing in this section shall be construed as granting the executive branch any powers beyond those
expressly provided under subsection (b).
(3)
Limitation on use of ground combat forces
Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the use of ground combat forces except—
(A)
as necessary for the protection or rescue of members of the United States Armed Forces or United
States citizens from imminent danger posed by the organization referring
to itself as the Islamic State, also known as the Islamic State of Iraq
and the Levant (ISIL) and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS);
(B)
for limited operations against high value targets; or
(C)
as necessary for advisory and intelligence gathering operations.
(d)
War power resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)
), Congress
declares that this
section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within
the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C.
1544(b)).
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541
et seq.).
3.
Repeal of prior authorization for use of United States Armed Forces against Iraq
The authorization for the Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (Public Law
107–243;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) is hereby repealed.
4.
No existing authority
The Authorization for the Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) does not
provide any authority for the use of military force against the
organization referring to itself as the Islamic State, and shall not be
construed as providing such authority.
5.
Sunset of 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force
The Authorization for the Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) shall
terminate on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of
this joint resolution.
6.
Expiration
The declaration and authorization in this joint resolution shall expire on the date that is one
year after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution.
