118 SJ 53 IS: Providing for congressional disapproval of the proposed foreign military sale to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense articles and services.
U.S. Senate
2023-12-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IIA
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. J. RES. 53
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 11, 2023
Mr. Paul
introduced the following joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
JOINT RESOLUTION
Providing for congressional disapproval of the proposed foreign military sale to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense articles and services.
That the following proposed foreign military sale to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is prohibited:
(1)
The sale of the following defense articles and services, described in Transmittal No. 23–15, submitted to Congress pursuant to section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776(b)(1)
), and published in the Congressional Record on December 7, 2023: seven Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System (GPS/INS) (EGI) security devices, Airborne, with Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) or M–Code capability, and five (5) L3Harris BlackRock Communications Intelligence Sensor Suites. Also included are KY–100M narrowband/wideband secure communications terminals; KIV–77 MODE 4/5 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) cryptographic appliques; AN/PYQ–10 Simple Key Loaders; integrated electronic intelligence (ELINT)/signals intelligence (SIGINT) systems; L–3 Communication Systems-West (CSW) multiband receivers/transmitters; ARC–210 radios; high frequency (HF) radios; secure communications equipment; precision navigation and cryptographic devices; aircraft support and support equipment; test and integration support; equipment; spare and repair parts; consumables and accessories; repair and return support; U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support services; studies and surveys; and other related elements of logistics and program support.
