118 SJ 107 IS: To authorize the use of military force against the Islamic Republic of Iran if the President determines that the Islamic Republic of Iran is planning or conducts an attack against any former, current, or incoming United States Government official or senior military personnel.
U.S. Senate
2024-08-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IIA
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. J. RES. 107
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
August 1, 2024
Mr. Graham
introduced the following joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
JOINT RESOLUTION
To authorize the use of military force against the Islamic Republic of Iran if the President determines that the Islamic Republic of Iran is planning or conducts an attack against any former, current, or incoming United States Government official or senior military personnel.
Whereas, on January 19, 1984, the United States designated the Islamic Republic of Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism for repeatedly providing support for acts of international terrorism;
Whereas Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has stated the United States is
hated in the world
and that
[a]s long as America continues its wickedness, the Iranian nation will not abandon
Death to America
;
Whereas, since the founding of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Iranian regime has planned and conducted as many as 360 targeted assassinations, and victims range from political dissidents to foreign government officials;
Whereas, under Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Islamic Republic of Iran has plotted assassinations and attacks against United States Government officials and senior military personnel, including—
(1)
former President of the United States Donald Trump;
(2)
former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo;
(3)
former Special Envoy for Iran Brian Hook;
(4)
former Secretary of Defense Mark Esper;
(5)
former National Security Advisor John Bolton;
(6)
former National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien; and
(7)
former Commander of United States Central Command General Kenneth Frank McKenzie;
Whereas, on January 9, 2022, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (commonly referred to as the
National Security Advisor
) Jake Sullivan stated,
Make no mistake: the United States of America will protect and defend its citizens. This includes those serving the United States now and those who formerly served.
;
Whereas, in February 2022, the Department of State submitted a report to Congress that stated that the cost of protecting former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and former United States Special Representative for Iran Brian Hook between August 2021 and February 2022 amounted to $13,100,000;
Whereas, on August 10, 2022, the Department of Justice charged an Iranian national and member of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps with attempting to arrange the murder of former National Security Advisor John Bolton and former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo;
Whereas, on December 19, 2023, the United States Government again renewed Secret Service protection for former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and former United States Special Representative for Iran Brian Hook due to
serious and credible
threats against them from the Islamic Republic of Iran; and
Whereas, on July 16, 2024, it was reported that former President Donald Trump’s Secret Service protection was further increased due to credible intelligence about an assassination plot by the Islamic Republic of Iran against him: Now, therefore be it
1.
Authorization for the use of military force against the Islamic Republic of Iran
The President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against the Islamic Republic of Iran if the President determines that the Islamic Republic of Iran, or its proxies, are planning or conducts an attack against any former, current, or incoming United States Government official or senior military personnel.
2.
War powers resolution requirements
(a)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)
), Congress declares that this resolution is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1544(b)
).
(b)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.
).
