Section 1

. Heads of Executive departments and agencies, or such officers or employees as they may designate, shall establish official hours of duty and a regular workweek for each employee or group of employees. No employee shall be required to work in excess of the officially established hours of duty except upon the order of the head of the department or agency or of such officer or employee as has been delegated specific authority to require such additional work.

Section 2

. Overtime compensation for employment in excess of 40 hours during an officially established  , and for work ordered or approved in addition to   so established shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's regular rate of compensation, subject to the following limitations:

(a) No overtime compensation shall be paid on any part of an employee's basic rate of compensation in excess of $2,900 per annum;

(b) Each employee shall be paid only such overtime compensation or portion thereof as will not cause his aggregate compensation, composed of his basic rate of compensation and his overtime compensation, to exceed a rate of $5,000 per annum.

For the purpose of computing overtime compensation the pay for one hour shall be considered to be ⅛ of the employee's pay for   and the pay for   shall be considered to be

1

/

360

of the employee's per-annum salary.

Section 3

. Overtime compensation of per-annum employees for employment during an officially established   in excess of 40 hours may be calculated on an   basis and paid in equal amounts on the regular   or   pay  .

Section 4

. In the case of an employee to whom the annual- and sick-leave laws approved  , 49 Stat.  , as amended, are applicable, approved absence, except on leave without pay, during any part of the officially established   shall be charged as   or sick leave as the case may be, and any absence on approved   or sick leave shall not be construed to reduce the amount of overtime compensation to which the employee is entitled for employment during the officially established  .

Section 5

. Overtime compensation for employment in excess of 40 hours per week during   between  , and the date of issuance of these regulations shall be paid on the basis of the official hours of duty which employees were required to work during such period and on the basis of any additional overtime officially ordered or approved and currently recorded.

Section 6

. Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, Federal civilian employees on vessels operated by   whose wages and allowances are computed on the basis of the special hours and conditions of their work may be compensated in accordance with the wage practices of the maritime industry.

Section 7

. Employees such as certain forest-fire lookouts, forest guards, and lighthouse keepers the nature of whose work (as determined by the head of the department or agency concerned) requires them to remain at or within the confines of their posts of duty for more than 40 hours per week but does not require that all of their time be devoted to actual work shall be considered to have intermittent or irregular hours of duty within the meaning of the last proviso of section 1 of the said   Joint Resolution 170, 77th  .

Section 8

. This order shall take effect as of  , and shall be published in  .

Section 9

. Executive  . 8837 of  , and   of  , are hereby revoked as of the effective date of this order.
