By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 5 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, and by section 81 of the said title as amended by section 3 of the act of  , 50 Stat. 486, 487, section 15 of Executive Order No.   of  , prescribing general conditions of employment for employees of The Panama Canal and   on the Isthmus of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"15.

Free transportation to   on termination of service.

Employees who are citizens of   will on termination of service be granted free transportation to   as follows:

(a)

To   on Panama Railroad Steamship Line.

Free transportation to   on the Panama Railroad Steamship Line will be granted: (1) to employees with   continuous service without regard to the manner in which the employment terminates or is terminated, (2) to employees with   service who were appointed in   and whose employment is terminated by authority of the Governor of   for any cause other than inefficiency or misconduct, and (3) to employees with continuous service of   or more but   who were appointed on the Isthmus for permanent employment and whose employment is terminated by authority of the Governor for any reason other than inefficiency or misconduct.

(b)

To any   port by another line; limitation.

Employees entitled to free transportation to   on the Panama Railroad Steamship Line, under paragraph (a) of this section, may in lieu thereof be granted free transportation to any port of   by any other line:

Provided, however

, that if the cost of such transportation exceeds $50, the employee shall pay such excess cost.

(c)

To port of embarkation.

Employees who were appointed in   and to whom free transportation was furnished from a port other than   will on termination of service be granted free transportation to the port of embarkation (1) if they were appointed prior to  , and have served continuously since such appointment, or (2) if their employment is terminated by retirement, or (3) is terminated by the Governor for any cause other than inefficiency or misconduct. Employees entitled to free transportation to port of embarkation, as provided in this paragraph, may in lieu thereof be granted free transportation to any other port of  :

Provided, however

, that such employees shall pay any excess in the cost of such transportation over the cost to the port of embarkation.

(d)

Availability of benefits hereunder.

Benefits authorized upon the basis, as stated in this section, of   continuous service, or of appointment prior to  , and continuous service thereafter, or of termination of employment by retirement, shall be available to an employee at any time after termination of his employment. Benefits authorized upon the sole basis, as stated in this section, of termination of employment by authority of the Governor for a cause other than inefficiency or misconduct, shall be available to an employee for     immediately following termination of his employment, and not thereafter.
