ENTITLEMENT TO PENSIONS

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under sections 1 and 4 of title I of the act of  , 48 Stat. 8, 9 (Public No. 2, 73d  ), and section 30 of the act of  , 48 Stat. 509, 525 (Public No. 141, 73d  ), the following regulation amending  . 1(a), as amended, is hereby prescribed:

1.  . 1(a), as amended, is hereby amended by adding thereto a new part (V) reading as follows:

"Part V

"I. Any person who served in the military or naval service of     and  , both dates inclusive, and who left the continental   under orders for military or naval service in  ,  , or  , between such dates, or the widow of any such person as long as she remains unmarried and/or dependents of any such person, to whom a pension was being paid on  , shall, from the date of this regulation, be entitled to receive a pension at 75 per centum of the rates in effect for such persons on  , subject to the reduction provided for in regulations issued pursuant to the act of  , ch. 3,   Stat. 8 (Public No. 2, 73d  ), pertaining to hospitalized cases:

Provided

, that no payments may be made to the person who served if his disability is the result of his own wilful misconduct:

Provided further

, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply (1) to any person to whom payments were being made on  , through fraud, clear or unmistakable error as to conclusions of fact or law, or misrepresentation of a material fact, except that decisions as to degree of disability rendered prior to  , shall be conclusive, or (2) to any person during     for which such person was not entitled to exemption from the payment of a Federal income tax:

Provided, however

, that a veteran in Federal employ shall not receive more than $6 per month if his salary if single exceeds $1,000 and if married $2,500 per annum:

Provided further

, that no pension shall be granted under this regulation for disability not shown to be due to service or for age if the person served   and was not discharged for disability incurred in the service in line of duty: And provided further, that persons who meet the requirements of the laws in effect  , and who were not on the rolls on  , shall, subject to the limitations of this regulation, be entitled to receive pension upon the filing of such claim as may be prescribed by  ."

2.This regulation shall be effective as of the date of its promulgation.
