By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under the act entitled "An Act to establish a  , and for other purposes", approved   (50 Stat. 319), as amended by the act of   (52 Stat. 349), and the act of   (52 Stat.  ), Executive Order No. 7677-A of  , entitled "Civilian Conservation Corps", as amended by Executive Order No. 7717 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby further amended to read as follows:

1. Reserve officers of the   and officers of the Naval and   and warrant officers of   on active duty with   will be relieved from such duty under their commissions, such relief to be effected gradually and completed on or before  . No additional reserve officers will be ordered to active duty with   nor will the detail of any such officers now on such duty be extended or renewed; except that when it may be necessary to retain a reserve officer on active duty whose current tour of active duty expires at  , such officer's tour of active duty may be extended for a period terminating not later than September 30, 1939. With the exceptions authorized in the preceding sentence, reserve officers will be relieved from active duty as their current tours of active duty are terminated, and, in any event, not  .

2. The Director of   is authorized, subject to the limitations and restrictions contained in section 3 of the said act of  , to undertake projects on lands belonging to or under the jurisdiction or control of counties and municipalities, and on lands in private ownership.

3. The Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Administrator of   are requested to cooperate with the Director of   in carrying out the purposes of the said act of  , as amended. Each of the said Secretaries and the said Administrator shall appoint a representative who shall, upon request of the Director, confer with him and under his direction aid him in prosecuting effectively the purposes contemplated by the said act, as amended.

4. This order shall take effect as of  .
