By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of   (48 Stat. 195), as amended by  . 113, approved  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   created by Executive Order No.   of September 27,  , is hereby terminated, and to provide for the continuing administration of the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act there is hereby created the office of Administrator of  .

2. The Administrator of   shall administer the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act as amended by  . 113, approved  , and may exercise all of those powers heretofore conferred by Executive   upon  , subject to the limitations upon such powers contained in the said  . 113, and subject also to the further provisions of this Executive Order. . . . I hereby appoint   as Acting Administrator of  .

3. For the further administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act as amended, there is hereby established  .   shall assemble, analyze, and report upon the statistical information and records of experience of the operations of the various trades and industries heretofore subject to codes of fair competition, shall study the effects of such codes upon trade, industrial and labor conditions in general, and other related matters, shall make available for the protection and promotion of the public interest an adequate review of the effects of the administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, and the principles and policies put into effect thereunder, and shall otherwise aid the President in carrying out his functions under the said  . I hereby appoint   Director of  .

4. There is hereby established  , the function and purpose of which shall be to aid in the voluntary maintenance by trade and industrial groups of standards of fair competition, in the elimination of unfair competition in the employment of labor or in trade practices, and in maintaining sources of information and records of experience useful in the work of  , and to otherwise assist in effectuating, so far as possible, the policies of   as amended. I hereby appoint   Director of  .

5. The Administrator . . . shall proceed forthwith to reduce as rapidly as possible the number of persons now employed in the administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act to the number necessary to perform the duties of such Administration as herein, or hereafter, prescribed. . . . I hereby appoint   Assistant to the Administrator of   to represent labor. . . .

7. All orders and regulations heretofore issued concerning the administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act are hereby modified to the extent necessary to make this order fully effective.
