Section 1. For the purposes of the said resolution, it is hereby determined that   has been and is now in arrears in payments of principal and interest under the debt-funding agreement between   and   dated  , with respect to the obligations of   on account of awards entered and to be entered by  ,   and  . The period in which   is in arrears shall be deemed to continue for the purposes of this order until it is determined by the President that such period has terminated.

Section 2. The restrictions imposed by the said resolution are hereby removed except as to the following payments, conveyances, transfers, or deliveries of money or property or of the income, issues, profits, or avails thereof:

1.To any person who was on  , or who at any time since that date has been, a   national, unless such person is entitled to receive payment under section 9, subsection (b) (1), of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or unless such person is a national of   at the time of payment, conveyance, transfer or delivery, and was on  , the legal and beneficial owner of the claim to the money or property or the income, issues, profits, or avails thereof, and on or before  ,   received written notice of such ownership.

2.To any person domiciled or resident within the territory of  , except a natural person who is a national of   at the time of payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery.

3.To any corporation, association, or partnership, or other unincorporated body of individuals or a body politic which on or at any time since  , was organized or existed under the laws of   or had its principal place of business in  .

4.To any corporation, association, or partnership, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or a body politic in which a substantial legal or beneficial interest is owned directly or indirectly by any person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1, 2, or 3 hereof, or to any person who is a trustee of such money or property for a person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1, 2, or 3 hereof.

5.To the heirs, devisees, legatees, executors, administrators, representatives, creditors, successors, or assigns of any person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1, 2,  , or 4 hereof, except to such heirs, devisees, or legatees as are natural persons and have been nationals of   from  , to the time of payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery.

Section 3. For the purposes of this   order, (a) the nationality, residence, domicile, or other qualification of claimants under the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, shall be that determined by the Attorney General; and (b) the nationality, residence, domicile, or other qualification of claimants to money or property or the income, issues, profits, or avails thereof, held in  , and in the   and  , shall be that determined by the Secretary of the  .
