By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 8 of the Rural Electrification Act of   (Public No. 605, 74th  ),   of   (49 Stat. 115),   (22 Stat. 403, 404), and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (U.S.C., title 5, section 631) it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The administration of loans and contracts made and entered into by   established by Executive   of  , is hereby vested in   appointed pursuant to the Rural Electrification Act of  .

2. The jurisdiction, control, and use of the records, property (including office equipment), and unexpended balances of appropriations or allotments or other funds as of the effective date of this  , used or employed or available in the exercise and performance of the functions of   established by Executive Order No. 7037 are hereby transferred to   established by the Rural Electrification Act of  .

3. All officers and employees of   established by Executive Order No. 7037 are hereby transferred to   established by the Rural Electrification Act of  . This transfer shall apply to all persons who on the effective date of this   are employed by   established by the said Executive Order.

4. Incumbents of positions affected by section 3 of this   who do not already possess a competitive classified status shall not acquire such status by reason of such transfer. However, any such person may acquire a competitive classified civil service status, provided: (a) that he has been appointed in   established by Executive Order No. 7037 at least sixty days prior to  ; (b) that he is unqualifiedly recommended to   by   established by the Rural Electrification Act of   within   subsequent to  ; (c) that he shall pass such appropriate non-competitive tests of fitness as   may prescribe; and (d) that he is a citizen of   and is not disqualified by any provision of section 4 of Civil Service Rule V or any other provision of  , or any provision of   or any other statute or executive order.

5. This   shall take effect  .
