By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), the following-described area is hereby established and reserved, for purposes of national defense, as a defensive sea area, to be known as "Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound Defensive Sea Area":

  territorial waters of Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound and their seaward approaches and tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C.&G.S. Charts to:

A line running from the southernmost tip of Sakonnet Point;

thence to   buoy #2 off   in approximate position Latitude 41°26'24" North, Longitude 71°11'39" West;

thence on a line due south to approximate position Latitude 41°18'03" North, Longitude 71°11'39" West;

thence due east to the southernmost tip of   on  ;

thence along the western and northern shore line of  ;

thence due north to the mainland in approximate  °32'36" North, Longitude 70°36'00" West.

No vessel not proceeding under   or other   authorized supervision shall enter or navigate the waters of the said Defensive Sea Area, except during daylight when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Such permission for entry into or navigation through or within the said Area must be obtained in advance of entry, preferably by application at   District Headquarters prior to leaving port of origin of voyage, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the Area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs., and permission to enter the port requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of the master must be given in the request, which should be addressed to   or his local representative as may be designated and published in local regulations issued by  . If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.

A vessel entering or navigating the waters of the Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound Defensive Sea Area does so at its own risk.

Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering the Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound Defensive Sea Area to obey any further instructions received from  , or other   authority.

The movements of vessels within the Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound Defensive Sea Area shall be subject to supervision, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft or aircraft shall be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.

In the event that a   Maritime Control Area is established adjacent to or abutting upon the above-established defensive sea area, permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas.

Any master of a vessel or other person within the Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound Defensive Sea Area who disregards these regulations, or fails to obey an order of   authority to stop or heave to, or performs any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or takes any action inimical to the interests of  , may be detained therein by force of arms and shall be liable to attack by   armed forces, and liable to prosecution as provided for in section 44 of the Criminal Code as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

  authorities shall place at the disposal of the   authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations. The Governor of  , the local municipal authorities, and the local civilian defense agencies are called upon to render the local   authorities all possible assistance in the enforcement of these regulations.

These regulations are subject to amplification by the local   authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.

The Secretary of the   is charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.
