By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, by the Act of  , entitled "An Act to promote the defense of  " (hereafter referred to as the Act), and by  ,  ," and acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, in order to define further the functions and duties of   of the President in respect to the national emergency as declared by the President on  , and in order to provide for the more effective administration of those Acts in the interests of national defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There shall be in   of the President an Office of Lend-Lease Administration, at the head of which shall be an Administrator, appointed by the President, who shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall approve, and, in addition, shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.

2. Subject to such policies as the President may from time to time prescribe, the Administrator is hereby authorized and directed, pursuant to Section 9 of the Act, to exercise any power or authority conferred upon the President by that Act and by  ,  , and any acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, with respect to any Nation whose defense the President shall have found to be vital to the defense of  : Provided, That the master agreement with each Nation receiving lend-lease aid, setting forth the general terms and conditions under which such Nation is receiving such aid, shall continue to be negotiated by  , with the advice of   and  .

3. The Administrator shall make appropriate arrangements with   for the review and clearance of those lend-lease transactions which in the judgment of the   affect the economic defense of   as defined in Executive Order No. 8839 of  .

4. Within the limitation of such funds as may be made available for that purpose, the Administrator may appoint one or more Deputy or Assistant Administrators and other personnel, delegate to them any power or authority conferred by these orders, and make provision for such supplies, facilities, and services as shall be necessary to carry out the provisions of this  . In so far as practicable,   shall use such general business services and facilities as may be made available to it through   or other agencies of the Government.

5. Executive  . 8751 of  , establishing   and defining its functions and duties, is hereby revoked.
