Executive Order 9153-A—Withdrawing Public Lands for Use of  
 
 

ALASKA

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered that, subject to valid existing rights and to Executive Orders No.   withdrawing certain lands for the use of  , No. 7622 of   withdrawing certain lands near the town of   for use by  , No.   of   withdrawing certain lands near the town of   for town site purposes, and to   reserving certain lands near the town of   as a coal storage and supply depot, the public lands in the following-described areas be, and they are hereby, withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public-land laws, including the mining laws, and reserved for the use of   for military purposes:

Tract No. 1

Beginning at a point on line of mean high tide on north shore of Makushin Bay,  , 53°45'31" N. latitude, 166°55' W. longitude, as shown on  .  .

Thence from said initial point, by metes and bounds,

North across Unalaska Island to line of mean high tide on Bering Sea;

Easterly and southwesterly around Cape Cheerful, Cape Kaletka,   and Brundage Head along line of mean high tide with meanders of Bering Sea, Unalaska Bay,  ,  ,  , and   to the head of Erskine Bay;

Southwesterly on straight line across Unalaska Island to the head of Portage Bay at mean high tide;

  and northwesterly along shore of Portage Bay and   at mean high tide around   to the point of beginning.

The area described, including both public and non-public lands, aggregates 200,000 acres.

Tract No. 2

All of Hog Island, in Unalaska Bay, near Unalaska Island, as shown on  .  .

The area described aggregates 110 acres.

Tract No. 3

All of those portions of  ,  , and the small islands and rocks adjacent thereto, lying between 53°13'00'' and 53°35'00'' N. latitudes and 167°28'30" and 168°6'00" W. longitudes, as shown on  .  .

The areas described aggregate 148,000 acres.

Executive Order No. 8789 of   reserving for the use of the   portions of the lands described herein as Tract No. 1 is hereby revoked.

This order is confidential and shall not be published in  , and shall not be made public in any other manner except upon prior authorization by the Secretary of War.

 

 ,

 .

Note: Confidential status released by letter of the Secretary of War dated  .
