Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by  ,  , approved   (Public Law 354, Seventy-seventh  ), and the Act of   (Public Law 11, Seventy-seventh  ), as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows;

1. In addition to the responsibilities and duties heretofore conferred,   is authorized and directed to:

a. Receive and be responsible for executing directives from the Chairman of   as to quantities, specifications, delivery time schedules, and priorities of materials and commodities (other than arms, munitions, or weapons of war as defined in the President's Proclamation of  , as amended) required to be imported for the war production effort and the civilian economy: and determine the policies, plans, procedures, and methods of the several   departments, establishments, and agencies with respect to the procurement and production of such materials and commodities, including the financing thereof; and issue such directives, or initiate such proposals in respect thereto as it may deem necessary.

b. Direct, with the approval of the President, the creation, organization, and financing of a corporation or corporations, pursuant to subsection 3 of the fourth paragraph of section 5 (d) of  , as amended, the objects and purposes of which shall be:

(1) To obtain from foreign sources such materials, supplies, and commodities (other than arms, munitions, or weapons of war as defined in the President's Proclamation of  , as amended) as are necessary for the successful prosecution of the war, and provide for the production, delivery, sale, or other disposition thereof; and

(2) To take such other action as may be deemed necessary to facilitate the war effort and strengthen the international economic relations of  .

c. Advise   with respect to the terms and conditions to be included in the master agreement with each nation receiving lend-lease aid under the Act of March II,  , entitled "An Act Further to Promote the Defense of the United States and for Other Purposes," and Acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.

d. Provide and arrange for the receipt by   of reciprocal aid and benefits (other than arms, munitions, or weapons of war as defined in the President's Proclamation of  , as amended) from the government of any country whose defense shall have been determined by the President to be vital to the defense of   pursuant to the Act of   (Public Law 11, Seventy-seventh  ), and determine the terms upon which such aid and benefits shall be received, including the authorization of other governmental agencies to receive such aid and benefits.

e. Represent   in dealing with the economic warfare agencies of   for the purpose of relating the  's economic warfare program and facilities to those of such nations.

2. For the purpose of carrying out its responsibilities,   may arrange through   to send abroad such technical, engineering, and economic representatives responsible to the   as the   may deem necessary.

3. The responsibilities, duties and powers transferred to and conferred upon   by this   may be exercised and performed by the Chairman of the Board, or by the Executive Director of the Board, or such other officials or employees as the Chairman may designate.

4. Executive Orders No. 8839 of  ; No. 8900 of  ; No. 8982 of  ; No. 8926 of   are amended accordingly; and any provisions of these or other pertinent Executive Orders conflicting with this   are superseded.

 

 ,

 .
