Executive Order  —Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C.,  . 132), and by the act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended, it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as Chapter I thereof:

CHAPTER I

FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL

 .

Officers and employees of  .

—(a)

Officers of  .

The term "officers of  " shall denote:

(1) Ambassadors and ministers—diplomatic representatives appointed to serve at the pleasure of the President.

(2)   officers—permanent officers in the Foreign Service below the grade of minister who are subject to promotion on merit and who may be appointed as diplomatic or consular officers.

(3) Vice consuls—clerks who have been commissioned by the Secretary of   to perform consular duties.

(4) Consular agents—consular officers subordinate to principal consular officers exercising the powers vested in them and performing the duties prescribed for them by regulation of the President at posts or places different from those at which such principals are located. ( , 38 Stat. 806; 22 U.S.C.,  . 51.)

(b)

Employees o1  . The term "employees of  " shall denote clerks, other than vice consuls, and miscellaneous employees in   establishments.

I-2.

Governing bodies in  .

—(a)

 .

  for  , established by section 31 of the act of  , 46 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.,  .  ), shall, in addition to performing those duties imposed upon it by that statute, act in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of   in matters pertaining to the assignments and changes in status of officers of  .

(b)

 .

 , in  , shall, in addition to performing those duties imposed upon it by section 32 of the act of  , 46 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.,  .  ), coordinate and maintain the personnel reports and records of officers and employees of  .

I-3.

Appointments o officers and employees in  .

—(a)

Ambassadors and ministers.

Ambassadors and ministers are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  . (Const.,  . I,  . 2.)

(b)

Foreign Service officers.

Foreign Service officers are appointed to positions in the classified Foreign Service of   by the President of  , by and with the advice and consent of the  , either after examination or after   of continuous service in an executive or quasi-executive position in  , by transfer therefrom. (46 Stat.  ; 22 U.S.C.,  . 5.)

(1)

Examinations for  .

Examinations for the Foreign Service shall be given in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by  , which is hereby established and which shall be composed of three Assistant Secretaries of State designated by the Secretary of  , an officer of   designated by the Secretary of   and acceptable to the Secretary of  , an officer of   designated by the Secretary of Agriculture and acceptable to the Secretary of  , the Chief of  , and the Chief Examiner of  . Any member of   may, when he deems it necessary, designate another officer of his department acceptable to the Secretary of   to serve for him on the  .

(2)

Basis for appointments after   service in  .

Appointments after   service in   as above stated may be made to positions in any classes in   on the basis of recommendations submitted by  .

(c)

Vice consuls.

Vice consuls shall be commissioned by the Secretary of  .

(d)

  agents.

  agents shall be commissioned by the Secretary of   upon the receipt of nominations from the officer in charge of the particular district.

(e)

Employees.

Clerks and other employees of   shall be appointed directly by the Secretary of   or by the officer in charge of the post subject to the approval of the Secretary of  .

I-4.

Duties of officers and employees upon entering office.

—(a)

Oath of office.

After appointment, all ambassadors, ministers,   officers, vice consuls, and all   consular agents and employees of   are required to take the oath of office prescribed by section 1757 of the Revised Statutes of  , as amended by section 2 of the act of  , 23 Stat. 22 (5 U.S.C.,  . 16).

(b)

  to be executed by officers of   upon appointment to office.

After appointment, officers of   are required to execute Standard Form No.  , entitled "  to be Executed by Officers of   upon Appointment to Office," in conformity with the provisions of section 1 of the act of  , as amended, 44 Stat. 918 (5 U.S.C.,  .  ).

(c)

Submission of information for personnel records.

Officers and employees of   shall submit such information as may be required for the personnel records maintained in  .

I-5.

Foreign Service Officers' Training School.

There is hereby established in   a school to be known as  . This school shall be under the general supervision of the Secretary of   and shall be conducted in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by him subject to the following provisions of this section:

(a)

 .

  shall be under the immediate direction of a board to be known as  , which shall be composed of the members of  , the Chief of  , and the Director of the  . All decisions of the   shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of  .

(b)

Director of  .

There shall be a Director of   who shall be selected, subject to the approval of the Secretary of  , by   from available   officers.

(c)

Instructors in Foreign Service Officers' Training School.

Instructors for   shall be selected by   from available   officers, qualified personnel in  , and other Executive departments, and, in the discretion of  , from any other available sources.

(d)

Probationary period of new appointees to  .

New appointees to   shall serve, at such time and for such duration as the Secretary of   may determine, a period of probation in   Training School herein established.

I-6.

Compensation of officers and employees of  .

The compensation of officers and employees of   shall be at the rates established by law, or by regulation of the Secretary of  .

I-7.

Bonds of officers in  .

—(a)

Foreign Service officers and vice consuls.

  officer and vice consul shall, before receiving his original commission and entering upon the duties of his office, give to   a bond conditioned as provided in section 16 of the act of  , 46 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.,  . 11), with such sureties as the Secretary of   shall approve, and in penal sum as follows:

Foreign Service officers, Class I to Class VIII, Inclusive---- $10,000

Foreign Service officers,  , (A), (B), and (C)------- 5,000

Vice consuls------------------------------------------------------------------ 5,000

(b)

  agents.

  agents shall not be required to give bonds to  . However, a consular officer having a consular agent under his supervision may take from him a bond in such amount as the officer may deem necessary for his own protection.

(c)

Employees.

Employees of the Foreign Service shall not be required to give bonds to  . However, a principal officer having an employee in his office who has access to the funds of the office may take from him a bond in such amount as the officer may deem necessary for his own protection.

I-8.

Assignments of officers and employees of  .

—(a)

Ambassadors and ministers.

Ambassadors and ministers are appointed to serve at particular posts.

(b)

Foreign Service officers.

A Foreign Service officer may be assigned, by the Secretary of  , to duty at either a diplomatic or a consular post, or both, at the discretion of the President, or, without loss of class or salary, for service in   for a period of not more than 3 years, unless the public interests demand further service, when such assignment may be extended for a period not to exceed  . ( , 46 Stat.  ; 22 U.S.C., secs. 2,  .)

(c)

Vice consuls and employees.

Vice consuls and employees in the Foreign Service shall be assigned by the Secretary of  , in his discretion, to serve at designated posts.

I-9.

Assignments of ambassadors, ministers, and Foreign Service officers to special details.

Ambassadors, ministers, and Foreign Service officers may be detailed by the Secretary of   for duty in connection with trade conferences or international gatherings, congresses, or conferences, or for other special duty either in   or elsewhere. ( , 46 Stat.  ; 22 U.S.C.,  . 16.)

I-10.

Assignments of Foreign Service officers as   inspectors.

Foreign Service officers above the grade of Class VI may be assigned by the Secretary of   inspectors to inspect and report on the work of diplomatic and consular offices. ( , 46 Stat. 1200; 22 U.S.C.,  . 9.)

I-11.

  officers as agricultural attachés.

The Secretary of   may designate   officers to serve as agricultural attaches when the public interest so requires. In like manner,   officers may be designated to serve as assistant agricultural attachés.

I-12.

  officers as commercial attachés.

The Secretary of   may designate   officers to serve as commercial attachés when the public interest so requires. In like manner,   officers may be designated to serve as assistant commercial attachés.

I-13.

Assignment of Foreign Service officers as language officers.

Foreign Service officers may be assigned by the Secretary of   as language officers to study the language or languages of, and to engage in other prescribed studies in relation to, a particular geographic area, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe governing such studies. Foreign Service officers may likewise be designated as language secretaries to supervise the studies of language officers.

I-14.

Limitation on public speeches.

Officers of   shall not allude in public speeches to disputes between governments, to active political issues in   or elsewhere, or to any matters pending in any   establishment.

I-15.

Limitation on political conversation and activities.

Officers of   shall not participate in any manner in political matters of the country to which they are accredited or assigned. They shall also refrain from expressing harsh or disagreeable opinions upon local political questions or other controversial subjects.

I-16.

Limitation on participation in club or organization activities.

Unless otherwise authorized by  , an officer of   shall refrain from joining social organizations if membership therein would affiliate the officer with any particular faction of the community in which he is stationed.

I-17.

Limitation on correspondence.

Officers of   are forbidden to make any allusion in their public or private correspondence with persons other than the proper officials of   to the public affairs of any foreign government, whether political or otherwise, or to political issues arising in  . Questionnaires on political issues shall be acknowledged and the inquirer referred to  . ( , 18 Stat. 77; 22 U.S.C.,  . 126.)

I-18.

Limitation on private communications relating to official matters.

Officers of   shall not, except in unusual circumstances, conduct private correspondence with officers of   upon topics relating to official business.

I-19.

Prohibitions against engaging in business.

Officers of   are forbidden to transact, engage in, or have any interest in any business to, from, or within the limits of their respective jurisdictions, either in their own names or in the names or through the agency of any other persons.

Officers of   are also forbidden to make any investments of money within the limits of the foreign country to which the officers are accredited or assigned. This prohibition shall apply to the owning of real estate, bonds, shares, stocks, and mortgages, but does not extend to the purchase of a house and land for personal use. ( , and  ; 38 Stat. 807, 34 Stat. 101; 22 U.S.C., secs. 38, 106.)

I-20.

Prohibitions against use of title or official seal for private business.

Officers of   shall not use their official titles or seals in private business transactions, or on bills, notes, bonds, or other personal obligations. The seal shall be used only in connection with official services and shall be kept under lock to prevent its use by unauthorized persons.

I-21.

Limitation on making recommendations for positions.

An officer of   shall not recommend any one for a position other than a subordinate position in his own office.

I-22.

Limitation on employment of members of family.

Members of the family of an officer of   shall not be employed in his office except in a grave emergency and with the express authorization of   received in advance of the employment, and such employment shall continue only for such length of time as the situation remains acute.

I-23.

Prohibition against acceptance of presents, testimonials, and gratuities by officers and employees of  .

Officers and employees of   are prohibited from accepting, under any circumstances, any present, decoration, medal, order, or testimonial that may be tendered to them by any foreign sovereign, head of state, or foreign government. (Const.,  . I,  . 9, cl. 8;  , 18 Stat. 77; 22 U.S.C.,  . 126.) Such officers and employees shall not accept gratuities or gifts in any form from persons or organizations who may in any way be affected by the performance of their official duties.

I-24.

Prohibition against acting as transmitting agent for gifts and communications.

Officers of   shall not act as transmitting agents for gifts or communications from citizens, subjects, or organizations in foreign countries to the President of   or to  , or municipal officials; or for gifts or communications from citizens or organizations in   to the heads of foreign states or other officials in foreign countries.

I-25.

Limitation on preferring of charges.

An officer or employee of   shall not attack, prefer charges against, or publicly criticize any other officer or employee of   except in a confidential communication to the proper official in  .

I-26.

Limitation on marriage of   officers to aliens.

Before contracting marriage with a person of foreign nationality each   officer shall request and obtain permission so to do from the Secretary of   under such instructions as may be issued to him, and any officer who shall contract marriage with an alien without obtaining in advance the authorization of the Secretary of   shall be deemed guilty of insubordination and shall be separated from the Service. Each request for permission to marry an alien shall be accompanied by the officer's resignation from   for such action as may be deemed appropriate.

No person married to an alien shall be designated to take the entrance examinations for  .

I-27.

Limitation on wearing of uniforms and decorations.

Officers and employees of   are forbidden to wear any uniform, other than one authorized by the  , or any decoration, other than one bestowed upon him by  , during the period he is connected with  . ( .  ; 22 U.S.C.,  . 39.)

I-28.

Involuntary separation from  .

A Foreign Service officer may be separated from   in accordance with the provisions of section 33 of the act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended by section 4 of the act of  , 53 Stat. 588 (22 U.S.C.,  . V,  .  ), and such administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent therewith as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

I-29.

Retirement of persons eligible for benefits under  .

—(a)

Classes of persons eligible for retirement benefits.

Persons coming within the scope of any of the following classes may be retired or be eligible for retirement in accordance with and subject to the requirements of  , as established under the provisions of the act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended, and such administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent therewith as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  :

(a) Foreign Service officers.

(b) Ambassadors, ministers, and persons appointed to positions in  , as follows:

(1) Those who have been or may hereafter be appointed directly from positions in the classified Foreign Service and thereafter, without break in the continuity of their service, have occupied or shall occupy positions as ambassadors, ministers,   officers, or positions in  .

(2) Those who were included in the act of  , 44 Stat. 902, and whose status is continued in effect under the provisions of section 26 (n) of the act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended by the act of  , 53 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.  . V,  . 21 (n)).

(3) Subject to election, those (including former ambassadors or ministers) who have served an aggregate period of   or more in any of the capacities specified in, and as provided in, section 26 (o) of the act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended by the act of  , 53 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.  . V,  . 21 (o)), and who pay the special lump-sum contribution required in such cases by the provisions of section 26 (n) of the said act of  , 46 Stat.  , as amended by the said act of  , 53 Stat.   (22 U.S.C.  . V,  . 21 (n)).

(b)

  purchase of additional retirement benefits.

Foreign Service officers may purchase additional retirement benefits in accordance with the provisions of section 26 (c) of the said act of  , as amended by section 3 of the act of  , 53 Stat. 584, and such administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent therewith as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

I-30.

Retirement of   vice consuls, clerks, and other employees of  .

All vice consuls, clerks, and other employees in  , who are citizens of  , whose tenure of employment is not intermittent or of uncertain duration, and who are not eligible for benefits under   ( . 1-29) may be retired, or be eligible for retirement, in accordance with, and subject to the requirements of,   of  , 46 Stat. 468, as amended.

CANCELLATION OF REGULATIONS

The following-described provisions of   of   are hereby canceled:

PART I

Sections IV-8, IV-9,   to  , inclusive,  ,  ,  , VIII-12,  , XV-1,  , XV-5 to XV-7, inclusive, XVI-2,  , XVI-5, XVI-6, and XVI-21.

Chapter III

PART II

Sections XXIV-434 to XXIV-436, inclusive, XXIV-438, XXIV-451, XXIV-452,  , and XXIV-459.

Chapters I and II.

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS

The following-described Executive orders are hereby revoked:

Executive Order No. 171, dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No. 7577, dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Executive Order No.  , dated  

Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Executive Order No.  , dated  .

 

 ,

 .
