Executive Order  —Transferring Certain Functions, Property, and   to the Alien Property Custodian
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , under the Constitution and laws of  , and in particular by Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , approved   (Public Law No. 354, 77th  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All authority, rights, privileges, powers, duties, and functions transferred or delegated to  , to be administered under the supervision of the Attorney General, by Executive Order No.   of  , or vested in, transferred or delegated to, the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of  , by Executive Order No. 8136 of  , are hereby transferred to   provided for by Executive Order No.  , dated  .

2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 hereof, all property of  , including records, files, supplies, furniture, and equipment, and all funds, securities, choses in action, real estate, patents, trade marks, copyrights, and all other property of whatsoever kind, held or administered by the Attorney General under and pursuant to the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, are hereby transferred to  , to be administered and disposed of under his supervision and direction.

3. All administrative or general or other expenses of   in the administration of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, including the administration of Executive Order No.  , may be paid out of any funds or other property transferred to the Alien Property Custodian hereunder, whether or not such expenses relate to the property transferred hereunder, or were incurred before or after  .

4. The personnel of   is hereby transferred to   without loss of such civil service status or eligibility therefor as they may have.

5. All litigation in which   or   is interested shall be conducted under the supervision of the Attorney General.   and the Attorney General shall from time to time render such advice on legal matters to   and   as the Attorney General and   may from time to time agree upon. For the purpose of defraying such expenses as may be incurred by   or the Attorney General in the rendering of advice as aforesaid or in the conduct of litigation in which   or   or interested, including expenses for salaries of personnel and all other charges, the Alien Property Custodian may from time to time make available out of the funds or other property in his possession or control such funds as the Attorney General and   may from time to time agree to be necessary therefor. Nothing in this order shall be construed to require   to surrender possession of any files and records relating to any litigation heretofore or hereafter conducted by it.

6. This order shall not be construed as modifying or limiting in any way the authority heretofore granted to  .

7. This order shall remain in force during the continuance of the present war and for   after the termination thereof.

8. All prior Executive orders insofar as they are in conflict herewith are hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 .
