Executive  —Administration of Benefits Provided by Act of   Approved   
 

Whereas

section 1 of the act of  , c. 830, 49 Stat.  , as amended by section 5 of the act entitled "An Act to provide more effectively for the national defense by carrying out the recommendations of the President in his message of  , to the  ," approved  Pub., No. 18, 76th  ), provides, in part, as follows:

"That all officers, warrant officers, and enlisted men of  , other than the officers and enlisted men of  , if called or ordered into the active military service by   for extended military service in excess of  , and who suffer disability or death in line of duty from disease or injury while so employed shall be deemed to have been in the active military service during such period and shall be in all respects entitled to receive the same pensions, compensation, retirement pay, and hospital benefits as are now or may hereafter be provided by law or regulation for officers and enlisted men of corresponding grades and length of service of  .";

Whereas

the said act is silent as to what agency shall administer the benefits provided thereby; and

Whereas

it is deemed appropriate and desirable that such administration be placed in the Veterans' Administration:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and by the act of  ,  , 46 Stat.  , the duties, powers, and functions incident to the administration and payment of the benefits provided by the statute as above set out are hereby vested in the Veterans' Administration:

Provided

, That in the administration of the retirement provisions of the said statute, the determination whether disability exists and whether such disability was incurred in line of duty shall be made by the Secretary of War, or by someone designated by him in  , in the manner, and in accordance with the standards, provided by law or regulations for   personnel.

 

 ,

 .

Note: Cross reference: Executive Order   of  , Chapter 32, amends this order.

 : The three military departments ( ,  , including   and  , and  ) of   were reorganized under   pursuant to the National Security Act of  , approved   (61 Stat. 495, 5 U.S.C. 171).   was designated as   by   of   (63 Stat. 579, 5 U.S.C. 171).
