Executive Order  —Establishing   in   of the President and Transferring and Coordinating Certain Functions to Facilitate the Mobilization and Utilization of Manpower
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the First War Powers Act,  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and for the purpose of assuring the most effective mobilization and utilization of the national manpower, it is hereby ordered:

1. There is established within   of the President a War Manpower Commission, hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall consist of   as Chairman, and a representative of each of the following departments and agencies:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   of  ,  , and  .

2. The Chairman, after consultation with the members of the  , shall:

(a) Formulate plans and programs and establish basic national policies to assure the most effective mobilization and maximum utilization of the  's manpower in the prosecution of the war; and issue such policy and operating directives as may be necessary thereto.

(b) Estimate the requirements of manpower for industry; review all other estimates of needs for military, agricultural, and civilian manpower; and direct the several departments and agencies of the Government as to the proper allocation of available manpower.

(c) Determine basic policies for, and take such other steps as are necessary to coordinate, the collection and compilation of labor market data by Federal departments and agencies.

(d) Establish policies and prescribe regulations governing all Federal programs relating to the recruitment, vocational training, and placement of workers to meet the needs of industry and agriculture.

(e) Prescribe basic policies governing the filling of   requirements for manpower, excluding those of the military and naval forces, and issue such operating directives as may be necessary thereto.

(f) Formulate legislative programs designed to facilitate the most effective mobilization and utilization of the manpower of the country; and, with the approval of the President, recommend such legislation as may be necessary for this purpose.

3. The following agencies shall conform to such policies, directives, regulations, and standards as the Chairman may prescribe in the execution of the powers vested in him by this  , and shall be subject to such other coordination by the Chairman as may be necessary to enable the Chairman to discharge the responsibilities placed upon him:

(a)   with respect to the use and classification of manpower needed for critical industrial, agricultural, and governmental employment.

(b)   with respect to employment service and defense training functions.

(c)   with respect to placement and training functions.

(d)   with respect to functions relating to the filling of positions in  .

(e)   with respect to employment service activities.

(f)   of  .

(g)   of  .

(h)  .

(i)   with respect to farm labor statistics, farm labor camp programs, and other labor market activities.

(j)   with respect to labor supply and requirement activities.

Similarly, all other Federal departments and agencies which perform functions relating to the recruitment or utilization of manpower shall, in discharging such functions, conform to such policies, directives, regulations, and standards as the Chairman may prescribe in the execution of the powers vested in him by this  ; and shall be subject to such other coordination by the Chairman as may be necessary to enable the Chairman to discharge the responsibilities placed upon him.

4. The following agencies and functions are transferred to  .

(a) The labor supply functions of  .

(b)   and   of   and its functions.

(c)   in   in   and its functions.

5. The following agencies and functions are transferred to  , and shall be administered under the direction and supervision of such officer or employee as   shall designate:

(a) The Apprenticeship Section of the Division of Labor Standards of   and its functions.

(b) The training functions of  .

6.   and   transferred to   and   transferred to   shall be preserved as organizational entities within   and   respectively.

7. The functions of the head of any department or agency relating to the administration of any agency or function transferred from his department or agency by this   are transferred to, and shall be exercised by, the head of the department or agency to which such transferred agency or function is transferred by this  .

8. All records and property (including office equipment) of the several agencies and all records and property used primarily in the administration of any functions transferred or consolidated by this  , and all personnel used in the administration of such agencies and functions (including officers whose chief duties relate to such administration) are transferred to the respective agencies concerned, for use in the administration of the agencies and functions transferred or consolidated by this  ; provided, that any personnel transferred to any agency by this  , found by the head of such agency to be in excess of the personnel necessary for the administration of the functions transferred to his agency, shall be retransfered under existing procedure to other positions in the Government service or separated from the service. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds available for the use of any agency in the exercise of any function transferred or consolidated by this   or for the use of the head of any agency in the exercise of any function so transferred or consolidated, as the Director of   with the approval of the President shall determine, shall be transferred to the agency concerned, for use in connection with the exercise of functions so transferred or consolidated. In determining the amount to be transferred, the Director of   may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, allocations, or other funds prior to the transfer or consolidation.

9. Within the limits of such funds as may be made available for that purpose, the Chairman may appoint such personnel and make provision for such supplies, facilities, and services as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this  . The Chairman may appoint an executive officer of the   and may exercise and perform the powers, authorities, and duties set forth in this   through such officials or agencies and in such manner as he may determine.

 

 ,

 .
