Executive  —Transfer of Certain Central Administrative Services of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and Statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act.  , and as President of the United Staten, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The fiscal functions performed by   with respect to   and   in   and in the field (including but not limited to appropriation and allotment accounting, payroll preparation and administrative examination, certification and scheduling of vouchers, but not including procurements are transferred to   and  , respectively

2. The function of recruitment of personnel in the field, performed by the said   with respect to  , the constituent agencies thereof, and  , is transferred to  .

3. The function of classification of field positions which are subject to the grades and schedules of the Classification Act of  , as amended, performed by the said   with respect to  , the constituent agencies thereof, and  , is transferred to   and shall be exercised in accordance with the following requirements:

(a)   shall promulgate standards for the proper classification of field positions in accordance with the grades and salaries prescribed by the Classification Act of  , as amended.

(b) The heads of  , its constituent agencies, and   shall each, acting through his designated representatives, (1) allocate field positions in his agency to appropriate position classes in accordance with the standards promulgated by  , and (2) refer to the   for allocation such field positions as are not covered by the standards promulgated by the  .

(c)   shall (1) make necessary post audits to verify conformity of allocations with the standards promulgated by the  , and (2) report any erroneous allocations to the head of the agency concerned for correction or satisfactory explanation.

4. There is transferred, for use in connection with the functions transferred by this order, to the respective agencies to which such functions are transferred, so much, as the Director of   shall determine, (a) of the personnel, records, and property (including office equipment) used in the administration of the functions so transferred, and (b) of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds available for the administration of the functions so transferred. In determining the sums to be transferred the said Director may include amounts to provide for the liquidation of obligations previously incurred against such balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds.

5. The transfers provided for in the foregoing paragraphs shall be effective on such date or dates as the Director of   shall designate.

 

 ,

 .
