Executive  —Disposition of the Functions and Termination of the Division of Central Administrative Services of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and laws of  , and in consonance with the provisions relating to   contained in  ,  , approved   (Public Law 372—78th  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) shall be terminated, and its functions shall be discontinued or transferred to the constituent agencies of   and other appropriate Federal agencies, as hereinafter provided:

a. The Director of   shall make an administrative determination with respect to the disposition to be made of each function of the  , and shall order the transfer of each such function (except the functions of acquiring and disposing of property vested in the   by Executive Order No.   of  ) to such Federal agency or agencies as he may designate, or, in appropriate circumstances, shall order the discontinuance of any such function.

b. The Director of   shall make such other administrative determinations as may be required in carrying out the purposes of this order, including determinations with respect to the time, conditions, and manner of the transfer or discontinuance of functions and of the termination of the  .

c. So much of the personnel, records, property (including contracts and rights), funds, and obligations of the   as the Director may determine shall be transferred to the respective agencies to which functions are transferred pursuant to this order. Any personnel, records, property (including contracts and rights), funds, and obligations not so transferred shall, subject to the determination of   in the case of personnel, and of the Director in the other cases, be otherwise transferred or disposed of in such manner as is provided by law or executive order.

2. All prior executive orders and letters of the President (including letters of  , and  ) in conflict with this order are modified to the extent of such conflict.

 

 ,

 .
