Executive Order  —Authorizing the Secretary of the   to Take Possession of and Operate the Plants and Facilities of the Pacific Gear and  ,  , the Link-Belt Company (Pacific Division),  , and the Enterprise Engine and    ,  
 
 

Whereas

after an investigation I find and proclaim that the plants and facilities of the Pacific Gear and  ,  , the Link-Belt Company (Pacific Division),  , and the Enterprise Engine and  , located at  ,  , are equipped for the manufacture and production of articles and materials that are required for the war effort, or that are useful in connection therewith; that there are existing interruptions of the operation of said plants and facilities as a result of a labor disturbance; that the war effort will be unduly impeded or delayed by these interruptions; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure, in the interests of the war effort, the operation of these plants and facilities;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 9 of the Selective Training and Service Act of  , as amended, as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is hereby directed as follows:

1. The Secretary of the   is hereby authorized and directed, through and with the aid of any persons or instrumentalities that he may designate, to take possession of the plants and facilities of the Pacific Gear and  ,  , the Link-Belt Company (Pacific Division),  , and the Enterprise Engine and  , located at  ,  , and, to the extent that he may deem necessary, of any real or personal property, and other assets wherever situated, used in connection with the operations thereof; to operate or to arrange for the operation of the plants and facilities in any manner that he deems necessary for the succesful prosecution of the war; to exercise any contractual or other rights of the Pacific Gear and  ,  ,  ),  , and the Enterprise Engine and   and to continue the employment of, or to employ, any persons, and to do any other thing that he may deem necessary for, or incidental to, the operation of the said plants and facilities and the production, sale and distribution of the products thereof; and to take any other steps that he deems necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of this order.

2. The Secretary of the   shall operate the said plants and facilities pursuant to the provisions of the War Labor Disputes Act, and during his operation of the plants and facilities shall observe the terms and conditions of     dated  , as modified by   dated  .

3. The Secretary of the   shall permit the managements of the plants and facilities taken under the provisions of this order to continue with their managerial functions to the maximum degree possible, consistent with the aims of this order.

4. The Secretary of the   is authorized to take such action, if any, as he may deem necessary or desirable to provide protection for the plants and all persons employed or seeking employment therein.

5. Possession, control, and operation of any plant or facility, or part thereof, taken under this order shall be terminated by the Secretary of the   within   after he determines that the productive efficiency of the plant, facility, or part thereof prevailing prior to the existing interruptions of production, referred to in the recitals of this order, has been restored.

 

 ,

 .
