Executive Order  —Extending the Periods of Training and Service,  , and   in or Subject to    
 
 

By virtue of the authority conferred upon me by section 2 of the Service Extension Act of 1941 (Public Law 213, 77th  ), approved  , and as Commander-in-Chief of the   and   of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The periods of training and service of all persons inducted for training and service under the provisions of   of  , as amended, who are now, or who may hereafter be, in such training and service are hereby extended for  , unless such persons are sooner discharged. Notwithstanding such extension of the periods of training and service, the Secretary of War shall, as the interests of national defense permit, release from training and service and transfer to a reserve component of the land forces, as provided in section 3 (c) of   of  , as amended, all those persons who shall have completed   of such training and service. The release of such persons from training and service and their transfer to a reserve component of the land forces shall be accomplished with a view to the early creation of a large trained reserve while, at the same time, maintaining the   in immediate readiness for use in the defense of the nation.

2. The periods of active military service of all members of  , all members of  , and all members and units of   of  , who are now, or who may hereafter be, in the active military service of  , pursuant to orders issued under the authority of Public Resolution No. 96, 76th  , approved  , are hereby extended for  , unless such persons or units are sooner released or discharged. After completion in each case of   of active military service by such persons and units, and as the interests of national defense permit, the Secretary of War shall provide for the release of such persons or units from active military service under such regulations as he shall from time to time prescribe.

3. The periods of enlistment of all persons who are now, or who may hereafter be, enlisted in  ,  ,  , and   of   are hereby extended for  , unless such persons are sooner discharged. After completion in each case of the unextended period of enlistment by such persons, and as the interests of national defense permit, the Secretary of War shall provide for their discharge under such regulations as he shall from time to time prescribe.

 

 ,

 .
