Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

ALASKA

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of  ,  , 36 Stat. 847, as amended by the act of  ,  , 37 Stat. 497, it is ordered that, for the purpose of protecting the natural feeding and breeding ranges of the brown bears and other wildlife on   and  ,  , without undue interference with the raising of cattle and other livestock thereon, both wildlife and livestock being of economic value to the inhabitants of the islands, all of the hereinafter-described areas of land and water of   lying on Uganik Island and on the western portion of  ,  , comprising 1,957,000 acres, more or less, be, and they are hereby, subject to valid existing rights, withdrawn and reserved for the use of   and   as a refuge and breeding ground for brown bears and other wildlife for carrying out the purposes of the Alaska Game Law of  , 43 Stat. 739,  , title  , secs. 192-211, as amended:

SEWARD MERIDIAN

All of Uganik Island located near the north end of   in approximate latitude 57°53' N., longitude 153°21' W.;

All of that part of   lying west of the following-described boundary:

Beginning at an initial point at a gap on the divide between the waters of Kizhuyak Bay and   located approximately one mile west of the summit of Crown Mountain in approximate latitude 57°36' N., longitude 152°56'30" W., and from said initial point northeasterly with the main drainage course to the south end of Kizhuyak Bay, and also from said initial point with the main drainage course southerly to the western reaches of  , excepting from the above-described area the proposed   Reservation for the inhabitants of the native village of  ,  , authorized by section 2 of the act of  , 49 Stat.  , described as follows:

Beginning at the end of a point of land on the shore of Shelikof Strait on  , said point being about one and one-quarter miles east of   and in approximate latitude 57°39'40" N., longitude 154°12'20" W.;

Thence south approximately eight miles to latitude 57°32'30"N.;

Thence west approximately twelve and one-half miles to the confluence of the north shore of Sturgeon River with the east shore of Shelikof Strait;

Thence northeasterly following the easterly shore of Shelikof Strait to the place of beginning, containing approximately 35,200 acres.

None of the above-described lands, except a strip one mile in   along the shore line, shall be subject to settlement, location, sale, or other disposition under any of the public-land laws applicable to  , or to classification arid lease under the provisions of the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for the leasing of public lands in   for fur farming, and for other purposes", 44 Stat. 821,  , title  , secs. 360-361, or the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for the protection, development, and utilization of the public lands in   by establishing an adequate system for grazing livestock thereon", 44 Stat.  ,  , title  , secs. 471-471o:

Provided, however

, That as to the said strip of land one statute mile in   bordering on the shore lines, primary jurisdiction thereover shall remain in  , and its reservation and use as a part of   shall be without interference with the use and disposition thereof pursuant to the public-land laws applicable to  :

Provided further

, That any lands within the described areas that are otherwise withdrawn or reserved shall be affected by this order only so far as may be consistent with the uses and purposes for which such prior withdrawal or reservation was made:

And provided further

, That upon the termination of any private right to or appropriation of any public lands within the exterior limits of the areas included in this reservation, or upon the revocation of prior withdrawals unless expressly otherwise provided in the order of revocation, the lands involved shall become a part of the refuge.

The provisions of this order shall not prohibit or limit the hunting or taking of brown bears or other game animals or game birds or the trapping of fur animals in accordance with the provisions of the said Alaska Game Law, as amended, and as may be permitted by regulations of the Secretary of the   prescribed and issued pursuant thereto.

So far as any of the above-described lands are affected thereby, the reservation made by this order shall supersede the temporary withdrawal for classification and other purposes made by Executive Order No. 8344 of  .

Nothing in this order shall be construed to preclude the exercise of, or to limit, the authority of the Secretary of the   under the provisions of section 2 of the act of  ,  , 49 Stat.  , or of other existing laws, to designate   reservations on the areas hereby reserved at such time or times as it may become necessary or desirable to do so. The designation of any such   reservation by the Secretary of the   shall effect the removal of the lands included therein from the refuge established hereby.

This reservation shall be known as  .

 

 ,

 .
