Executive Order  —Instruction of Citizens of the American Republics at Educational Institutions and   and Administered by the Government of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , entitled "An act to authorize the President to permit citizens of the   republics to receive instruction at professional educational institutions and schools maintained and administered by   or by departments or agencies thereof" (52 Stat.  ), it is ordered as follows:

1. Subject to the provisions and requirements of this  , appropriate administrative regulations shall be drafted by each executive department or agency of the Government which maintains and administers educational institutions and schools coming within the scope of the legislation. Such regulations shall carefully observe the limitations imposed by the said act of  , and shall in each case include:

(a) A list of the institutions and courses in the department or agency concerned in which instruction is available under the terms of the legislation.

(b) A statement of the maximum number of students of the other   republics who may be accommodated in each such institution or course at any one time.

(c) A statement of the qualifications to be required of students of the other   republics for admission, including examinations, if any, to be passed.

(d) Provisions to safeguard information that may be vital to the national defense or other interests of  .

2. Applications for citizens of the other   republics to receive the instruction contemplated by the said act of  , shall be made formally through diplomatic channels to the Secretary of   by the foreign governments concerned.

3. The Secretary of   shall refer the applications to the proper department or agency of the Government for advice as to what reply should be made to the application.

4. In order to enable the Secretary of   to reply to inquiries received from the governments of the other   republics,   shall be promptly supplied with copies of the regulations drafted by the other departments and agencies of the Government and of subsequent amendments thereto.

5. Upon receipt of a reply from another department or agency of the Government, as contemplated by paragraph No. 3 of this  , in which it is recommended that an application be granted, the Secretary of   shall notify the government of the   republic concerned, through diplomatic channels, that permission to receive the instruction requested in the application is granted, provided the applicant complies with the terms of this   and with the terms of the administrative regulations of the department or agency concerned.

6. In granting permission to citizens of the other   republics to receive instruction under the provisions of the said act of  , the Secretary of   shall limit the number of such permissions so that not more than one citizen of any one   republic shall receive instruction at the same time in   and not more than one in  ; and he shall not grant any such permission to a citizen of any of the   republics to receive instruction in any institution or school if the issuance of such permission will curtail the admission of citizens of   eligible to receive instruction therein.

 

 ,

 .
