Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to coordinate and centralize the war policies and actions of the Government relating to petroleum with a view toward providing adequate supplies of petroleum for the successful prosecution of the war and for other essential purposes, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Whenever used in this Order:

a. The term "petroleum" means petroleum, petroleum products, and associated hydrocarbons, including but not limited to natural gas, except that natural gas which has entered into gas transmission lines from field gathering lines shall not be so included.

b. The term "petroleum industry" means the production, refining, treating, storage, shipment, receipt, or distribution within  , its territories and possessions, of petroleum, exclusive of: (1) the transportation of petroleum, (2) the transmission of natural gas from the point of its entry into gas transmission lines from field gathering lines, and (3) the distribution of natural gas.

c. The term "transportation" means transportation as defined in   Code, Title 49, section 1 (3) (a), and in Executive Orders No.   and No.  .

2. There is established  , at the head of which shall be a Petroleum Administrator who shall be directly responsible to the President. The Secretary of the   shall serve ex officio as  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator.

3. The Administrator shall:(a) Subject to the provisions of this  , establish basic policies and formulate plans and programs to assure for the prosecution of the war the conservation and most effective development and utilization of petroleum in   and its territories and possessions, issue necessary policy and operating directives to parties engaged in the petroleum industry, and appoint such general, regional, local, or functional petroleum industry committees or councils as the Administrator finds necessary: Provided, that no directive issued hereunder shall conflict with any direction which may be issued by the Chairman of   pursuant to paragraph 1 of Executive Order No. 9125 of April 7,  .

(b)  , as far as practicable, as the liaison and channel of communication between the units of the petroleum industry and the several departments and agencies of   on matters directly involving the functions and duties of the Administrator.

(c) (1) Obtain from   and the  ,  ,   and  , the several divisions and branches of  , and such other Federal departments and agencies as may be appropriate, estimates of the amounts of petroleum which will be required from  , its territories and possessions, to meet direct and indirect military, and essential industrial and civilian requirements; and compile and analyze such estimates and submit them to   with recommendations for the allocation of petroleum to meet such requirements.

(2) Prepare and recommend to   estimates of the quantities and kinds of material needed by the petroleum industry to produce, refine, store, distribute (excluding transportation), or otherwise make available the amount of petroleum recommended by the Administrator for allocation by  .

(d) Subject to the direction of the Chairman of  , exercise the powers, authority, and the discretion conferred upon the Chairman by paragraph 1 of Executive Order No. 9125 of April 7,  , by issuing, and taking appropriate action to enforce, such orders or directives to the petroleum industry as the Administrator may deem necessary, in order to:

(1) Provide adequate supplies of petroleum for military, or other essential uses; or

(2) Effect the proper distribution of such amounts of materials as the Chairman of   may allot for the use of the petroleum industry.

(e) Compile data and make continuing surveys with respect to the effect of the prices charged for petroleum upon the efficient wartime operations of the petroleum industry and the maintenance of adequate supplies of petroleum for war and essential industrial and civilian uses. On the basis of such surveys, the   shall consult with and recommend to  , such upward or downward adjustments in the schedule of prices charged for petroleum as will, in the judgment of  , assure the efficient wartime operation of the petroleum industry and the maintenance of adequate supplies of petroleum for war, and essential industrial and civilian uses. In order to enable   to make appropriate recommendations, the Price Administrator shall advise with the   prior to the establishment or alteration by   of any schedule of prices to be charged for petroleum.

(f) Be advised of all plans or proposals which deal with the civilian rationing of petroleum and consult with rationing authorities in the development of such plans or proposals; and, in those instances where rationing is for the purpose of maintaining adequate supplies of petroleum for war and essential industrial and civilian requirements, determine, after advising with  , the areas and the times within which such rationing should be effective and the amount of petroleum available for such purpose.

(g) Consult with   with respect to the assignment of tankers and the movement of petroleum, and, subject to the requirements of   and the  , recommend allocations as between units of the petroleum industry of available tankers under the control of  .

(h) Designate the quantity and kind of petroleum to be shipped and received by those engaged in the petroleum industry, and certify such designations to   for appropriate action in providing the necessary transportation.

(i) Review all plans or proposals for the construction, extension, enlargement or interconnection of petroleum pipe lines; subject to the over-all responsibilities of  , approve such plans or proposals as are, in his judgment, necessary to provide adequate supplies of petroleum for war and other essential uses and recommend to   programs covering the amounts and kinds of materials needed for such pipe lines. The Administrator shall direct the physical operation of petroleum pipe lines to the extent of prescribing the quantity and kind of petroleum to be transported by and the direction of flow through such pipe lines: Provided, that nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the functions and authority of   under Executive Order No.   of  , with respect to the provision of necessary additional transportation facilities and equipment, or to coordinate and direct domestic traffic movements.

(j) Advise the several   departments and agencies concerned with the construction, enlargement, or additional interconnection of any natural gas transmission line as to the supply and availability of natural gas at the proposed sources of production whenever such construction, enlargement, or interconnection will result in substantially altering the rate of production at such sources.

(k) Perform the duties and responsibilities with relation to petroleum and the facilities used in the petroleum industry imposed by Executive Order No. 9165 of  , upon  .

(l) Certify to the various   regulatory bodies having jurisdiction with respect to the production of petroleum, the amounts and kinds of petroleum which should be produced in their respective  , and collaborate with such   regulatory bodies in the coordination of their activities with the programs and policies of the Administrator.

(m) Keep the President informed with respect to the progress made in carrying out this   and perform such related duties as the President may from time to time assign or delegate to him.

4. The Administrator shall collaborate with the appropriate Federal departments and agencies authorized to determine plans and policies with respect to foreign petroleum activities. The Administrator shall, in conformity with such plans and policies, issue directives concerning the physical operations of their foreign petroleum facilities to units of the   petroleum industry which directly or indirectly engage in such operations in foreign countries. The Administrator shall be the channel of communication on foreign petroleum matters between the   departments and agencies and such units of the   petroleum industry.

5. The Administrator shall perform the functions with respect to rubber conferred upon   by Executive Order No.   of  , subject to such directives as the Rubber Director may issue pursuant to such  . Nothing in this   shall apply to or in any way limit the functions and authority, or the manner of executing the same, of the Chairman of   or the Rubber Director in the exercise of control over and administration of the  's rubber program pursuant to said Executive Order No.  , or the functions and authority of any department, establishment, or agency in the execution of such aspects of the rubber program in such manner and for such period of time as the Rubber Director may direct pursuant to said Executive Order.

6. Subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by   and the   with respect to their own requirements, the several   departments and agencies shall supply such information and data as the Administrator may require in performing his functions and shall advise with the Administrator before undertaking any action which might affect the continuous, ready availability of petroleum for military and essential industrial and civilian needs. In order to assist him in carrying out the purposes of this  , the Administrator may establish or designate committees or groups of advisers, representing two or more departments or agencies of  , or  . The Administrator shall meet at regular and special intervals with representatives of the various Federal departments and agencies having continuing functions directly related to petroleum or the petroleum industry.

7. The Administrator may appoint, with the approval of the President, a Deputy Administrator, who shall report directly to the Administrator, and to whom he may delegate any and all power, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this  . The Deputy Administrator shall serve as Acting Administrator in the absence of the Administrator. The Administrator, within the limits of such funds as may be allocated or appropriated for the purpose, may employ necessary personnel and make provision for necessary supplies, facilities, travel, and services.

8.  , later changed to  , established by the letter of the President dated  , is abolished, and its personnel, records, property, and funds are transferred to  , effective   from the date of this Order. All orders, directives, agreements, recommendations, and other documents issued or entered into under the functions, duties, and authorities of   shall remain in force as the responsibility of the Administrator until such time as he may revoke, alter, or otherwise change such documents under provisions of this Executive Order.

9. Nothing in this   shall be deemed to limit in any way the authority of   and   to initiate or carry out directly, without review or approval by the Administrator, any action relating to petroleum or the petroleum industry which either   deems to be a matter of military necessity or expediency and which arises in such areas and is of such military urgency as to require special or secret disposition; or to limit in any way the functions and authority of the Secretary of  , under the direction of the President, in the formation of the foreign policy and the conduct of the foreign relations of this Government; or to limit in any way the statutory powers of   with respect to rates, charges, statistics, accounts, car service (including emergency service powers), or operating authority; or to limit in any way the exercise of the authority of   or the performance of its functions and authority under the Natural Gas Act (52 Stat. 821) as amended; or to limit the functions and authority of   under the Act of   (56 Stat. 463); or to limit in any way the powers of the Price Administrator under the Emergency Price Control Act (56 Stat. 23) and as amended by  , 77th  , Second Session.

10. Any provisions of pertinent   in conflict with the provisions of this   are hereby superseded: Provided, that nothing herein shall be deemed in any way to limit the functions and authority of the Chairman of   under Executive Orders No.   of  , No. 9040 of  , No. 9125 of April 7,  , and No.   of  ; or to limit in any way the functions and authority of   under Executive Order No. 8202 of  ; or to limit in any way the functions, duties, or authority of   with respect to the operation, control, purchase, requisition, charter, repair, use, or insurance of any vessel or cargo; or to limit the functions and authority of   under Executive Orders No. 8839 of  , as amended, No. 8900 of  , No. 8926 of  , No. 8942 of  , and No. 9128 of  ; or to limit the functions and authority of   under Executive Order No. 8926 of  .

 

 ,

 .
