Executive Order 8985—Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , and particularly by section 303, Title III of the Act of  , Public Law 354, 77th  , 1st session, and deeming that the public safety demands it, I hereby order as follows:

1. There is hereby established  , at the head of which shall be a Director of Censorship. The Director of Censorship shall cause to be censored, in his absolute discretion, communications by mail, cable, radio, or other means of transmission passing between   and any foreign country or which may be carried by any vessel or other means of transportation touching at any port, place, or Territory of   and bound to or from any foreign country, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the President shall from time to time prescribe. The establishment of rules and regulations in addition to the provisions of this   shall not be a condition to the exercise of the powers herein granted or the censorship by this   directed. The scope of this   shall include all foreign countries except such as may hereafter be expressly excluded by regulation.

2. There is hereby created a  , which shall consist of the Vice President of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of War, the Attorney General,  , the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Director of  . The Postmaster General shall act as Chairman of  .   shall advise the Director of Censorship with respect to policy and the coordination and integration of the censorship herein directed.

3. The Director of Censorship shall establish  , which shall consist of representatives of such departments and agencies of the Government as the Director shall specify. Each representative shall be designated by the head of the department or agency which he represents.   shall, under the supervision of the Director perform such duties with respect to operations as the Director shall determine.

4. The Director of Censorship is authorized to take all such measures as may be necessary or expedient to administer the powers hereby conferred, and, in addition to the utilization of existing personnel of any department or agency available therefor, to employ, or authorize the employment of, such additional personnel as he may deem requisite.

5. As used in this   the term " " shall be construed to include the Territories and possessions of  , including  .

 

 ,

 .
