Executive Order 8979—Establishing  
 
 

ALASKA

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered that, for the purpose of protecting the natural breeding and feeding range of the giant Kenai moose on the Kenai Peninsula,  , which in this area presents a unique wildlife feature and an unusual opportunity for the study in its natural environment of the practical management of a big game species that has considerable local economic value, all of the hereinafter-described areas of land and water of   lying on the northwest portion of the said Kenai Peninsula, be, and they are hereby, subject to valid existing rights, withdrawn and reserved for the use of   and   as a refuge and breeding ground for moose for carrying out the purposes of the Alaska Game Law of  , 43 Stat. 739,  , title  , secs. 192-211, as amended:

 

Beginning at the point of intersection of the west boundary of   with the line of mean high tide on the south shore of Chickaloon Bay, in   Arm of Cook Inlet, in latitude 60°53' N., and longitude 150° W.;

Thence from said initial point,

  with the meanders of the line of mean high tide, on the south shore of Chickaloon Bay to Point Possession;

Thence southwesterly with the meanders of the line of mean high tide on the east shore of   to the Kasilof River;

Thence southeasterly, upstream along the right bank of the Kasilof River to the meander corner on the south boundary of  . 33, T. 3 N.,   11 W., Seward meridian;

Thence west, 4.09 chains, to meander corner on south boundary of  .  ,  ;

Thence southwesterly, along the crest of the watershed, to the divide between the waters flowing into   and the waters flowing into Cook Inlet and Kachemak Bay;

Thence southeasterly, along said divide to the confluence of the Fox River and the principal stream flowing from Dlnglestadt  ;

Thence southeasterly, up said stream and across   to the crest of Kenai Mountains;

Thence northeasterly, along the crest of Kenai Mountains to the west boundary of   at a point three miles southeasterly from the head of  ;

Thence northerly, along the west boundary of   to the place of beginning.

The area described, Including both public and non-publlc lands, aggregates 2,000,000 acres.

None of the above-described lands excepting  . 5 N., Rs. 8,  ,  , and 11 W., and also excepting a strip six miles in   along the shore of  , extending from a point six miles east of   to the point on   intersected by said six-mile strip, shall be subject to settlement, location, sale, or entry, or other disposition (except for fish trap sites) under any of the public-land laws applicable to  , or to classification and lease under the provisions of the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for the leasing of public lands in   for fur farming, and for other purposes", 44 Stat. 821,  , title  , secs. 360-361, or the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for the protection, development, and utilization of the public lands in   by establishing an adequate system for grazing livestock thereon", 44 Stat.  ,  , title  , secs. 471-471o:

Provided, however

, That as to the foregoing excepted lands, primary jurisdiction thereover shall remain in   and their reservation and use as a part of the national moose range shall be without interference with the use and disposition thereof pursuant to the public-land laws applicable to  :

Provided further

, That the lands in the said excepted areas shall be classified by  ,  , and those lands classified as not suitable for settlement shall no longer be available for that purpose:

Provided further

, That the reservation for the national moose range shall not operate to prevent the construction and operation of a highway to connect the area open to settlement with   road by the most practicable route:

Provided further

, That any lands within the described area that are otherwise withdrawn or reserved shall be affected by this order only so far as may be consistent with the uses and purposes for which such prior withdrawal or reservation was made.

The provisions of this order shall not prohibit the hunting or taking of moose and other game animals and game birds or the trapping of fur animals In accordance with the provisions of the said Alaska Game Law, as amended, and as may be permitted by regulations of the Secretary of the   prescribed and issued pursuant thereto.

This reservation shall be known as  .

 

 ,

 .
