Executive Order 9406—Transfer of Functions With Respect to Necessity Certificates From the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   to the Chairman of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , and as President of  , and in order to enable the Chairman of   more effectively to carry out his responsibilities with respect to the regulation of production and supply of materials, articles, and equipment, and services required for the national defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, the functions, powers, and duties of the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   with respect to the certification, pursuant to section 124 (f) of  , of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation or acquisition of facilities necessary in   during the emergency period, and with respect to prescribing from time to time with the approval of the President regulations governing such certification, are transferred to the Chairman of  .

2. (a) The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   shall act upon

(1) all applications for   filed before  , and

(2) applications for   filed between and including   and   describing facilities the beginning of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation or the date of acquisition of which was prior to  .

When the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   have made final determination upon all applications specified in this subsection, their functions, powers and duties to issue   shall cease.

(b) The Chairman of   shall act upon

(1) applications for   filed after   describing facilities the beginning of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation or the date of acquisition of which was prior to  . Such applications for   filed after the effective date of this order shall be filed with  .

(2) applications for   filed on and after   and pending   with the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   which describe facilities the construction, reconstruction, erection or installation of which has not begun or which have not been acquired, and

(3) applications for   filed after   which describe facilities the construction, reconstruction, erection, or installation of which has not begun or which have not been acquired.

3. (a) The regulations of the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   in effect prior to   shall govern the issuance of   for all applications for   describing facilities the beginning of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation or the date of acquisition of which was prior to  .

(b) In acting upon applications for   filed on and after   describing facilities the construction, reconstruction, erection or installation of which was not begun or which were not acquired prior to  ,   shall not be issued unless the Chairman of   has determined prior to the beginning of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or the date of acquisition of the facilities (1) that the facilities to be constructed or acquired are clearly necessary for the war effort, and (2) that it is to the advantage of the Government that such additional facilities be privately financed.

4. In the exercise of the functions, powers and duties transferred by this order, the Chairman of   may consult   and   with regard to facilities required primarily for military or naval use, and other departments and agencies with regard to facilities required primarily for uses within their respective  .

5. Such civilian personnel, property, and records used primarily in the administration of the functions, powers and duties transferred by this order, and so much of the unexpended balance of appropriations, allocations and funds available to   and   for the said purposes as the Director of   shall determine, shall be transferred to the Chairman of   on such date or dates as the Director of   shall determine, for use in connection with the exercise of the functions, powers and duties so transferred.

 

 ,

 .
