Executive Order  —Ordering Certain Units and Members of   of   Into   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority conferred upon me by Public Resolution No. 96, 76th  , approved  , and the National Defense Act of  , as amended (39 Stat. 166), and as Commander-in-Chief of the   and   of  , I hereby order into the active military service of  , effective on the dates respectively indicated below, the following units and members of   of   to serve in the active military service of   for a period of  , unless sooner relieved:

UNITS

Effective  , all   recognized elements of:

Hq. & Hq. Battery,  

200th Coast Artillery (AA)

204th Coast Artillery (AA)

206th Coast Artillery (AA)

208th Coast Artillery (AA)

215th Coast Artillery (AA)

216th Coast Artillery (AA)

260th Coast Artillery (AA)

265th Coast Artillery (HD)

102d   (AA)

  (AA)

106th Coast Artillery Battalion (AA)

142d  

184th Field Artillery

102d Cavalry

201st Infantry, less 3d Battalion

  Anti-tank Battalion

   

120th  Effective  , all   recognized elements of:

Hq. & Hq. Battery,    

141st Field Artillery

166th Field Artillery

190th Field Artillery

263d Coast Artillery (HD)

369th Coast Artillery (AA)

 

135th Medical Regiment

102d Anti-tank  101st Signal Battalion

 Effective  , all   recognized elements of  .

Effective  , all   recognized elements of:

38th  

MEMBERS

All members, both active and inactive, of the units listed above.

All persons so ordered into the active military service of   are, from the effective dates indicated above, relieved from duty in   of their respective States so long as they shall remain in the active military service of  , and during such time shall be subject to such laws and regulations for the government of the Army of   as may be applicable to members of the   whose permanent retention in the active military service is not contemplated by law.

  officers and warrant officers appointed in   of   and commissioned or holding warrants in  , and affected by this  , are hereby ordered to active duty under such appointments and commissions or warrants.

Each officer and warrant officer of  , appointed In  , who shall have been Federally recognized or examined and found qualified for Federal recognition, and shall have been assigned to a unit ordered to active duty under this   prior to the effective date of induction of such unit, who does not hold an appointment in   of   in the same grade and arm or service in which he has been most recently   recognized or has been most recently examined and found qualified for Federal recognition, is hereby tendered appointment in   of   in the same grade and arm or service in which he shall have been most recently   recognized or examined and found qualified for Federal recognition.

Each warrant officer and enlisted man of  , assigned to a unit ordered to active duty under this  , who shall have been examined and found qualified for appointment as an officer in   of  , under the provisions of Section 111, National Defense Act, as amended, and who shall not have been appointed in   of   in the grade for which examined and found qualified prior to the effective date of induction of his unit, is hereby tendered appointment in   of   and commission in  , in the same grade and arm or service for which he shall have been so examined and found qualified.

Each warrant officer and enlisted man of   who holds appointment as an officer in   of   and a commission in  , or who is tendered such appointment and commission by the terms of this  , and who is assigned to a unit ordered to active duty under this   prior to the effective date of induction of such unit, is hereby ordered to active military service as a commissioned officer of   under that appointment and commission.

 

 ,

 .
