Executive Order 9070—Consolidating  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , approved   (Public Law 354, 77th  ), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The following agencies, functions, duties, and powers are consolidated into a   and shall be administered as hereinafter provided under the direction and supervision of a  

(a)   and its functions, powers, and duties, including those of the Administrator thereof.

(b) All functions, powers, and duties of   and of its members.

(c)   and the functions, powers, and duties of its  .

(d)   and the functions, powers, and duties of its  .

(e)   and its functions, powers, and duties, including those of the Administrator thereof.

(f) All functions, powers, and duties relating to defense housing of (1)   under the act of  , entitled "An Act to expedite the provision of housing in connection with national defense, and for other purposes," as amended, and under acts making appropriations to carry out the purposes of said act, (2)   and   with respect to housing units for persons (with families) engaged in national defense activities (except housing units located on military or naval reservations, posts, or bases) under Title IV of the Naval Appropriation Act for  , and (3) any agencies heretofore designated (including   and  ) to provide temporary shelter in defense areas under  ,  , and  ,  , and  ,  .

(g) All functions, powers, and duties of   relating to such housing projects as such Administration determines are for families not deriving their principal income from operating or working upon a farm.

(h)   and its functions, powers, and duties, including those of its officers and  .

(i) All functions, powers, and duties of  ,  , and the head of any department or other agency relating to the administration or supervision of the agencies, functions, powers, and duties transferred hereunder.

(j) All functions, powers, and duties of   established by Executive Order No. 8632 of  , and of   Provided, That such Division and such Coordinator shall continue to exercise such functions, powers, and duties until the appointment or designation of  .

(k) All powers, rights, privileges, duties, and functions transferred to   by Executive Order No. 8186 of  :

Provided, That with respect to any functions, powers, and duties enumerated in sub-paragraphs (f) and (g) above, any agency now engaged in the construction or management of any project shall continue such activities on behalf of   until such time as   shall determine that it is expedient for  , herein provided for, to discharge such functions, powers, and duties with respect to such project through its own facilities.

2.   shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  , and shall receive a salary of $12,000 a year unless the   shall otherwise provide. Pending such appointment, an existing officer of the Government designated by the President shall act as  .

3. There shall be three main constituent units in  . Each such unit shall be administered by a commissioner acting under the direction and supervision of  . The unit administering   and its functions, powers, and duties shall be known as  , and   shall serve as   Commissioner. The unit administering the functions, powers, and duties of   and its members shall be known as  , and the Chairman of   shall serve as   Commissioner.   and its functions, powers, and duties shall be administered as  , one of the main constituent units, and   shall serve as   Commissioner. The agencies, functions, powers, and duties enumerated in sub-paragraphs (c), (d), and (k) of paragraph 1 shall be administered in  , and those enumerated in subparagraphs (f) and (g) shall be administered in  . The agency, functions, powers, and duties enumerated in sub-paragraph (h) of paragraph 1 shall also be administered by   Commissioner. The Administrator of   may centralize in the office of   such budget, personnel, legal, procurement, research, planning, or other administrative services or functions common to the said constituent units as he may determine.

4. The capital stock of   shall be transferred from   to  , and the Federal' Loan Administrator and   shall take all necessary action to effectuate such transfer and carry out the purposes hereof.

5.   is hereby abolished, and all of its assets, contracts, property (including office equipment and records), and unexpended balances of funds available for its use are hereby transferred to  .

6. All assets, contracts, and property (including office equipment and records) of any agency hereby consolidated, and all assets, contracts, and property (including office equipment and records) which other agencies, including departments, have been using primarily in the administration of any function, power, or duty hereby consolidated or transferred, are hereby transferred, respectively, with such agency, function, power, or duty.

7. Except as provided in paragraph 8 hereof, (1) all personnel of any agency hereby consolidated, and (2) all personnel of other agencies, including departments, who have been engaged primarily in the administration of any function, power, or duty hereby consolidated or transferred and who within   after the appointment or designation of   are jointly certified for transfer by said Administrator and the head of the department or agency to which such personnel is attached, shall be transferred, respectively, with such agency, functions, power, or duty; but any personnel transferred with functions, powers, or duties pursuant to this paragraph who are found by   to be in excess of the personnel necessary for the administration of such functions, powers, and duties shall be retransfered under existing law to other positions in the   or separated from the service.

8. The following personnel are not transferred hereunder:(1) the   and Officers of  , (2) the members of   other than the Chairman, (3) the Directors of  , and (4) the Trustees of  . The offices of the foregoing personnel excepted from transfer by this paragraph (except in the case of  ) are hereby vacated for the duration of this order: Provided, That the offices of the members of   shall not be vacated until   from the date of this order. The personnel of   and of   are not transferred hereunder, except that  , within   after his appointment or designation, may take over such of this personnel as are needed. During such period, all personnel of such   and of such   may be retained by them in connection with the winding up of their affairs.

9. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds (not otherwise transferred hereunder) available for the use of any agency in the exercise of any function, power, or duty consolidated by this  , or for the use of the head of any department or agency in the exercise of any such function, power, or duty, as the Director of   shall determine (with the approval of the President), shall be transferred, respectively, to   or the main constituent unit therein concerned, for its use in connection with the exercise of the functions, powers, or duties, respectively, to be administered by it hereunder. In determining the amount to be transferred, the Director of   may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds prior to transfer.

10. All housing now owned by   and located on a military or naval reservation, post, or base is hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the War or  , respectively, having jurisdiction of such reservation, post, or base: Provided, That with respect to all housing developed by the War or   under Title II of Public 671, approved  ,   take all necessary steps to transfer such jurisdiction and carry out the purpose hereof, including the transfer of title to   and including repayment (out of any funds available therefor) of the cost of such housing for reimbursement of the Bond Account from which funds were transferred to pay such costs.

11. The Director of   shall allocate to  , from appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds available for the administrative expenses of   and   (relating to the administration of the agencies and functions transferred therefrom hereunder) and of the agencies and functions, powers, and duties consolidated hereunder, such sums, and in such proportions, as he may find necessary for the administrative expenses of  . None of the agencies established or consolidated hereunder shall incur any obligations for administrative expenses except pursuant to appropriations, allocations, or other authorizations of funds specifically available now or hereafter for administrative expenses.

12.   may appoint necessary personnel and make necessary expenditures to carry out the functions, powers, and duties of  . The Administrator and the Commissioners hereunder may delegate their respective functions, powers, and duties to such agencies, officials, or personnel as they may designate, respectively. Until the appointment or designation of a  , the   respectively shall exercise such of the functions, powers, and duties of   as relate to the agencies, functions, powers, and duties to be administered by such Commissioners respectively.

13. Nothing herein shall impair or affect any outstanding obligations or contracts of any agency consolidated hereunder or of   (including its pledge of faith to the payment of all   contributions now or hereafter contracted for pursuant to  , as amended), or of any   created under the National Housing Act.

14. All orders, rules, regulations, permits, or other privileges made, issued, or granted by or in respect of any agency, function, power, or duty consolidated hereunder shall continue in effect to the same extent as if such consolidation had not occurred until modified, superseded, or repealed, except that the regulations of  , relating to defense housing coordination shall hereby be revoked upon the appointment or designation of  .

15. All unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds transferred under this   shall be used only for the respective purposes and in the administration of the respective functions for which such funds were made available.

16. Transfers of available funds under this   shall include funds available for  .

17. This   shall become effective as of the date hereof and shall be in force and effect so long as Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , remains in force.

 

 ,

 .
