Executive Order 7298—Regulations Governing the Preparation, Presentation, Filing, and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by  , approved   (49 Stat. 500), and as President of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the preparation, presentation, filing, and distribution of Executive orders and proclamations:

1. Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be prepared in accordance with the following requirements:

(a) A suitable title for the order or proclamation shall be provided.

(b) The authority under which the order or proclamation is promulgated shall be cited in the body thereof.

(c) Punctuation, capitalization, orthography, and other matters of style shall conform to the most recent edition of the Style Manual of the United States Government Printing Office.

(d) The spelling of geographic names shall conform to the most recent official decisions made pursuant to Executive Orders No. 27-A, of  , No. 399, of  , and No.  , of  .

(e) Descriptions of tracts of lands shall conform, so far as practicable, with the most recent edition of  ", published by  .

(f) Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be typewritten on paper approximately 8 by 12½ inches, shall have a left-hand margin of approximately 2 inches and a right-hand margin of approximately 1 inch, and shall be doublespaced, except that quotations, tabulations, or descriptions of land may be singlespaced.

2. The proposed Executive order or proclamation shall first be submitted to the Director of  . If the Director of   approves it, he shall transmit it to the Attorney General for his consideration as to both form and legality. If the Attorney General approves it, he shall transmit it to the Director of  ,  . If it conforms to the requirements of paragraph 1 hereof, the Director of   shall transmit it and three copies thereof to the President. If it is disapproved by the Director of   or the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by the statement of the reasons for such disapproval.

3. If the order or proclamation is signed by the President, the original and two copies thereof shall be forwarded to the Director of   for appropriate action in conformity with the provisions of  :

Provided

, however, That the seal of   shall be affixed to the originals of all proclamations prior to such forwarding.   shall cause to be placed upon the copies of all Executive orders and proclamations the following notation, to be signed by the Director or by some person authorized by him: "Certified to be a true copy of the original."   shall number and shall supervise the promulgation, publication, and distribution of all Executive orders and proclamations.

4.   shall cause a limited number of copies of the Executive orders and proclamations not required or authorized to be filed and published under the provisions of   to be made available in slip form to the appropriate agencies of the Government.

5.   shall file in   the originals of all Executive orders and proclamations.

6. The signed originals and copies of all Executive orders and proclamations heretofore promulgated and now in the custody of   shall be transferred to  .

7. Nothing in this order shall be construed to apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, and other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President.

8. This order shall become effective on  , and shall thereupon supersede Executive Order No.  , of  .

 

 ,

 .
