Executive Order 9300—Establishing   Activity on the Part of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of  , Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (Public Law 354, 77th  ), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established, within the  , an   whose composition, powers, functions, and responsibilities are defined herein.

2. The   shall consist of five members appointed by the President from among the officers or employees of the departments, independent establishments, and agencies of  . The   shall choose its own officers.

3. The   shall serve as an advisory and coordinating agency in all matters pertaining to the investigation and disposition of complaints of subversive activity on the part of employees of the executive branch of   excepting those who are on conditional appointment subject to the results of an investigation which is still pending, and shall initiate such measures as are best suited in its judgment to assure fair and prompt disposition of complaints and to protect the interests of  : Provided, however, that the   shall take no action concerning employees of   or   except upon request from the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of War, respectively.

4. The departments, independent establishments, and agencies of the   shall refer all complaints within the purview of paragraph 3 of this  , hereinafter referred to as complaints, together with all available information pertaining thereto, to   in  , for information or investigation.

5. The   shall consider general classes of complaints, or particular complaints, upon request of  , and shall recommend to the   appropriate policies to govern the investigation of such complaints.

6. The   shall receive all completed investigative reports made by  , on complaints and shall advise the departments, independent establishments, and agencies concerning the procedures for determining action thereon.

7. The departments, independent establishments, and agencies of the executive branch of the   are directed to report to the  , within a reasonable period of time, the procedures followed and action taken on all cases referred by  . The Committee in turn shall report forthwith to   the action taken by the employing department, independent establishment, or agency.

8. Upon request from an employing department, independent establishment, or agency, the   may review the record in any case within the purview of paragraph 3 of this   and return an advisory opinion concerning the disposition of the case.

9. Whenever the requirements of internal security appear to the   to have been insufficiently considered in connection with the disposition of an investigative report, the   may review the case upon its own motion and transmit its recommendation to the employing department, independent establishment, or agency.

10. In time of war or other national emergency, upon a finding that internal security will be endangered by recourse to the procedures authorized elsewhere in this  , the   may recommend to the President such special action in exceptional cases as internal security may require.

11. Nothing contained in this   shall be construed to limit the authority of any department, independent establishment, or agency to suspend any employee as provided by law, to bar an immediate arrest and the transfer to court jurisdiction of any case in which   finds that such action is warranted, or to restrict the powers and responsibilities of   in connection with its review of disciplinary or administrative action against an employee.

12.   is hereby directed to furnish such clerical, stenographic, and other assistance and supplies as may be necessary to the operation of the  . Members of the   shall serve without compensation in such capacity.

 

 ,

 .
