Executive  —Directing the Secretary of the   to Take Action Necessary to Protect Vessels, Harbors,  , and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Secretary of the   shall be primarily responsible for, and shall take such steps, institute such measures, and issue such regulations and orders as shall be necessary for, the safeguarding against destruction, loss or injury from sabotage or other subversive acts, accident, or other causes of a similar nature, of vessels, harbors, ports, and waterfront facilities in   and in  , the Territory of  ,  , and the.  , except such waterfront facilities as may be directly operated by  . Executive  . 8972 of  , authorizing the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   to protect certain national-defense material, premises, and utilities from injury or destruction, is modified accordingly.

2. All agencies and authorities of   shall conform to all regulations and orders Issued by the Secretary of the   pursuant to Section 1 hereof, and shall give such assistance and support to the Secretary of the   as their available facilities and personnel will permit.

3. All state and local authorities and all persons are urged to assist and support the Secretary of the   at all times in the enforcement of this order, and to conform to all regulations issued hereunder.

4. Except as provided by. Section 1 hereof, nothing herein contained shall be construed as relieving any agency or authority of   from the performance of any duties now imposed by law upon it; and nothing herein shall limit or modify the duty and responsibility of  , with respect to the investigation of alleged acts of sabotage, espionage, or other types of subversive activities, or require it to furnish facilities or personnel under Section 2 of this order.

5. The Secretary of the   may delegate to such officers under his direction as he may deem necessary any of the powers and duties conferred upon him by any of the provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 .
