Executive Order 7024-B—Order No. 3 Under Act of  
 
 

Whereas

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Act of   entitled "An Act to regulate   in petroleum and its products by prohibiting the shipment in such commerce of petroleum and its products produced in violation of   law, and for other purposes", Public No.  , 74th  , approved  , and the Executive Order of the President of  , No.   ( ), I am authorized to designate an agency to execute the powers and functions vested in me by the Act of   and Executive Order hereinbefore mentioned; and

Whereas

, I find that it is necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of the provisions of said Act to establish an administrative and investigative agency in connection with tenders presented to  . 1;

Now, Therefore

, it is ordered:

Article I

I hereby create and designate an   to be known as  . 1", hereinafter designated as the "Agency", which shall exercise all duties and functions pertaining or incidental to investigations provided for by my Order No. 1 approved and promulgated  .

Article II

Hereafter all applications for tenders shall be referred by  " to the "Agency" for investigation and report. Representatives of the "Agency" are authorized to appear before  " to present evidence and examine witnesses whenever it appears necessary or advisable.

Article III

The "Agency" or its representatives are hereby authorized and empowered to exercise all of the functions, powers, and duties set forth in paragraph 2, Regulation IV, and in Regulations X and XI of my Order No. 1 approved and promulgated  .

Representatives of the "Agency" shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations.

Nothing contained in this regulation shall be construed to impair or limit the functions, duties and powers delegated to  " under the aforesaid regulations in my Order No. 1 approved and promulgated  .

Article IV

Except as hereinbefore provided all previous orders approved and promulgated by me pursuant to the Act and Executive Order hereinbefore mentioned shallremain in full force and effect.

Article V

If any provision of this   or any clause, sentence or part hereof is held unauthorized or invalid for any reason, or the application thereof to any person, circumstance, commodity or class of transactions with respect to any commodity be held unauthorized or invalid for any reason, the validity of the remainder of this   and the application of such provisions to other persons, circumstances, commodities and classes of transactions shall not be affected thereby.

Approved, prescribed and promulgated  .

 

Secretary of the Interior

,

Approved:

 .

 
