Executive Order 8043—Amending Schedules A and B of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution, by Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631), by   of   (22 Stat. 403), and as President of  , Schedules A and B of   are hereby amended to read as follows:

SCHEDULE A

POSITIONS   FROM EXAMINATION UNDER SECTION 3, CIVIL SERVICE RULE II

I. Entire Executive Civil Service

1. Chaplains.

2. Cooks, when in the opinion of the   it is not expedient to make appointment upon competitive examination; but this paragraph shall not apply to positions of cook at fixed locations, such as hospitals, quarantine stations, or penal institutions.

3. Positions to which appointments are made by the President without confirmation by the  .

4. Special attorneys employed on a temporary basis for specific litigation or other legal work where knowledge of local values or conditions or other specialized qualifications not possessed by the attorneys regularly employed by the department are required for successful results. Such temporary employment shall be only for such time as is required to complete the specific assignment for which the original appointment was approved.

5.  ,  , and   interpreters.

6. Any person receiving from one department or establishment of the Government for his personal salary compensation aggregating not more than $540 per annum whose duties require only a portion of his time, or whose services are needed for very brief periods at intervals, provided that employment under this provision shall not be for job work such as contemplated in section 4 of rule  . This paragraph does not apply to employments in  ,   The name of the employee, designation, duties, rate of pay, and place of employment shall be shown in the periodical reports of changes; and in addition, when payment is not at a per annum rate, the total service rendered and the distribution of such service during   shall be shown in the report of changes at   or when the employee is separated from the service. The additional employment under similar conditions of such a person by another department or establishment of the   will be subject to the approval of  .

7. Any person employed in a foreign country or in  , or in any island possession of   in the Pacific ocean (except  ), or   citizens employed in a confidential capacity in  , when in the opinion of   it is not practicable to treat the position as in the competitive classified service; but this paragraph shall not apply to any person employed in   or   in the service of  ,  , or to any person employed in any foreign country by  .

8. Officers and employees in the Federal service on the Isthmus of  , except accountant, bookkeeper, clerk, draftsman, physician, playground director,  , stenographer, surgeon, trained nurse, typist, and harbor personnel in    . Appointments to clerical positions on the Isthmus of   paying $100 in   currency per month or less may be made without examination.

9. Positions in   when, in the opinion of the  , the use of existing registers or the establishment of new registers is considered impracticable. Former employees who served in positions excepted under this paragraph may be reinstated to positions in   in the department in which they served upon recommendation of the appointing officer and approval of  .

10. Temporary, part-time, or intermittent employments of mechanics, skilled laborers, and tradesmen on construction or repair work in the field services, in places where there is no local board of examiners of   for the employing establishment, and where the   deems it impracticable to establish registers of eligibles.   employments of a recurring nature are not authorized under this paragraph.

II.  

1. Three special assistants to the Secretary of  .

2. All employees of international commissions, congresses, conferences, and boards, except  ;  ,   and  ; and  ,  ,  , and  .

3. Chief and two assistant chiefs of the foreign service buildings office.

4. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

5. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   appointed by the President.

6. One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

III.  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   appointed by the President.

3. Special employees in the field service of  ; and special employees for temporary detective work in the field service of   under the appropriation for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons violating the internal revenue laws. Appointments under this paragraph shall be limited to persons whose services are required because of individual knowledge of violations of the law, and such appointments shall be continued only so long as the personal knowledge possessed by the appointee of such violation makes his services necessary. This exemption from competition is for special and unusual cases only and report shall be made to   by letter as soon as the appointment is made.

4. Classified positions at Government sanatoria when filled by patients during treatment or convalescence.

5. All persons actually employed in leprosy, yellow fever, and psittacosis investigation stations.

6. Any local physician or dentist employed in   on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

7. Employees engaged on problems in preventive medicine financed or participated in by   and a cooperating  ,  , municipality, incorporated organization, or an individual, in which at least one-half of the expense is contributed by the cooperating agency either in salaries, quarters, materials, equipment, or other necessary elements in the carrying on of the work.

8. Professional, technical, or scientific specialists when employed in   on a fee basis or part-time basis as consultants in connection with problems in preventive medicine, such appointments to be subject to the prior approval of the  .

9. Interns (medical and dental) in  .

10.   associates holding fellowships for a fixed term of service in   under the act approved  . The qualifications for such research associates shall be subject to approval by the  .

11.   in foreign countries designated as "interpreter-translator" and "special employee", when filled by appointment of persons who are not citizens of  ; and positions in foreign countries of messenger and janitor.

IV. War Department

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of War and one to each Assistant Secretary of War.

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of War.

3.   and dock seamen employed at ports in  ; and the following positions on transport snips:  , water tender, oiler,  , wiper, room-bath and deck steward, messman,  , dishwasher, janitor, porter, scullion, silver and glass man,  , headwaiter, waiter, bellboy, barber, laundryman,   steward, administrative assistant- , soda dispenser; and all grades of the following:  , baker, butcher, pantryman.  , with the concurrence of the Secretary of War, is authorized to include in the classified service any of the foregoing positions which are of a character and stability of tenure similar to those now classified.

4. Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-military nature and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when in the opinion of the   they cannot be filled from registers of eligibles.

5. One consulting architect for work of reconstructing  ,  ,  

6. In  : artisans engaged in a recognized trade, craft or skilled (manual) occupation; helpers in such occupations; and other subordinate employees in similar manual occupations; when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

7. Caretakers of abandoned military reservations or of abandoned or unoccupied military posts when the positions are filled by retired noncommissioned officers or enlisted men.

8. Civilian professors, instructors, and teachers at  ,  ,  , except the following: civilian instructor of wrestling, civilian instructor of boxing, civilian instructor of gymnastics, chapel organist and choirmaster, teachers at the children's school, and librarian.

9. Physicians and surgeons employed on a fee basis or under contract when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

10. Employees at   hospitals in the   and in   when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

 

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

2. Professors, instructors, and teachers in  .

3. Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-naval character and involve the security of secret or confidential matter when, in the opinion of the  , they cannot be filled from registers of eligibles.

4. Positions of attendant and orderly at   when filled by the appointment of beneficiaries of the  .

5. At the naval stations at  ,  , and Guantanamo: artisans engaged in a recognized craft, trade, or skilled (manual) occupation; helpers in such occupations; other subordinate employees in similar manual occupations; supervisory employees over workers in these occupations; when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

VI.  

1. Director and not more than three assistant directors of prisons.

2. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Attorney General, and one to each of the following: Assistant to the Attorney General, Solicitor General, Assistant Solicitor General, and each Assistant Attorney General.

3. One chauffeur for the Attorney General.

4. Eight positions in the immediate office of the Attorney General in addition to those excepted under paragraph 2 of this subdivision.

5. Members or the board of parole.

VII.  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to  , one to each Assistant  , and one to the Solicitor of  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau (or office) in   in  ,  , who is appointed by the President.

3. One chauffeur for  .

4. Two special assistants to  .

 . Department of the Interior

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the   and one to each assistant Secretary of the  .

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of the  .

3. The assistant to the Secretary in the office of the Secretary of the  .

4. Consulting engineers, geologists, and economists on reclamation work in agriculture.

5. Positions in  ,  ,  , and in the field, when filled by the appointment of   who are of one-fourth or more   blood.

6. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President, and one each to the Governors of  ,  ,  , and  .

7. All employees of   on   in  .

8. Agricultural extension agents and home demonstration agents employed in field positions in  , the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

9. Local physicians and dentists employed in   on a part-time or fee basis or under contract, when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

IX.  . (a) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

(b) Local agents, except veterinarians, employed temporarily outside of   in demonstrating in their respective localities the necessity of eradicating cattle ticks, scabies, hog cholera, and animal tuberculosis, and other contagious or infectious animal diseases.

(c) Agents employed to take and transmit meteorological observations in connection with airways, whose duties require only a part of their time, and whose compensation does not exceed $100 per month.

In making appointments under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the   setting forth the name, designation, and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties, in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under one of the above classes. The same procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of Agriculture.

3. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

4. Student assistants whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $480 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, except in exceptionally .meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

5. Temporary, intermittent or seasonal positions in   when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a national forest and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the national forest, subject to the approval of the  .

6. Two assistants to the Secretary in the office of the Secretary of Agriculture.

7. Any local veterinarian employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis where, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

 

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Executive Director.

 .  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

3. One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

4. Student assistants in   whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $480 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing pursuing technical or scientific courses shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, except in especially meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

5.  , deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of  .  , with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , is authorized to include in the classified service any of the foregoing positions which are of a character and stability of tenure similar to those now classified.

6. Six assistants to the Secretary in the office of the Secretary of  .

7. Temporary appointments to such positions required in connection with the surveying operations of the field service of   as may be authorized by the   after consultation with  . Appointments to such positions shall not exceed   in any one calendar year.

8. Caretakers and helpers at magnetic and seismological observatories outside continental  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.

 .  

1. Commissioners of conciliation in labor disputes whenever in the judgment of the Secretary of   the interests of industrial peace so require.

2. Three special assistants to the Secretary in the office of the Secretary.

3. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

4. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

 . Bureau of the Budget

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Director and Assistant Director.

 .  

1. Members of  .

XVI.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each of the three members of  .

2. Caretakers and light attendants employed on. emergency landing fields and other air navigation facilities.

XVII.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

 .  

1. Five special assistants to the Administrator.

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.

3. Professional or technical specialists when employed temporarily for consultation purposes.

4. Positions in   facilities when filled by the appointment of members of such facilities receiving domiciliary care, if in the opinion of  , the duties can be satisfactorily performed by such members.

5. Any local physician or dentist employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

XIX.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

 . Employees' Compensation Commission

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.

XXI.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Governor of  ,   Commissioner,  ,  , and   Commissioner.

2. Positions in   and  .

3. Positions in  .

4. Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

5. One general counsel, one general solicitor, and three assistant general counsel.

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.

XXIII.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

XXIV.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

XXVI.  

1. The superintendent of  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

 .  

1. Professional, scientific, and technical experts employed for short periods for consultation purposes.

 .  

1. Physicians and dentists employed on a part-time or fee basis, and professional, scientific, or technical experts employed for short periods for consultation purposes.

XXX.  

1. Members of  .

XXXI.  

1. Members of  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of  .

2. One general counsel.

3. All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed banks or the liquidation of loans to banks, and all temporary field positions the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured banks.

 .  , Inc.

1. The Commissioner of Industries.

XXXIV.  

1. One position of counsel.

 .  

1. One Deputy Administrator and five Assistant Administrators.

2. One general counsel.

XXXVI.  

1. All positions on government-owned ships operated by the  .

SCHEDULE B

POSITIONS WHICH MAY BE FILLED UPON NONCOMPETITIVE EXAMINATION

 

1. Any competitive position at an   school when filled by the wife of a competitive employee of the school, when because of isolation or lack of quarters, the   deems it in the interest of the service to have appointment made upon noncompetitive examination.

2. Twelve field representatives to act as the immediate and confidential representatives of  , subject to such evidence of qualifications as   may prescribe after consultation with  .

II.  

1. Such administrative or custodial positions in the field service of   relating to the management or maintenance of Federal low-rent housing projects which, in the opinion of the  , cannot be filled satisfactorily through open competitive examination; provided that no position shall be filled under this paragraph unless it is clearly demonstrated that the best interests of the service will be served thereby.

III.  

1. Commercial attaches and assistant commercial attaches, trade commissioners and assistant trade commissioners, and their clerks, appointed by the Secretary to investigate trade conditions abroad; and not to exceed six specialists who may be employed in   for the purpose of promoting the foreign and domestic commerce of  .

2. Special agents employed in collecting cotton statistics.

IV. War Department

1. Positions of military storekeeper in   when filled by retired noncommissioned officers of  .

2. Four positions of headquarters messenger at the headquarters of  , when filled by honorably discharged enlisted men who have been on duty at those headquarters.

3. Any person employed in an area outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of War the best interests of the service so require.

4. Classified positions in  , when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

V. District of Columbia

1. Surgeons of the police and fire departments of  .

VI.  

1. Classified positions in   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

VII.  

1. Specialists in foreign relations, political, economic, and financial, whose proposed compensation is $3,200 or more, and whose training and experience along the lines of their proposed duties meet the standard minimum qualifications set up in open competitive examinations for positions in the professional service for corresponding grades.

2. Persons formerly employed abroad as   diplomatic or consular officers of career or foreign-service officers of career for the period of  , for service in   as administrative officers or executive advisers in positions comparable in salary with the associate professional grade or higher.

 .  

1. Such positions of a professional, scientific, technical, or supervisory nature under the Naval Establishment in  , as may be agreed upon by the Secretary of the   and  .

2. Any person employed in an area outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of the   the best interests of the service so require.

3. Classified positions in the field service of   and   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

IX.  

1. One postal rate expert.

 

1. Classified positions in   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

  with the concurrence of the department or agency concerned may revoke in whole or in part any paragraph of   or B.

Final decision as to whether the duties of any position in the executive civil service are such that appointments thereto are authorized under any paragraph of Schedule A or B shall rest with  .

This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .
