Executive  — . 10(c)
 
 

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

By virtue of the authority vested in me under section 4 of title I of the act entitled "An Act to maintain the credit of  ", approved   (Public, No. 2, 73d Cong.), the following regulation amending   and  . 10(b) is hereby prescribed:

1. Paragraph X of Veterans' Regulation No. 10, as amended by  . 10(b), is amended to read as follows:

"X. No person holding an office or position, appointive or elective, under  , or the municipal government of  , or under any corporation, the majority of the stock of which is owned by  , shall be paid a pension, or emergency officers' retirement pay, so long as he continues to draw a salary from such employment, except (1) those receiving pension or emergency officers' retirement pay for disabilities incurred in combat with an enemy of   or for disabilities resulting from an explosion of an instrumentality of war in line of duty during an enlistment or employment as provided in  . 1 (a), part I, paragraph I; (2) those persons so employed whose pension is protected by the provisions of the Act; however, the rate of pension as to this class shall not exceed $6 per month; (3) those unmarried persons whose salary or compensation for service as such employee is in an amount not in excess of $1,000 per annum, computed  , or any married person or any person with minor children whose salary or compensation for service as such employee is in an amount not in excess of $2,500 per annum, computed  ; and (4) widows of veterans."

2.   10 is amended by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:

"XXI. Any person entitled to monetary benefits under the provisions of title I, Public, No. 2, Seventy-third  , or section 20, Public, No. 78, Seventy-third  , may renounce his right thereto. The application renouncing the right shall be in writing over the person's signature and upon filing of such application, payment of monetary benefits and the right thereto shall be terminated and he shall be denied any and all rights thereto from date of receipt of such application by  . The renouncement provided for herein shall not preclude the person from filing a new application for pension at a future date but such application shall have the attributes of an original application and no payment will be made for any period prior to the date thereof."

3. The amendments contained in this regulation shall be effective as of the date of promulgation.

 

 ,

 .
