Executive Order  —Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C. § 132), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as chapter   thereof:

CHAPTER XV—DOCUMENTATION OF MERCHANDISE

XV-1.

Consular Duty to Enforce Compliance With Laws and Regulations of United States Relating to Documentation of Merchandise for Importation Into  

Consular officers of   shall familiarize themselves with the provisions of laws and regulations of   relating to the documentation of merchandise for importation into   from abroad and shall require the shippers of such merchandise, or their agents, to comply with such laws and regulations before performing for them any of the services herein authorized in connection with the certification of invoices.

XV-2.

Discretionary Authority of Consular Officers to   of Attorney for Agents to Sign Invoices

Before certifying invoices signed by an agent, a consular officer may, if he deems it necessary, require that a power of attorney authorizing the agent to sign invoices be executed by the principal in the transaction and deposited in the consular office.

XV-3.

Consular Duties in Connection With the Certification of invoices for Merchandise to be   to  

Consular officers shall perform such duties in connection with the certification of invoices for merchandise to be shipped to   as may be required by the laws of   and by administrative rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  .

 .

  and Customs Regulations

In replying to inquiries received from exporters, travelers, or other interested parties, concerning tariff acts or customs regulations, consular officers shall refrain from giving, or appearing to give, decisions pertaining to matters upon which they are not competent to pass.

XV-5.

Duty of Consular Officers to Furnish Samples of Merchandise to Collectors of Customs or Appraising Officers

Upon the receipt of a request therefor from a collector of customs or appraising officer of  , a consular officer shall procure and forward samples of merchandise being imported or offered for importation into   from his particular district.

XV-6.

Duty of Consular Officers to   officers shall render all proper assistance to   representatives abroad to aid them in the performance of their official duties.

CANCELATION OF REGULATIONS

The following-named provisions of   are hereby canceled:

PART II

Chapter XXXI

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS

The following-named Executive orders are hereby revoked:

Executive  , dated  

Executive Order  , dated  

 

 ,

 .
