Executive  -A—Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Textile Industry
 
 

A Code of Fair Competition for   has been heretofore approved by   of the President dated  , on certain conditions set forth in such order. The applicants for said Code have now requested the withdrawal of condition 12 of said order providing for the termination of approval at   unless expressly renewed, have accepted certain other conditions, have proposed amendments to the Code to effectuate the intent of the remaining conditions, and have requested that final approval be given to the Code as so amended and on such conditions.

Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , on the report and recommendation of the Administrator and on consideration,

It is ordered that the condition heretofore imposed as to the termination of approval of the Code is now withdrawn and that the Code of Fair Competition for   is finally approved with the conditions so accepted and with the amendments so proposed, as set forth in   attached hereto.

 

Approval recommended:

 .

 ,

 .

(SCHEDULE A)

APPLICATION TO THE PRESIDENT BY  , the applicant for the approval of the Code of Fair Competition for  , submitted for the approval of the President  , and as revised  , accepts the interpretations and conditions to the approval thereof set forth in paragraphs 1, 3,  ,  ,  , and 13 of the order of the President dated   9,1933, and asks the approval of the President to the following amendments to such code as properly complying with and effectuating the conditions provided for in paragraphs 2,  ,  ,  , 10 and 11 of said order of approval, and asks for the final approval by the President of the Code of Fair Competition for   as so amended, and on the conditions so accepted and with the omission of the condition in paragraph 12 of such order as to the termination of the approval at  .

1. It shall be one of the functions of   provided for in Section 6 of the Code to consider the question of plans for eventual employee ownership of homes in mill villages and submit to the   prior to  , its report in the matter.

2. On and after  , the maximum hours of labor for office employees in   shall be an average of forty hours a week over    .

3. The amount of differences existing prior to  , between the wage rates paid various classes of employees (receiving more than the established minimum wage) shall not be decreased-in no event, however, shall any employer pay any employee a wage rate which will yield a less wage for   of 40 hours than such employee was receiving for the same class of work for   of 48 hours or more prevailing prior to  . It shall be a function of   provided for in Paragraph 6 of the Code to observe the operation of these provisions and recommend such further provisions as experience may indicate to be appropriate to effectuate their purposes.

4. On and after the effective date the maximum hours of labor of repair shop crews, engineers, electricians and watching crews in   shall, except in case of emergency work, be forty hours a week with a tolerance of 10 per cent. Any emergency time in any mill shall be reported   to   provided for in Paragraph 6 of the Code, through  .

5. Until adoption of further provisions of this Code that may prove necessary to prevent any improper speeding up of work ( stretch-outs ), no employee of any mill in   shall be required to do any work in excess of the practices as to the class of work of such employee prevailing on  , or prior to the  -the-Work Movement, unless such increase is submitted to and approved by the   created by Sections 6 of the Code and by  .

6. This Code shall be in operation on and after the effective date as to the whole cotton textile industry except as an exemption from or a stay of the application of its provisions may be granted by the Administrator to a person applying for the same or except as provided in an executive order. No distinction shall be made in such exemptions between persons who have and have not joined in applying for the approval of this Code.

Respectfully submitted,

 ,

 ,

Chairman.

Dated:

 .
