Executive Order 9524—Amending Executive Order No. 9195 of  , Prescribing Regulations Relating to Aerial Flights by Personnel of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  
 
 

Executive Order No. 9195 of  , prescribing regulations relating to aerial flights by personnel of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  , as amended by Executive Order No. 9458 of  , is hereby further amended as indicated below:

1. The title and preamble of the said order are amended to read as follows:

REGULATIONS RELATING TO AERIAL FLIGHTS BY PERSONNEL OF THE  ,  ,  ,  , AND  , AND OFFICERS OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE DETAILED FOR DUTY WITH  

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 20 of the act of  , 42 Stat. 632, as amended by section 6 of the act of  , 44 Stat. 782, by section 18 of the Pay Readjustment Act of  , approved   (56 Stat. 368), and by section 215 (a) of  , approved   (58 Stat. 690), I hereby prescribe the following regulations relating to increased pay for personnel of the  ,  ,  ,   and  , and for officers of   detailed for duty with  , when by orders of competent authority they are required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights, and when in consequence of such orders they do participate in regular and frequent flights.

2. Subdivision (f) of paragraph 1 of the order is amended to read as follows:

(f) The terms "student naval flight surgeon" and "student   flight surgeon" shall be construed to include any naval medical officer and any officer of   while detailed for duty with   who is duly appointed and assigned flight instruction leading to the designation of naval flight surgeon or   flight surgeon.

3.   and 5 of the order are amended to read as follows:

4. Each officer of   or of the   and each officer of   while detailed for duty with   who is duly assigned to duty with any aeronautic headquarters or unit of the  ,  ,  , or  , or assigned to duty at a station where there is an aeronautic unit, and who has qualified as a flight surgeon or as an aviation medical examiner may be required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights by    , or by such officer or officers as he may designate, for the  , and by the Chief of Naval Personnel for the   and  , and by   for officers of   detailed for duty with  ; and any orders for such requirement shall remain in force for the entire period of such assignment, except as hereinafter provided in paragraph 12.

5. Each officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man of the   who is duly assigned to a course of instruction for qualification as aircraft pilot or aircraft observer, and each officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man of the  ,  , or  , and each officer of   while detailed for duty with  , who is duly appointed a student aviator, a student aviation pilot, a student aviation observer, a student naval flight surgeon, or a student   flight surgeon, shall be required to participate regularly and frequently In aerial flights. Orders for such requirement shall be issued by  , or by such officer or officers as he may designate, for the  , by the Chief of Naval Personnel for the  , by   for  , and by   for   and for officers of   detailed for duty with  ; and such orders shall remain in force for the entire period of the course of instruction, except as hereinafter provided in paragraph 12.

4. Paragraph 8 of the order is amended to read as follows:

8. Each officer, warrant officer, member of   or   (female), or enlisted man other than those specified in paragraphs 2,  ,  ,  ,  , and 7, may be required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights. Orders for such requirements shall be issued by  , or by such officer or officers as he may designate, for personnel commissioned in   or on duty with  , by the Secretary of War, or such officer or officers as he may designate, for other branches of the  , by the Chief of Naval Personnel for the  , by   for  , and by   for   and for officers of   detailed for duty with  ; and such orders shall remain in force for the entire period of such assignment, except as hereinafter provided in paragraph 12.

5. So much of paragraph 10 of the order as precedes the proviso therein is amended to read as follows:

10. For personnel of the  ,  ,  ,  , and   (when in the active military service of   and when participating in exercises or performing duties provided for by sections    , and 99 of the National Defense Act, as amended) and for officers of   detailed for duty with   who are required by competent authority to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights, the following requirements are prescribed:

6. The third sentence of paragraph 12 of the order is amended to read as follows:

In all other cases such action shall be reported with the reasons therefor, for confirmation to    , or to such officer or officers as he may designate, for personnel commissioned in   or on duty with  , and to the Secretary of War, or such officer or officers as he may designate, for other branches of the  , or to the officer who issued the order requiring the person concerned to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights for the  ,  , and  , and for officers of   detailed for duty with  .

7. This order shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .
