Executive  —Relating to the Operation and   at the Denison Dam, the Grand River Dam, and the Norfork Dam, in  ,  , and  
 
 

Whereas

 , under the direction of the Secretary of War and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers of  , is constructing the Denison Dam Project at  ,  , for the purpose of improving navigation, regulating the flow of the Red River, controlling floods, and for other beneficial uses, and in connection therewith will install, operate, and maintain facilities for the generation of electric power and energy; and

Whereas

it is essential to the prosecution of the war, and in the interest of the public, that the electric power and energy to be generated at the Denison Dam Project be distributed and made available to war plants and establishments, public bodies and  , and other persons, in the order named, with the ultimate purpose of providing a dependable market for such power and energy; and

Whereas

it is essential that there be unified administrative control over the disposition of electric energy generated at this and other adjacent power projects under Federal control:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly by section 16 of the Federal Power Act, Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and by Title III of the Second War Powers Act,   (56 Stat. 176), and as Commander in Chief of the   and   and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

I. 1. The Secretary of the   is hereby designated as agent for the sale and distribution of electric power and energy generated at the Denison Dam Project and not required for the operation of that  .

2.   (including facilities for the generation of electric energy) shall be completed, maintained, and operated under the direction of the Secretary of War and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers, subject to the provisions of  , approved  , as amended, and this order.

3. The Secretary of War shall (a) provide and maintain for the use of the Secretary of the Interior at the Denison Dam Project adequate station space and equipment, including such switches, switchboards, instruments, and dispatching facilities as may be required by the Secretary of the   for proper reception, handling, and dispatch of the electric energy generated at the  , together with transformers and other equipment required by the Secretary of the Interior for the transmission of such energy from that place at suitable voltage to the markets which the Secretary of the   desires to serve; (b) deliver to the Secretary of the   the electric energy generated at the Denison Dam Project and not required for the operation thereof; and (c) schedule the operations of the electric generating unit or units and appurtenant equipment of   in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary of the  , so far as those requirements are consistent with requirements for the storage or discharge of water for improving navigation, regulating the flow of the Red River, controlling floods, and for other beneficial uses.

4. The Secretary of the  , acting for and on behalf of  , through such person or persons as he may designate, is hereby authorized and directed (a) to sell and dispose of electric energy generated at the Denison Dam Project to war plants and establishments, public bodies and  , and other persons, in that order of preference, at such rates as may be approved by  ; and (b) to construct such facilities and to make such other arrangements as he deems necessary to interconnect   with other utility systems in the area and interchange electric energy with and purchase electric energy from such systems, and to sell and distribute electric energy, in accordance with the provisions of this order.

5. Being satisfied that the fulfilment of the military requirements of   will result in a shortage in the supply of copper and other materials and facilities for the transmission and distribution of electric energy required for the prosecution of the war, I hereby further authorize and direct the Secretary of the   to allocate transmission and distribution lines and appurtenant facilities in the area for the purpose of transmitting and distributing electric energy generated at the Denison Dam Project, to such extent as, in the judgment of the Secretary of the  , will not substantially interfere with the other uses of such lines and facilities, and upon such terms as the owners thereof and the Secretary of the   may thereafter agree upon or, in the absence of such agreement, as may be fixed by  .

6. All receipts from the sale and disposition of the electric energy generated at the Denison Dam Project shall be covered into the   of   to the credit of "Miscellaneous Receipts".

7. The Secretary of the   may employ such personnel, without compliance with the requirements of  , and take such other steps, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this  .

II. 1. Subject to the limitations and restrictions contained therein, all authority and power vested in   by Executive Order No. 8944 of   with respect to the Grand River Dam Authority,  ,  ,  .   ( ) are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the  , to be exercised through such person or persons as he may designate.

2. Subject to the limitations and restrictions contained therein, all authority and power vested in   by Executive Order   with respect to   in the White River Basin in     and  , are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the   to be exercised through such person or persons as he may designate.

3. All property, personnel, records, contracts, funds, and accounts used by   in the administration of the functions transferred by this   are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the   for use In the administration of such functions.

This Order shall become effective  .

 

 ,

 .
