Executive Order 9458—Amending Paragraphs 6 and 7 of Executive Order No. 9195 of  , Prescribing Regulations Relating to Aerial Flights by Personnel of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 20 of the act of  , 42 Stat. 632, as amended by section 6 of the act of  , 44 Stat. 782, and by section 18 of the Pay Readjustment Act of  , approved  , 56 Stat. 368, it is ordered that paragraphs 6 and 7 of Executive Order No. 9195 of  , prescribing regulations relating to aerial flights by personnel of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  , be, and they are hereby, amended to read as follows:

"6. Each enlisted man who is on duty with   or is serving in any part of the aeronautic organization of the  ,  , or   and who is a qualified aircraft pilot or observer shall be required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights by his commanding officer. Orders for such requirement shall remain in force until revoked by the issuing authority or by a subsequent commanding officer of the enlisted man, whether in the same or another organization, except as hereinafter provided in paragraph 12. Such orders and the revocation thereof shall be reported to     or to such officer or officers as he may designate for the  , the Chief of Naval Personnel for the  ,   for  , or   for  .

"7. Each enlisted man who is on duty with   or is serving in any part of the aeronautic organization of the  ,  , or   and who is not a qualified aircraft pilot or observer may be required to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights by his commanding officer. Orders for such requirement shall remain in force until revoked by the issuing authority or by a subsequent commanding officer of the enlisted man, whether in the same or another organization, except as hereinafter provided in paragraph 12. Such orders and the revocation thereof shall be reported to     or to such officer or officers as he may designate for the  , the Chief of Naval Personnel for the  ,   for  , or   for  ."

 

 ,

 .
