Executive Order  —Postponing  . 7916 of  , With   to Certain Positions and Providing for a Committee To Investigate and Report Methods for Selecting and Promoting Certain Personnel in Civil Service
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution, by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (U.S.C., title 5,  . 631), by   of   (22 Stat. 403, 404), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Until further order, Executive Order No. 7916 of  , is suspended and made inoperative in so far as it covers into the competitive classified civil service as of  

(a) Positions to which, in the opinion of  , it is not practicable to make appointment upon competitive examination.

(b) Positions the duties of which are determined, with the concurrence of  , to be of a highly confidential character.

(c) Professional and scientific positions.

(d) Positions in  .

(e) Such administrative and technical positions as are defined in this order.

2. As used in this order the term "administrative and technical positions" shall mean all classes of positions:

(a) The duties of which are to perform the most difficult and responsible office work along specialized and technical lines requiring extended training and experience, and the exercise of independent judgment, or to supervise a large or important office organization engaged in work involving extended training and considerable experience on the part of the employees, and all positions of a higher grade.

(b) The duties of which are to perform difficult and important investigative services, being mostly on criminal or quasi-criminal cases, or cases requiring similar investigative procedures, and all positions of a higher grade.

3. A committee is hereby appointed consisting of the following:

Mr. Justice  , Chairman

Mr. Justice  

Attorney General  

 , Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the  

Mr.  

General  

Mr.  

Such committee shall make a comprehensive study of methods of recruiting, testing, selecting, promoting, transferring, removing and reinstating personnel for the positions to which this order relates, and report to the President as soon as possible its recommendations thereon.

 

 ,

 

.
