Executive Order 6758—Including Positions in   in  
 
 

Whereas

by Executive Order No.  , dated  ,   was created by changing the name of   to   and transferring thereto the functions and personnel of certain other   agencies dealing with agricultural credit; and

Whereas

by virtue of such transfer and of the fact that   was subject to civil-service laws and rules, most classes of positions in   are now subject to such laws and rules; and

Whereas

under Executive Order No.  , dated  , employees of the various agencies constituting   who were employed therein on  , became eligible, upon recommendation by the Governor of  , to acquire civil-service status by noncompetitive examination; and

Whereas

it is desirable, in the interest of good administration, that standards of selection and compensation of employees of   be uniform and that employees in similar positions enjoy equal rights:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Civil Service Act of   (ch. 27, 22 Stat. 403, 404), and section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C.,  . 631), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All positions in   are hereby included in the classified civil service and appointments thereto will hereafter be made in accordance with civil-service laws and rules, except as hereinafter provided.

2. The provisions of this order are not intended to affect the authority of the Governor of   to appoint such employees as may be necessary for the administration of emergency crop production loans under act of  , or to appoint and fix the salaries of experts and attorneys in accordance with section 4 of the Agricultural Marketing Act and Executive Order No.  , dated  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , dated  , or the authority of   Commissioner to make appointments under section 1017, title 12, of  .

3. Incumbents of positions affected by this order who do not already possess a classified civil-service status shall not acquire such status by reason of the provisions of the preceding paragraphs. However, incumbents employed in such positions on  , may be appointed to the classified civil service if, prior to  , after recommendation by the Governor of  , they pass such noncompetitive tests of fitness as   may prescribe.

 

 ,

 .
