Executive Order  —Entry of Alien Seamen Into  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority contained in the act of   (40 Stat. 559) as extended by the act of   (41 Stat.  ; 22 U.S.C. 227) and as amended by the act approved   (55 Stat. 252), the Immigration Act of   (39 Stat. 874), the Immigration Act of   (43 Stat. 153), as amended, and the Alien Registration Act,   (54 Stat. 670), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the entry of alien seamen into  :

PART I

Requirement of   of maritime vessels (except government vessels and such other vessels as the Secretary of  , in his discretion, may indicate) of all nationalities sailing for a port of   must submit for visa a list of all the alien members of the vessel's crew to the   consular officer at the port from which the vessel commences its voyage. If there is no consular officer stationed at that port, but if there is one stationed at a nearby place to whom the list may be submitted by mail for visa without delaying the vessel's departure, the list must be so submitted for visa. If there is no   consular officer stationed nearby, the list must be submitted for visa at the first port of call where an   consular officer is stationed, but if the vessel does not call at any such port, no visa of the crew list will be required. The visa of a shipping commissioner in the Canal Zone shall be equivalent to the visa of an   consular officer, but a consular agent is not authorized to visa crew lists. The visaed crew list must be delivered to the immigration authorities or, where there is no representative of   of  , to the appropriate officer of the boarding party at the vessel's first port of call in  .

Alien seamen whose names are not on a visaed crew list when a visaed crew list is required of the vessel on which they arrive at a port of   shall not be allowed to land without the permission of the Secretary of  , except that for such seamen arriving at a port in   the Governor thereof is authorized to grant temporary landing privileges and for such seamen arriving at a port in the Canal Zone the Governor of the Panama Canal is authorized to grant temporary landing privileges.

An alien seaman who is not exempt from the passport and visa requirements under Part II hereof shall be required to present an identifying travel document in the nature of a passport, showing his nationality and identity and bearing his photograph, before he may be granted shore leave for any purpose, unless the possession of such an identifying travel document is waived by the Secretary of  , except that for such a seaman arriving at a port in   the Governor thereof may grant such waiver and for such a seaman arriving at a port of the Canal Zone the Governor of the Panama Canal may grant such waiver. The disposition of such documents after presentation shall be subject to regulations.

PART II

Seamen Entering Other Than as Crew Members

Alien seamen whose occupational status as such is found to be bona fide. entering   as passengers or workaways solely in pursuit of their calling as seamen, shall be exempt from the crew-Ust visa or other non-immigrant visa requirements for such period and under such conditions as the Secretary of  , in his discretion, may prescribe if they arrive in   under the following circumstances:

(a) Shipwrecked or castaway seamen rescued by, or transferred at sea to, a vessel bound for an   port;

(b) Seamen who are   consular passengers or who are repatriated without expense to   following, and in accordance with the terms of, their discharge in a foreign port before an   consular officer;

(c) Seamen who were members of the crew of an   vessel which has been sold or delivered abroad when the contract of their employment provides for the return of the crew or when the laws of   provide for their return to an   port.

PART III

Returning Immigrant Seamen

Alien seamen who, previously, have been lawfully admitted into   for permanent residence, who are returning to an unrelinquished domicile in   and who are not inadmissible into   under the immigration laws, may be permitted to land as returning residents without reentry permits or non-quota immigration visas issued under section 4 (b) of the Immigration Act of  , notwithstanding the fact that they may be included in crew-list visas.

PART IV

Provision for Additional Rules and Regulations

The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as they may deem necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned herein, within their respective jurisdictions.

PART V

Effective Date of Order

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede and cancel Executive Order 8429 of   entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States", with the exception that a period of   from the effective date of this order shall be allowed alien seamen in which they must have their photographs affixed to their documents or cards of identity and nationality required under this order.

As used in this order, the term " " includes all territory and waters, continental or insular, subject to the jurisdiction of  .

 

 ,

 .
