Executive Order 8429—Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 40 Stat. 559, as extended by the act of  , 41 Stat.  ,  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the entry of alien seamen into  :

PART I

Seamen whose occupational status as such is found to be bona fide, entering ports of   solely in pursuit of their calling as seamen, may be admitted temporarily in the discretion of the immigration authorities and under regulations prescribed by the department head charged with the administration of the immigration laws without passports or visas if arriving in   under the following circumstances:

(a) Seamen who were members of the crew of an   vessel which has been sold and delivered abroad, when the contract of employment provides for the return of the crew, or the laws of   provide for their return to an   port.

(b) Seamen who have been lawfully admitted into   for permanent residence returning to   in accordance with the terms of the articles of outward voyage.

(c) Shipwrecked or cast-away seamen rescued by or transferred to a vessel bound to an   port.

(d) Seamen who are   consular passengers or are repatriated without expense to   following and in accordance with the terms of their discharge in a foreign port before an   consular officer, but who, for any reason, can not be considered as serving as seamen on the vessel on which they arrive at an   port.

PART II

Masters of maritime vessels (except government vessels and such other vessels as the Secretary of  , in his discretion, may indicate) of all nationalities sailing for a port of   must submit for visa a list of all the alien members of the vessel's crew to the   consular officer at the port from which the vessel commences its voyage. If there is no consular officer stationed at that port, but there is one stationed at a nearby place to whom the list may be submitted by mail for visa without delay of the vessel's departure, the list must be so submitted for visa. If there is no   consular officer stationed nearby, the list must be submitted for visa at the first port of call where an   consular officer is stationed, but if the vessel does not call at any such port then no visa of the crew list will be required. The visa of a shipping commissioner in the Canal Zone shall be equivalent to the visa of an   consular officer, but consular agents are not authorized to visa crew lists. The visaed crew list must be delivered to the immigration authorities at the vessel's first port of call in  .

Alien seamen whose names are not on a visaed crew list when a visaed crew list is required of the vessel on which they arrive at a port of   shall not be allowed to land without the permission of the Secretary of  , except that for such seamen arriving at a port in   the Governor thereof is authorized to grant such permission.

An alien seaman who is not exempt from the passport and visa requirements under Part I hereof shall be required to present an identifying travel document in the nature of a passport, showing his nationality and identity and bearing his fingerprints, before he may be granted shore leave for any purpose. The travel document shall be surrendered to the immigration authorities by each seaman at the time of landing and returned to him, upon personal application, at the time of departure.

As used in this order, the term " " shall include the territories of   and  ,  ,   and  .

The Secretary of   and the department head charged with the administration of the immigration laws are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned therein.

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede and cancel Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States".

 

 ,

 .
