Executive Order 6756-B—Code of Fair Competition for the Needlework Industry in  
 
 

An application having been duly made, pursuant to and in full compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved  , for my approval of a Code of Fair Competition for the Needlework Industry in  , and hearings having been held thereon and the Administrator having rendered his report containing an analysis of this Code of Fair Competition, together with his recommendations and findings with respect thereto, and the Administrator having found that this Code of Fair Competition complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of Title I of said Act and that the requirements of clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of the said Act have been met.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of   approved  , and otherwise, do adopt and approve the report, recommendations and findings of the Administrator and do order that this Code of Fair Competition be and it is hereby approved, subject to the following conditions:

1. That any member of this Industry as defined in this Code under Article II, Section 1, shall in engaging in this industry in   be exempt from the provisions of the following Codes of Fair Competition:

(a) The Handkerchief Industry

(b)  

(c)  

(d) The Blouse and  

(e)  

(f)  

(g) The Infants' and  

(h) The   and Negligee Industry

(i) The Underwear and  

(j) The Pleating,   and   and Hand Embroidery Industry

(k) The  ,   and the Embroidery Thread and  .

2. Where articles are manufactured or processed, in part, in  , under the provisions of this Code, and in part in the Continental United States under a Code of Fair Competition which prescribes the use of labels bearing   insignia upon such articles, the Code Authorities of such Codes and   of this Code shall, within a period of   from the effective date of this Code, formulate and submit for the approval of the Administrator a plan for the issuance and use of labels upon such articles, and such special regulations relating thereto as may be necessary. Pending the approval of such plan and regulations, unless the Administrator shall order otherwise, continental manufacturers, as defined in this Code, shall not be required to comply with the label provisions of their respective   as to products manufactured or processed, wholly or in part, in  , and bearing labels affixed to them pursuant to the provisions of this Code.

3. That any contractor or manufacturer as defined in this Code, in the manufacture or processing of whose products homeworkers are engaged as employees, shall be bound to pay such employees any deficiency in the wages actually received by them below the amount of wages wliich they should receive under the provisions of this Code. Such contractor or manufacturer shall be responsible for the delivery to such homeworkers of all their wages.

4. That there shall be appointed by the Administrator for the Industrial Recovery, within   after the effective date hereof, a   consisting of three persons: one of whom shall be nominated by   in  , another of whom shall be nominated by the several Code Authorities of related industries in continental  , and a third person to serve as chairman, shall be nominated by  . This commission shall study the operation of this Code together with the operation of such codes as have jurisdiction over the manufacture of competitive products in   with a view to determining the relative effect of the operation of this Code upon the manufacture of such items in the several   and in  . Such Commission shall be empowered to make recommendations to the Administrator for such modifications in this Code as may, in the opinion of the commission, be necessary in order to maintain fair competition in the needlework trade in the several   and on the Island of Puerto Rico and in order to effectuate the purposes of  .

5. That the choice of the impartial chairman of  , shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator and that the piece rates established pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of Article IV of the code shall be binding upon members of the Industry, for not more than a period of  , from the effective date of this code.   and   shall, either jointly or severally, within   after the effective date of this Code, recommend the continuation of said established minimum piecework rates or changes in such rates, or recommend a point system or other system for adjusting the minimum compensation of employees to the minimum wage rates provided in this Code. Such recommendations shall, upon approval of the Administrator, after such notice and hearing as he may prescribe, be binding upon all members of the Industry, as the rates provided for in said section

 

Approval Recommended:

Hugh S Johnson

Administrator.

 ,

 .
