Executive  —Code of Fair Competition for the Auction and Loose-Leaf Tobacco Warehouse Industry
 
 

Whereas

, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator for Industrial Recovery having rendered their separate reports and recommendations and findings on the provisions of said Code, coming within their respective jurisdictions, as set forth in Executive Order No. 6182 of  , as supplemented by Executive Order No.   and Executive Order No.   of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 6551 of  ;

Now, Therefore

, I,  , President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby find:

1. An application has been duly made, pursuant to and in full compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved  , for my approval of a Code of Fair Competition for the Auction and Loose-leaf Tobacco Warehouse Industry; and,

2. Due notice and opportunity for hearing to interested parties has been given pursuant to the provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and

3. Hearings have been held on said Code, pursuant to such notice and pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and

4. Said Code of   constitutes a Code of Fair Competition, as contemplated by the Act and complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of the Act, including clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of Title I of the Act; and

5. It appears, after due consideration, that said Code of Fair Competition will tend to effectuate the policy of   as declared in Section 1 of Title I of the Act.

Now, Therefore

, I,  , President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby approve said Code of Fair Competition for the Auction and Loose-leaf Tobacco Warehouse Industry; provided, however, that the provisions of Section 24 of Article VII shall not become effective, and they are hereby stayed for   in order to afford consideration to the objections of any interested parties, and that at the expiration of such period the provisions of such section shall become effective, unless I shall otherwise order.

 

Approval recommended:

H A Wallace

Secretary of  .

 .

Administrator

 ,

 .
