Executive  —Amending Schedule A of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   Subdivision Second of Section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403, 404), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Paragraph 7, Subdivision I of Schedule A of   is hereby amended to read as follows:

7. Any person employed in a foreign country, or in  , or in   when public exigency warrants, or in any island possession of   in the Pacific Ocean (except the Hawaiian Islands), or in  , when in the opinion of the   it is not practicable to treat the position as in the competitive classified service; but this paragraph shall not apply to any person employed in   or   in the service of  ,  , or to any person employed in any foreign country or in   by  .

Section 2. Paragraph 1, Subdivision II of Schedule A of   is hereby amended to read as follows:

1. Five special assistants to the Secretary of  .

Section 3. Subdivision XI of Schedule A is hereby amended by the addition of a new paragraph to be numbered 12 and to read as follows:

12.  : Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

In making appointments under this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above paragraph. The same procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

Section 4. Schedule A of   is hereby further amended by the addition of a new subdivision to be numbered   and to read as follows:

 . INLAND WATERWAYS CORPORATION

1. Until  , all positions in or under  .

Section 5. Schedule A of   is hereby further amended by the addition of a further subdivision to be numbered XXX and to read as follows:

XXX.  

1. Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

In making appointments under this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for. such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above paragraph. The same procedure shall' be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

 

 ,

 .
