Executive Order  —   
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 40 Stat. 559, as extended by the act of  , 41 Stat.  ,  , and by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of  , and in connection with the Alien Registration Act,  , approved   ( ,  . 670), I hereby prescribe the following regulations pertaining to documents required of aliens entering   (which regulations shall be applicable to   and to   citizens who are not citizens of  , except as may be otherwise provided by special laws and regulations governing the entry of such persons):

PART I

1. Nonimmigrants must present unexpired passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, as prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid passport or other nonimmigrant visas.

2. A nonimmigrant alien who is passing in transit through   may present a transit certificate granted by an authorized officer of  .

3. A nonimmigrant alien who enters   for a period not exceeding  , landing temporarily while the vessel on which he is a passenger is in port, or crossing the border, entering and departing via the same port of entry, may present a limited entry certificate granted by an authorized officer of  .

4. A nonimmigrant alien who is a citizen of  ,  , or  , or who is a   subject domiciled in   or  , may present a nonresident alien's border-crossing identification card issued by an authorized officer of  , if he is entering   for a period of  .

5. The Secretary of   is authorized to define cases of emergency in which the passport and visa requirements may be waived for a nonimmigrant alien.

6. No passport visa, transit certificate, limited entry certificate, or nonresident alien's border-crossing identification card shall be granted to an alien whose entry would be contrary to the public safety nor to an alien who is unable to establish a legitimate purpose or reasonable need for the proposed entry.

PART II

1. Immigrants must present unexpired passports, or official documents in the nature of passports, issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance, or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid immigration visas granted by the consular officers of   in accordance with the requirements of the Immigration Act of   and the regulations issued thereunder.

2. An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed therefrom and has returned from a temporary visit abroad, may present, in lieu of an immigration visa, an unexpired permit to reenter, issued pursuant to section 10 of the Immigration Act of  . The bearer of such a permit to reenter is not required to present a passport.

3. An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence and who has frequent occasion to cross the land borders of   may present, in lieu of an immigration visa or a permit to reenter, a resident' alien's border-crossing identification card. The bearer of such a border-crossing identification card is not required to present a passport.

4. An immigrant   national who on   (whether adult or minor) was a bona fide resident of   or adjacent islands which comprised    , and who, in accordance with Article IX of the treaty between   and   of  , has preserved his allegiance to  , may present a passport visa, in lieu of an immigration visa, for entry into  . Such aliens may be admitted into   without regard to the provisions of the Immigration Act of  , except section 23. (Act of  , ch. 400, 44 Stat. 657).

5. The Secretary of   is authorized to define cases of emergency in which the passport and immigration visa requirements may be waived for an immigrant alien.

PART III

The Executive Secretary of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from the Canal Zone. The Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  . The Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  .

PART IV

The documentary requirements for aliens applying for admission into   possessions outside   are to be prescribed by the competent authorities in such possessions.

PART V

The definitions contained in section 28 of the Immigration Act of   shall be regarded as applicable to this order, except as otherwise specified herein.

PART VI

The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned herein.

PART VII

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede and cancel the provisions of Executive Order No. 8430 of   entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States" but shall not supersede Executive Order No. 4049 of   entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States on Airships", or Executive Order No. 8429 of   entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States."

 

 ,

 .
