Executive  —Administration of   Reorganization Plan No. II
 
 

Under the authority vested In me by the act of  , 43 Stat. 140, 144, the act of  , 46 Stat.  , and Reorganization Plan. No. II, transmitted by the President to the   ( . 288) on  , and by Public Resolution No. 20, 76th  , 1st Session, approved  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations pertaining to the membership of  :

1. The officer of   who shall be added to the membership of   in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) (5) of section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. II shall sit as a member of the   only when nominations and assignments of commercial attaches, the selection or assignment of   officers for specialized training in commercial work, or other matters of interest to   are under consideration;

2. The officer of   who shall be added to the membership of   in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) (5) of section 1 of Reorganization Plan No. II shall sit as a member of the   only when nominations and assignments of agricultural attaches, the selection or assignment of   officers for specialized training in agricultural work, or other matters of interest to   are under consideration.

3. The officers of   and   who shall be designated as members of   shall also be members of   directing  , as established and provided for by section 8 of Executive Order No. 5642 of  , which is hereby amended accordingly, and each shall sit as a member of   when matters of interest to his respective   shall be under consideration.

4. With reference to   for  , the first paragraph of section 3 of the said Executive Order No. 5642 of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"3.

Examination for  . There is hereby constituted a  , which shall conduct examinations to determine the eligibility of candidates for  , composed as follows: Three Assistant Secretaries of State designated by the Secretary of  , an officer of   designated by the Secretary of   and acceptable to the Secretary of  , an officer of   designated by the Secretary of Agriculture and acceptable to the Secretary of  , the Chief of  , and the Chief Examiner of  .

"Any member of the   may, when he deems it necessary, designate another officer of his   to serve for him on the  , provided such officer as may be designated to represent a member of the   shall be acceptable to the Secretary of   and approved by him.

"The rules for the conduct of examinations as established in subsections (a) to (k), inclusive, of section 3 of the said Executive Order No. 5642 of  , shall remain in full force and effect."

This order shall become effective on  .

 

 ,

 

.
