Executive Order 9356—Regulations Governing the Furnishing of Clothing in Kind or Payment of Cash Allowances in   to   of the  ,  ,  , and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the Pay Readjustment Act of   (56 Stat. 359, 363), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the furnishing of clothing in kind, or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof, to enlisted personnel of the  ,  ,  , and  .

Section A. Clothing in Kind or Cash Allowances in  .

Enlisted men on active duty shall be entitled to clothing in kind or payment of cash allowances in lieu thereof as follows:

Section B. Clothing Allowance.

1. The amount of the cash clothing allowance prescribed in subsection   (b) hereof shall be credited on date of first enlistment or first reporting for active duty, and on date of reenlistment or recall to active duty subsequent to expiration of   from date of last discharge or release from active duty, but shall not actually be paid prior to the expiration of   from and including such date, or date of advancement to chief petty officer or assignment to band if earlier. In closing the accounts of a man discharged or released from active duty within   period, checkage shall be made of an amount equal to the difference between the amount of the cash clothing allowance credited and the value of the clothing actually drawn.

2. For the purposes of this order, an enlistment in any of the services mentioned in section A subsequent to discharge from any other of such services shall be considered a reenlistment. An allowance under subsection Al shall not be payable upon reenlistment within   from date of last discharge, or upon recall to active duty within   release therefrom, except as specified in subsections 5 and 6 of this section. A man reenlisted or recalled to active duty within   of last discharge or release from active duty, who on date of such discharge or release was checked undrawn clothing allowance in accordance with subsection 1 of this section, shall be entitled to credit for such undrawn clothing allowance.

3. The allowance under subsection A2 shall not be payable to—

(a) Enlisted men advanced in rating to chief petty officer while holding a temporary appointment to warrant or commissioned rank.

(b) Cooks or stewards on advancement to chief cook or steward.

(c) Members of  ,  , or   (band members) upon advancement in rating to chief petty officer.

4. An enlisted man reduced in rating from chief petty officer, cook, or steward, shall not be required to refund payment previously made in accordance with subsection  ; and shall not be entitled to a second payment on subsequent advancement, or to a payment of   maintenance allowance prior to the date specified in subsection   (a) hereof.

5. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection A6 hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in the case of first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a cash clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance without regard to issues in kind in the prior status.

6. An enlisted man first reporting for active duty in   in a status entitling him only to an issue of clothing in kind in accordance with subsection A7 hereof, upon subsequent transfer to, or reenlistment within   of last discharge in, another status which, in the case of first enlistment or reporting for active duty, would entitle him to a cash clothing allowance as prescribed in subsection A1 hereof, shall be entitled to a credit of such cash clothing allowance subject to a deduction for the value of clothing issued in kind in the prior status. The cash clothing allowance thus payable will be determined by the rating held upon reporting for active duty in the later status and the amounts in effect on that date. If the value of clothing issues in the prior status exceeds the applicable cash clothing allowance, no further allowance is payable, nor will checkage be made for such excess issues previously made. Men entitled under the regulations prescribed in this paragraph to a cash clothing allowance subject to deductions for the value of clothing issued in kind in a prior status, shall subsequently become entitled to the   maintenance allowance for clothing prescribed herein on   following the first anniversary of the date of reporting for active duty in the prior status, provided they do not previously become entitled to a cash allowance under subsections 2 or 3 of section A hereof.

Section C. Quarterly Maintenance Allowance.

1.The   maintenance allowance prescribed in section A hereof shall be payable on   to:

(a) Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance under subsections 1, 2,  ,  , or 5 of section A, or subsection B5 hereof, or under Executive Order No. 9226 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , commencing with   following the first anniversary of the date on which they were last entitled to such clothing allowance.

(b) Enlisted men on active duty on  , who were not granted a clothing outfit or cash clothing allowance during  , commencing  .

(c) Enlisted men of the   and   reenlisting within   from date of last discharge, enlisted men of the   components transferred to  , and enlisted men of the Regular and   components on active duty transferred to the   or to   and retained on active duty or recalled to active duty within   of release therefrom, at the rate applicable prior to such discharge, transfer, retirement, or release, until entitled to a further clothing allowance.

2. Enlisted men undergoing training leading to a commission, and enlisted men holding temporary appointments to warrant or commissioned rank shall not be entitled to   maintenance allowances. Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance on   shall not be entitled to any   maintenance allowance otherwise due them on that date.

3. The foregoing provisions of this order shall not be applicable to enlisted members of   of   and   of  . Such members shall, however, be entitled to a special   maintenance allowance for clothing in the amount of $12.50, payable on   commencing with   following the first anniversary of the date on which they first report for active duty.

This order shall become effective  .

 

 ,

 .

Related Images

160107-1.jpg

160107-2.jpg
