Executive Order 9095—Establishing   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, by the Trading with the Enemy Act of  , as amended, by  ,  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established in   of the President  , at the head of which shall be an Alien Property Custodian appointed by the President. The Alien Property Custodian shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall approve and in addition shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties. Within the limitation of such funds as may be made available for that purpose,   may appoint assistants and other personnel and delegate to them such functions as he may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this  .

2. All power and authority conferred on the President by Sections 3(a) and 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act of  , as amended, and by   and 302 of Title III of the First War Powers Act,  , approved  , except such powers and authority as were delegated to the Secretary of the   by   issued prior to  , and to   of   by Executive Order No. 8843 of   (which powers and authority shall continue to be vested in and exercised by the Secretary of the   and   respectively), are hereby delegated to and vested in  . The memorandum of  , delegating to the Secretary of the   certain powers and authority under said sections, is hereby revoked and canceled. Any and all action heretofore taken by   of   after  , in pursuance of Executive Order No. 8843 of  , is hereby confirmed and ratified. In the exercise of the authority herein delegated, the Alien Property Custodian shall be subject to the provisions of Executive Order No. 8839 of  , and shall designate a representative to   in accordance with Section 6 thereof.

3. Any property, or interest therein, of any foreign country or a national thereof shall vest in the Alien Property Custodian whenever the Alien Property Custodian shall so direct; and, in the case of any property, or interest therein, subject to the control of the Secretary of the  , when the Alien Property Custodian shall notify the Secretary of the   in writing that he has so directed, the Secretary of the   shall release all control of any such property, or interest therein, to  .

4. Any outstanding order, proclamation, regulation, ruling, license, or instruction issued pursuant to, or relating to the administration of, any power or authority vested in   by this   shall remain in effect unless and until amended or revoked by  .

 

 ,

 .
