Executive  —Amending Executive Order No. 8384 of  , Prescribing Regulations Relating to Annual Leave of Government Employees
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 7 of the act of    , entitled "An Act to provide for vacations to Government employees, and for other purposes" (49 Stat.  ), as amended by the act of   (Public Law 805—77th  ), Executive Order No. 8384 of  , prescribing regulations relating to the   leave of Government employees is hereby amended as follows:

1. Section 1 (f) of the said Executive order is amended to read as follows:

"'Accumulated leave' means the unused   leave not exceeding  , or not exceeding   in case unused   leave has accumulated during the national emergency declared by the President on  , is included, which has accrued during   prior to   in accordance with the provisions of section 2 of these Regulations."

2. Section 2 of the said Executive order is amended to read as follows:

"(a). Permanent employees who have been employed continuously for   or more and who do not contemplate leaving the service during   shall be entitled to current   leave with pay at any time during such calendar year not in excess of  .

"(b). In addition to current   leave, employees may be granted accumulated leave in accordance with the following subsections.

"(c). That part of any current   leave which is not used by an employee in any calendar year shall be accumulated and be available for succeeding   to the extent that it does not exceed  .

"(d). Upon the accumulation of   of leave provided for in the preceding subsection, employees may accumulate not to exceed   of leave during the national emergency declared by the President on  . Such additional accumulation shall not exceed   in any calendar year and shall apply only to   leave which has accrued after  , and has not been used. Such additional leave as may be accumulated by the employee under this subsection shall continue to be available to the employee after the emergency shall have ceased to exist. Departments and agencies having employees subject to the   leave regulations prescribed by the said Executive Order No.  , as herein amended, shall take such steps as may be necessary to adjust the leave records of such employees retroactively so as to make this subsection effective as of  ."

This order shall be published in  .

 

 ,

 .
