Executive Order 8381—  Naval Installations and Equipment
 
 

Whereas

section 1, of the act of  , 52 Stat. 3, provides:

"That, whenever, in the interests of the national defense, the President shall define certain vital military and naval installations or equipment or requiring protection against the general dissemination of information relative thereto, it shall be unlawful to make any photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map, or graphical representation of such vital military and naval installations or equipment without first obtaining permission of the commanding officer of the military or naval post, camp, or station concerned, or higher authority, and promptly submitting the product obtained to such commanding officer or higher authority for censorship or such other action as he may deem necessary. Any person found guilty of a violation of this section shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not  , or by both such fine and imprisonment."

Now therefore by the virtue of the authority vested in me by the foregoing statutory provisions, and in effectuation of the purposes of the said act of  , I hereby define the following as vital military and naval installations or equipment requiring protection against the general dissemination of information relative thereto:

1. All military or naval installations and equipment which are now classified, designated and marked under the authority or at the direction of the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the   as "secret", "confidential", or "restricted", and all military or naval installations and equipment which may hereafter be so classified designated, and marked with the approval or at the direction of the President and located within:

(a) Any military or naval reservation, post, arsenal, proving ground, range, mine field,  ,  , yard, station, district or area.

(b) Any defensive sea area heretofore or hereafter established and existing under authority of section 44 of  , as amended by the act of  , 39 Stat.   (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

(c) Any airspace reservation heretofore or hereafter established and existing under authority of section 4 of the Air Commerce Act of 1926 (44 Stat. 570,  , title  ,   . 174).

(d) Any naval harbor closed to foreign vessels.

(e) Any area required for fleet purposes.

(f) Any commercial establishment engaged in the development or manufacture of military or naval arms munitions, equipment, designs, ships, or vessels for   or  .

2. All military or naval aircraft, weapons, ammunition vehicles, ships, vessels, instruments, engines, manufacturing machinery, tools, devices, or any other equipment whatsoever, in the possession of the   or  , or in the course of experimentation, development, manufacture, or delivery for the   or  , which are now classified, designated, and marked under the authority or at the direction of the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the   as "secret", confidential", or "restricted", and all such articles, materials or equipment which may hereafter be so classified, designated, and marked with the approval or at the direction of the President.

3. All official military or naval books, pamphlets, documents, reports, drawings, photographs, contracts or specifications, which are now marked under the authority or at the direction of the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the   as "secret", "confidential", or "restricted", and all such articles or equipment which may hereafter be so marked with the approval or at the direction of the President.

 

 ,

 .
