Executive Order 6559—Amending the Executive Order of  , and the Proclamation of December 30, 1933, Concerning the Operation of Banks
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 5 (b) of the act of   (40 Stat. L. 411), as amended by the act of  , and by section 4 of said act of  , and by virtue of all other authority vested in me,

I,  , President of  

, do hereby issue the following Executive order:

Section 1. The last two paragraphs of the   order of  , concerning the operation of banks, are amended, effective from the date of this order, by striking out the following:

"nor to engage in any transaction in foreign exchange except such as may be undertaken for legitimate and normal business requirements, for reasonable traveling and other personal requirements, and for the fulfillment of contracts entered into prior to  .

"  bank is authorized and instructed to keep itself currently mformed as to transactions in foreign exchange entered into or consummated within its district and shall report to the Secretary of the   all transactions in foreign exchange which are prohibited."

The Secretary of the   is authorized to amend the licenses heretofore issued with his approval by   banks under the   order of  , by issuing through   banks amendatory licenses removing the restriction upon transactions in foreign exchange contained in the licenses heretofore issued.

 . 2. The proclamation of  , relating to the licensing of banking institutions which are not members of  , is Amended, effective from the date of this order, by striking out the following:

"nor to engage in any transaction in foreign exchange except such as may be undertaken for legitimate and normal business requirements, for reasonable traveling and other Personal requirements, and for the fulfillment of contracts entered into prior to  ."

 . 3. The amendment of such Executive order of  , or of any licenses issued thereunder; and the amendment of such proclamation of  , shall not affect any act done, or any order, decision, or finding made, or relieve any person from the consequences of any unauthorized act committed prior to the date of this   order; nor shall the amendment of the   order of  , or the proclamation of  , relieve any person from the obligation of complying with the terms of the   order of  , relating to the export of coin and currency and transactions in foreign exchange, or the regulations or licenses issued thereunder, or of any other provision of law affecting transactions in foreign exchange.

 

 ,

 .
