Executive Order 8357—Administration of   Reorganization Plan No. II
 
 

Under the authority vested in me by section 1(b) of Part I of Reorganization Plan No. II (effective  , by Public Resolution approved  , 53 Stat.  ), and in effectuation of the provisions of subdivisions (2), (3), and (4) of that section, I hereby prescribe the following regulations pertaining to officers designated by the Secretary of   and the Secretary of Agriculture under the said subdivisions:

1. Officers designated by the Secretary of   and the Secretary of Agriculture under subdivisions (2) and (3), respectively, of the said section 1(b) of Part I of Reorganization Plan No. II may, when acceptable to the Secretary of  , be sent abroad as specialists or technicians for temporary service under the provisions of, and subject to the conditions named in, section 5 of the act of  , 44 Stat.  , and section 2 of the act of  , 46 Stat. 498, as authorized by the said subdivisions (2) and (3), respectively.

2. The Secretary of   shall give suitable commissions to the officers described in paragraph 1 hereof and shall assign them to such offices as may be deemed necessary by him and the Secretary of the department concerned. Such officers, during the active period of their assignment, shall be considered a part of the organization of  , shall assume the status directed by the Secretary of  , and shall, in this respect, be subject to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of  . With the approval of the chief of the office to which they are attached, such officers may request reports from   officers upon matters falling within the jurisdiction of their respective departments. The duties of such officers shall be restricted to the accomplishment of the special missions within the scope of their assignments.

3. The officers designated by the Secretary of   and the Secretary of Agriculture under subdivision (4) of the said section 1(b) of Part I of Reorganization Plan No. II to serve in   as liaison officers shall, when acceptable to the Secretary of  , serve in matters of interest to their respective departments.

 

 ,

 .
