Executive  —Establishing Matagorda Bay Defensive Sea Area
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the provisions of section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), it is hereby ordered as follows:

The following described area is hereby established and reserved, for purposes of national defense, as a defensive sea area, to be known as "Matagorda Bay Defensive Sea Area":

All territorial waters of  ,  , including   but not restricted thereto, together with all approaches thereto and tributaries thereof from the contour line of extreme high water as shown on the   and   chart No.  .

At no time shall vessels or other craft be navigated within such area unless specific permission therefor is first obtained, in the manner prescribed by him, from the Secretary of War or from the officer designated by him. Although such permission has been obtained, a vessel entering or navigating the waters of   does so at its own risk, and shall obey all instructions received from   or other   authority.

The movements of vessels within   shall be subject to supervision, either through surface craft or aircraft.

  authorities shall place at the disposal of the   authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations.

Should any vessel or person within the said Area disregard these regulations, or regulations issued pursuant hereto, or fail to obey an order of   authority, or perform any act threatening the efficiency of   training or defenses or the safety of navigation, or take any action therein inimical to the defense of  , such vessel or person may be subjected to the force necessary to require compliance, and may be liable to prosecution as provided for in section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

The Secretary of War shall be charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations, and he may prescribe such additional regulations as may be necessary to meet local conditions.

 

 ,

 .
