Executive Order  —Establishing Goat Island Migratory Bird Refuge,  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 421, 36 Stat. 847), as amended by the act of   (ch. 369, 37 Stat. 497), Executive Order No.  , of  , temporarily withdrawing for classification and other purposes all vacant, unreserved, and unappropriated public lands in certain  , is hereby revoked insofar as, and to the extent that, it affects the following-described island in  :

 

In  ,   14 W.,  . 35, SE¼, Goat Island, unsurveyed, as shown on   Geological Survey quadrangle  ,  , approximately 21 acres.

And by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to effectuate further the purposes of   (ch. 257, 45 Stat.  ), it is ordered that, subject to valid existing rights, the above-described island, so far as title thereto is in  , be, and it is hereby, withdrawn from settlement, location, sale, entry, or other form of appropriation under the public-land laws and reserved and set apart for the use of   as a refuge and breeding ground for wild birds and animals.

It is unlawful within this reservation: (a) to hunt, trap, capture, willfully disturb, or kill any wild animal or bird of any kind whatever, to take or destroy the nests or eggs of any wild bird, to occupy or use any part of the reservation, or to enter thereon for any purpose, except under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  ; (b) to cut, bum, or destroy any timber, underbrush, grass, or other natural growth; (c) willfully to leave fire or to suffer it to bum unattended near any forest, timber, or other inflammable material; (d) after building a fire in or near any forest, timber, or other inflammable material, to leave it without totally extinguishing it; and (e) willfully to injure, molest, or destroy any property of  .

All persons are hereby informed that sections  ,   (as amended), and 84 (as amended) of the Criminal Code of   (secs. 106, 107, 145, title 18, U.S.C.), and section 14 of   of   ( . 715m, title 16,  ), prescribe penalties for the commission of the offenses enumerated in the preceding paragraph.

This refuge shall be known as  .

 

 ,

 .
