Executive  —Providing for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , and particularly by the Act of  , entitled "An Act to Authorize the President to requisition certain articles and materials for the use of  , and for other purposes," and the Act of  , entitled "An Act to authorize the President of   to requisition property required for the defense of  " (hereinafter referred to as the Acts), and in order to provide for the effective administration of the requisitioning of property required for the defense of  , it is hereby ordered:

1.  , in addition to the responsibilities and duties described in Executive Order No. 8629 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , shall, except as may otherwise be provided hereinafter, exercise the powers and authorities conferred upon the President by the Acts.

2. Whenever   determines, in accordance with the provisions of the Acts, the necessity for requisitioning property, that   may:

a. requisition and dispose of such property on its own account; or

b. provide for the requisitioning and disposition of such property through  ,  , or any other department or agency of the   authorized to engage in the procurement of property of the type subject to requisition under the Acts.

3. Whenever requested by  , any department or agency of the Government is hereby authorized to requisition and dispose of property in accordance with the provisions of the Acts and to make available to   such personnel, including officers of the armed services, as may be necessary to enable that   to carry out its functions under this  .   also are hereby authorized and directed, when requested by, and in accordance with directions of   or the head of any department or agency of the   authorized to requisition property pursuant to this  , to requisition and dispose of property.

4. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Executive Director of  , or the head of such other agency as the President may from time to time designate, may initiate action for the requisitioning of property by submitting proposals for the requisitioning and disposal of such property to  , whenever he determines that:

a. such property is of the type which may be requisitioned under either of the Acts;

b. with respect to proposals for requisitioning property under the Act of  

(1) the use of such property is needed for the defense of  ,

(2) such need is immediate and impending and such as will not admit of delay or resort to any other source of supply,

(3) all other means of obtaining the use of such property for the defense of   upon fair and reasonable terms have been exhausted,

(4) if the property to be requisitioned is machinery or equipment, such machinery or equipment is not in actual use in connection with any operating factory or business or is not necessary to the operation of such factory or business, and

(5) the property to be requisitioned is not a firearm possessed by an individual for his personal protection or sport, the possession of which is not prohibited by existing law;

c. with respect to proposals to requisition property under the Act of  , there exists a necessity for requisitioning the property in accordance with the provisions of section 1 of the Act.

The head of any department or agency acting pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be authorized to requisition and dispose of such property, provided that   determines that the proposed requisitioning and disposal of such property is consistent with the priorities and allocations program and the general production and supply plan of  .

5.   or the head of any department or agency which requisitions property pursuant to this   shall determine the amount of the fair and just compensation to be paid for any property requisitioned pursuant to the Acts, and the fair value of any property returned in accordance with section 2 of the Act of  .

6.   is authorized to establish policies to govern   and the several requisitioning agencies in exercising the authorities and performing the functions vested in them by this  , and to issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary or proper to carry out the provisions of this  .

7. The head of any department or agency of the   authorized to requisition property pursuant to this   may, subject to regulations promulgated by  , require and compel a disclosure of information under section 4 of the Act of  .

8.   shall from time to time, but not less frequently than once  , transmit to the President a report of operations under this  .

9.   or regulations, or any parts thereof, heretofore issued under the Act of  , are hereby rescinded insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this  .

10. This   shall not affect the authority of   with respect to the requisitioning and disposal of vessels under the terms of section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended, or by virtue of Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , issued pursuant to  , 77th  , approved  .

 

 ,

 .
