Executive Order 6433-A—Creation of  
 
 

Whereas

  has declared the existence of an acute national economic emergency which affects the national public interest and welfare, and

Whereas

, in order to meet the said emergency and to provide the relief necessary to protect the general welfare of the people,   has enacted legislation including, among other statutes,   of   (Public No. 67, 73d  ),   of   (Public No. 10,    ) and   of   (Public No. 15,    ); and

Whereas

it is deemed expedient and necessary that an organization be created for the purpose of coordinating and making more efficient and productive the work of the numerous field agencies of the Government established under, and for the purpose of carrying into, effect, the provisions of the said legislation;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid legislation, there is hereby created an organization which shall be known as  , at the head of which shall be an Executive Director who shall be appointed by the President and shall receive a salary to be fixed by him at not to exceed $10,000.00 per annum. The   shall be composed of the following and such other members as the President may designate:

The Secretary of  )

The Secretary of Agriculture

The Secretary of Commerce

The Secretary of  

The Administrator of Agricultural Adjustment

The Administrator of Federal Emergency Relief

The Administrator for Industrial Recovery

The Chairman of  

The Governor of  

A representative of  The members of the   shall act in a capacity advisory to the President and the Executive Director and shall serve without compensation.

The functions and duties of the   shall be prescribed by the President, and such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes for which the   is created shall be prescribed by the Executive Director and approved by the President.

The Executive Director is authorized to execute the functions and to perform the duties vested in the   by the President through such persons as the   Director shall designate, and he is further authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary to supplement, amplify or carry out the purposes and intent of such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by him and approved by the President under the provisions of this  .

The Executive Director may appoint, subject to the approval of the President, without regard to   laws or the Classification Act of  , as amended, fix the compensation and prescribe the duties and authority of such officials and employees, and make such expenditures (including expenditures for personal services, and rent at the seat of the Government and elsewhere, for law books and books of reference, and for paper, binding, and printing) as may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this  . The Executive Director may also, with the consent of any board, commission, independent establishment, or executive department of the Government, including any field service thereof, avail himself of the services of the officials, employees, and the facilities thereof and, with the consent of the   or municipality concerned, may utilize such   and local officials and employees as he may deem necessary.

For the purposes of this  , the sum of $10,000 is hereby allocated to   from the appropriation authorized by Section 220 of the National Recovery Act and made by the Fourth Deficiency Act,  , approved   (Public No. 77,    ).

All volunteer field agencies established under, and for the purpose of effectuating, the provisions of the aforesaid legislation, are hereby abolished, this provision to become effective   from the date of this  ; and thereafter all functions theretofore performed by said agencies and considered necessary by the Executive Director for carrying out the purposes of this   shall be assumed and performed by the  .

 

 ,

 .
