Executive Order  —Establishing a   in  
 
 

Whereas

on  ,   gave its advice and consent to the ratification of the Convention for the creation of an  , which was opened for signature at   on  , and signed on behalf of   on  ; and

Whereas

, pursuant to the foregoing, the said   was ratified by me on  ; and

Whereas

Article X of the Convention, providing for the creation of  , is as follows:

1. The nations subscribing to this Convention shall, on such date as they may deem advisable, and within their respective jurisdictions, organize  . The functions of said Institutes shall, by and large, consist in stimulating interest in and furnishing information about   matters to any persons and to public and private institutions. Such   shall further carry out any studies on these questions that may be of particular interest to the nation concerned.

2.   shall be affiliated to  , to which they shall submit an   report.

3. The financing, organization and regulations of said   shall be matters falling exclusively within the purview of the respective Governments.;

And Whereas

  is charged by law with the supervision and management of all   affairs:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in effectuation of Article X of the said  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   for  , which   shall be affiliated with  .

SECTION 2.   shall:

(a) Initiate and promote collaboration in the fields of   administration and the study of the   among Federal,   and private agencies, learned societies, and scholars in  , and the Inter-  , and through the   with governmental agencies, learned societies and scholars in the other   countries.

(b) Collaborate with  , learned societies, and foundations in the coordination, development, and administration of research projects and studies relating to the  .

(c) Maintain liaison between agencies of   directly or indirectly concerned with   administration or   studies in this or other countries for the purpose of coordinating cooperation by   with other   nations in regard to   matters.

(d) Direct the preparation and publication of materials dealing with   administration in   of interest to the other   nations, and to publish such other materials as may be required in connection with authorized activities.

(e) Assemble and prepare library material and bibliographies dealing with   Problems.

(f) Collaborate with   in planning for  .

(g) Submit an   report to  .

SECTION 3. The Institute shall be managed by a Director who, with other necessary employees, shall be appointed by the Secretary of the  , and its functions shall be administered in  . The   shall use insofar as practicable such informational, fiscal, personnel, and other general business services and facilities as may be made available through   or other agencies of the Government.

SECTION 4. There is hereby established a Policy Board of the Institute which shall recommend policies to be followed by the  , and which shall be composed of:

(a) The Commissioner of   Affairs.

(b) Two or more members, who may be public officers or private citizens, to be appointed by the Secretary of the  , at least one of whom shall be an  .

(c) One representative designated by the Secretary of  .

(d) One representative designated by the Secretary of Agriculture.

(e) One representative designated by  .

(f) One representative designated by  .

In addition to the foregoing, one representative may be designated as a member of the   by each of the following organizations:

 .

 .

 .

SECTION 5. The Chairman of the  , who shall be designated by the Secretary of the  , shall call meetings of the  , and, subject to the approval of the  , may establish advisory committees and may designated, as affiliates of the  , learned societies and other organizations concerned with the study of the   and with   welfare.

SECTION 6. The members of the   and the advisory committees may be reimbursed for necessary traveling expenses and subsistence, as provided by law.

 

 ,

 .
