Executive  —Regulations To Give Effect to Articles I and II of the Convention Providing for the Recovery and Return of Stolen or  ,   or Component Parts of Any of Them, Concluded on  , Between   and  
 
 

Whereas

the Convention for the recovery and return of stolen or embezzled motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes, or the component parts of any of them, between   and  , concluded on  , and proclaimed by the President of  , on  , reads as follows:

ARTICLE I.

Whenever the Government of the United Mexican States through its   in   shall so request    , that   will use every proper means to bring about the detention of alleged stolen or embezzled motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes or the component parts of any of them.

The request of the   shall be accompanied by documents legally valid in   States supporting the claim of the person or persons interested to the property the return of which is requested.

After the property shall have been detained, and in the absence of evidence conclusively controverting the proof just before mentioned, it will be delivered to the person or persons designated for such purpose by the   in   of  .

ARTICLE II.

Whenever the Government of   through its   in   shall so request  , that   will use every proper means to bring about the detention of alleged stolen or embezzled motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes or the component parts of any of them.

The request of the   shall be accompanied by documents legally valid in   supporting the claim of the person or persons interested to the property the return of which is requested.

After the property shall have been detained, and in the absence of evidence conclusively controverting the proof just before mentioned, it will be delivered to the person or persons designated for such purpose by the   in   of  .

ARTICLE III.

When the stolen or embezzled property is held as evidence in a criminal case, in the country where recovered, such detention shall not exceed   from the date of the presentation to   or  , as the case may be, of the official request for the return of the property.

ARTICLE IV.

The High Contracting Parties will extend all necessary customs and other facilities in order that the person or persons on whose behalf the return has been made shall receive the stolen property and return with it to the territory of the country from which the request emanated.

ARTICLE V.

The High Contracting Parties will not assess any duties, fines or other monetary penalties upon the property detained and returned under the terms and provisions of this Convention. All expenses incident to the return and delivery of the property to the requesting country shall be borne by the person or persons receiving the vehicles or their component parts and such person or persons shall have no claim for compensation against the detaining authorities for damages to the property in connection with its seizure, detention and storage.

ARTICLE VI.

The High Contracting Parties will ratify this Convention in accordance with the provisions of their respective   and the exchange of ratifications shall take place in   as soon as possible.

This Convention shall remain in force for   from the date of exchange of ratifications. If upon the expiration of   notice is not given by either   of the desire to terminate the same, it shall continue in force until   after either party shall have given notice to the other of the desire to terminate it.

In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed and affixed their seals to this Convention.

Done in duplicate, in English and Spanish, at  ,   one thousand nine hundred and thirty six.

Josephus   [seal]

  Hays [seal]

Whereas

it is desirable that uniform regulations should be established by   and   to give effect to the provisions of   II of the Convention; and

Whereas

the following regulations have been agreed upon by representatives of the two Governments and have been submitted to me for approval on the part of  :

ARTICLE I.

Whenever, in accordance with the provisions of Article I of the Convention,   shall request the detention in   of alleged stolen or embezzled motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes, or the component parts of any of them, the request shall be accompanied by documents legally valid in the .United   States. The said documents shall be as follows: (1) the original or a certified copy of the sales or conditional sales contract and where registration of title is required by law the certificate of such registration of title; (2) the original or a certified copy of the official registration card; (3) not more than three affidavits identifying the claimant as the owner of the legal or equitable title, or both, to the property alleged to have been stolen or embezzled; (4) the original or a certified copy of any assignment of the property by the insured to the insurer pursuant to a contract of insurance in force at the time the theft or embezzlement was committed.

ARTICLE II.

Whenever, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Convention,   shall request the detention in   of alleged stolen or embezzled motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes, or the component parts of any of them, the request shall be accompanied by documents legally valid in  . The said documents shall be as follows: (1) the original or a certified copy of the sales or conditional sales contract and where registration of title is required by law the certificate of such registration of title; (2) the original or a certified copy of the official registration card; (3) not more than three affidavits identifying the claimant as the owner of the legal or equitable title, or both, to the property alleged to have been stolen or embezzled; (4) the original or a certified copy of any assignment of the property by the insured to the insurer pursuant to a contract of insurance in force at the time the theft or embezzlement was committed.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , considering it expedient and necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of the said  , that uniform regulations for that purpose be adopted by the two Governments, do hereby approve the foregoing regulations.

This Order shall become effective on  .

 

 ,

 .
