Executive Order 9383—  in   and  
 
 

Whereas

it is desirable in the interest of economy, consistent programs, and effective administration to coordinate to the greatest possible extent the policies, plans, and activities of all Federal civil agencies in   and  ; and

Whereas

section 87 of the act of  , 32 Stat. 712, provides that the business assigned to   "* * * shall embrace all matters pertaining to the civil government in the island possessions of   subject to the jurisdiction of  "; and the functions conferred upon   pertaining to   were transferred from   to   and Island Possessions in   Order No.   of  , issued pursuant to section 16 of the Reorganization Act of   (47 Stat.  ); and

Whereas

section 11 of the act of  , 39 Stat. 955, provides that all reports required by law to be made by the Governor or heads of   to any official of   shall be made to   of the Government of   to be designated by the President, and authorizes the President to place all matters pertaining to the government of   in the jurisdiction of such  ; and

Whereas

section 39 of the act of  . 49 Stat.  , authorizes the President to place all matters pertaining to the government of   under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the aforesaid acts, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Each Federal civil agency performing services in   or in   shall make current reports to the Secretary of the   concerning the work of such agency in such manner and form and at such times as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the  .

2. The Secretary of the   shall make such recommendations to the heads of Federal civil agencies so reporting as may in his Judgment serve to correlate the work of such agencies in   and in  , eliminate unessential   activities, assist insular agencies to assume increasing responsibility in civil administration, meet more efficiently the needs of the people of   and   for essential Federal services, and implement the policies of   with respect to its island possessions.

3. The Secretary of the   shall from time to time report to the President and to the   concerning the actions taken pursuant to this order.

4. This order shall not be applicable to    , United States Attorneys, and  .

 

 ,

 .
