Executive  —Establishing   and Providing for a Preliminary Investigation of International Rapids Section,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Act entitled "An Act making appropriations for   and   for  , and for other purposes," approved  Pub. No. 588,  .), and by the Military Appropriation Act,  , approved   (Pub. No. 611,  .), and as President of  , and in order to provide for emergencies affecting the national security and defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established  , consisting of  , Chairman of  , as chairman;  , Assistant Secretary of  ; Brigadier General   of  ,  ,   and  , representative of  . It shall be the duty of the   to advise the President with respect to the matters hereinafter set forth, and to perform such other functions as the President may determine.

2.   and  ,  , are authorized, empowered, and directed —

(a) To make such preliminary investigations as   may consider appropriate or necessary with respect to development of navigation and hydroelectric power in   of the St. Lawrence River, including, among other things, (1) preliminary investigations of the potential dam site by means of core borings, test pits, soil analyses, etc., (2) preliminary surveys of the lands necessary for such development, and investigation of the titles to such lands, and (3) preparation of preliminary plans and specifications.

(b) To make periodic reports, with recommendations to the President, of the results of the aforesaid investigations.

(c) To consult and cooperate with appropriate agencies of  .

3. In the performance of their functions and duties under this order   and  ,  , may avail themselves of the services, records, reports, and information of the   departments and other agencies of the Government.

4.   and  ,  , shall have authority to appoint, without regard to the civil service laws, such officers, experts, and employees as they may deem necessary to carry out their functions under this order, and to prescribe their functions, duties, responsibilities and tenure.

 

 ,

 .
