Executive Order 6878—Rules and Regulations for the Cotton, Silk and Wool Textile Work Assignment Boards
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act (Chapter 90, 48 Stat. 195,  . 15 U.S.C. #701), and under   for  ,   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Sec. 1.   shall appoint a single individual as common chairman of  ,   and  . All general rules and regulations involving products manufactured under more than one of the above Codes shall be jointly considered by the Work Assignment Boards for those Codes.

 . 2. The Cotton, Silk and Wool Textile Work Assignment Boards shall study the actual operation of the stretch-out (or specialization) system in a number,of representative plants, including such plants as may be selected respectively by   affected and by   and such other plants as the   may themselves select either upon or without nomination of interested parties. The   shall, after consultation with the employers and employees in the respective industries, and their representatives, prepare, and before  , submit to the President, recommendations for a permanent plan for regulation of work assignments in the respective industries. Such recommendations, if adopted in accordance with  , shall become effective as therein provided. Such recommendations, unless good cause is shown to the contrary, shall include, among other provisions, substantially the following principles:

(a) No employer shall increase the work assignments of any class of work until he has secured authorization therefor from the district impartial chairman (appointed by  ) of the District in which the mill operates. The district impartial chairman shall authorize extensions of work assignments only if the following conditions have been complied with:

(i) The employer has filed with the district impartial chairman and with the representatives of the employees affected a petition for authorization of extension of work assignments. The petition shall include a sworn statement on a form to be provided by   indicating the conditions which have been established at the mill as the basis for extension.

(ii) A period of   has elapsed since the filing of the petition.

(iii) Either (a) the representatives of labor affected have not filed a protest to the proposed extension before     period, or (d) if such protest has been filed, there has been a public hearing, with such investigation by the district impartial chairman or liis agents as he may deem advisable, and the impartial chairman finds that the conditions which have been maintained throughout the   period justify the extension.

The fact that any employer has failed to maintain any of the conditions set forth in the statement accompanying the petition on which the existing work assignment was authorized shall be ground for the denial of the petition.

(b) The district impartial chairman, on petition by the representatives of any employees affected, shall investigate the justifiability of existing labor assignments, and if he finds any assignment involves excessive efforts by the workers, shall require the employer to reduce such assignment.

(c) Decisions of the district chairman rendered under the above provisions shall be subject to appeal to  , whose decision shall be final.

 . 3.   shall provide funds for, and maintain administrative supervision over the several  .

 

 ,

 .
