Executive Order  —Transfer of Lands From   to Other National Forests in the State of Idaho
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (30 Stat. 11,  , title 16,  ,  . 473), and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that lands within  , in  , be, and they are hereby, transferred as follows:

FROM THE SELWAY TO  

All lands lying to the north and east of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point on the  -Idaho State line at the first angle post on the 295 mile and identified as Blodgett Mountain; thence in a westerly direction along the hydrographic divide between   drainage on the north and the Dead Elk Creek drainage on the south to  ; thence south-westerly down the hydrographic divide just east of Jeanette Creek to the mouth of said creek; thence westerly and southerly down Moose Creek to the mouth of Cedar Creek; thence due west approximately 2 miles to an intersection with  ; thence northerly along said ridge to bench mark no. 7565; thence northwesterly along the hydrographic divide at the head of   and tributaries, passing through   to  ; thence along the hydrographic divide at the head of   drainage to  ; thence in & northwesterly direction along the hydrographic divide immediately north and east of   and  , respectively, to the mouth of Sponge Lake Creek; thence down the Lochsa River to the mouth of  ; thence northwesterly along the hydrographic divide just west of  , passing over  , to an intersection with the main hydrographic divide between the   drainage on the south and North Fork Clearwater River drainage on the north at bench mark no.  , which is in approximately  . 1, unsurveyed  .

FROM THE SELWAY TO THE BITTERROOT NATIONAL FOREST

All lands lying south and east of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point on the  -Idaho State line at the first angle post and the Dead Elk Creek drainage on the south to  ; thence south-westerly down the hydrographic divide just east of Jeanette Creek to the mouth of said creek; thence westerly and southerly down Moose Creek to the mouth of Cedar Creek; thence due west approximately 2 miles to an intersection with  ; thence northerly along said ridge to bench mark no. 7565; thence northwest along the hydrographic divide at the head of   drainage to the saddle or pass at the head of   in approximately  . 27, unsurveyed  ; thence southwesterly down   to the mouth of  ; thence westerly up   to the mouth of  ; thence southerly in a direct line to  ; thence southerly along the hydrographic divide just east of the Three Link Creek drainage which includes   to the mouth of Three Link Creek; thence up the Selway River to the mouth of  ; thence southeasterly up the hydrographic divide just east of   to an intersection with   at a point approximately on the unsurveyed section line between secs. 3 and 4 of unsurveyed T. 31 N.,   12 E., Boise meridian; thence southwesterly along said ridge and easterly along the hydrographic divide at the head of   to Wylies Peak; thence southerly in a direct line to the mouth of the North Fork of Goat Creek; thence easterly down Goat Creek to the mouth of  ; thence south-easterly in a direct line to  ; thence southeasterly in a direct line to the mouth of  ; thence  ° E. to an intersection with  , which ridge is the hydrographic divide between Eagle Creek on the east and   on the west; thence southwesterly along   and Three   to an intersection with the hydrographic divide between tributaries of   and Eagle Creek on the north and   and   on the south.

FROM THE SELWAY TO THE  

All lands lying to the north and west of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point approximately on the section line between secs. 32 and  , T. 35 N., R. 7 E., Boise meridian, on the hydrographic divide between the   drainage on the west and the Lochsa River drainage on the east, where the hydrographic divide between the Fish   drainage on the north and the Canyon Creek drainage on the south intersect said hydrographic divide; thence easterly along the hydrographic divide between the Fish   drainage on the north and the Canyon Creek,  , and   drainages on the south to  , passing over   and  ; thence southeasterly down the hydrographic divide just south of Snowshoe Creek to the mouth of said creek; thence southeasterly in a direct line to  ; thence southeasterly along the hydrographic divide between the Boulder Creek drainage on the north and the Old Man Creek drainage on the south to  ; thence southeasterly along the hydrographic divide between the Rhoda Creek drainage on the east and the Old Man Creek drainage on the west to  ; thence easterly in a direct line to  ; thence down   to its junction with  ; thence down   to its junction with  ; thence up   to an intersection with the hydrographic divide at the head of this drainage in approximately  . 27 of unsurveyed  ; thence northwesterly along said divide, passing through   to  ; thence along the hydrographic divide at the head of   drainage to  ; thence in a general northwesterly direction along the hydrographic divide immediately north and east of   and  , respectively, to the mouth of Sponge Lake Creek; thence down the Lochsa River to the mouth of  ; thence northwest along the hydrographic divide just west of  , passing over  , to an intersection with the main hydrographic divide between the   drainage on the south and   drainage on the north at bench mark no.   in approximately  . 1 of unsurveyed T. 36 N.,   10 E., Boise meridian.

FROM THE SELWAY TO THE NEZPERCE NATIONAL FOREST

All land lying south and west of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point approximately on the section line between secs. 32 and  , T. 35 N., R. 7 E., Boise meridian, on the hydrographic divide between the   drainage on the west and the Lochsa River drainage on the east, where the hydrographic divide between the Fish   drainage on the north and the Canyon Creek drainage on the south intersect said bydrographic divide; thence easterly along the hydrographic divide between the Fish   drainage on the north and the Canyon Croek,  , and   drainages on the south to  , passing over   and  ; thence southeasterly down the hydrographic divide just south of Snowshoe Creek to the mouth of said creek; thence southeasterly in a direct line to  ; thence southeasterly along the hydrographic divide between the Boulder Creek drainage on the north and the Old Man Creek drainage on the south to  ; thence south-easterly along the hydrographic divide between the Rhoda Creek drainage on the east and the Old Man Creek drainage on the west to  ; thence easterly in a direct line to  ; thence down   to its junction with  ; thence down   to the mouth of  ; thence southerly in a direct line to  ; thence southerly along the hydrographic divide just east of the Three Link Creek drainage which includes   to the mouth of Three Link Creek; thence up the Selway River to the mouth of  ; thence southeasterly up the hydrographic divide just east of   to an intersection with   at a point approximately on unsurveyed section line between secs. 3 and 4 of unsurveyed T. 31 N.,   12 E., Boise meridian; thence southwesterly along said ridge and easterly along the hydrographic divide at the head of   to Wylies Peak; thence southerly in a direct line to the mouth of  ; thence easterly down Goat Creek to the mouth of  ; thence southeasterly in a direct line to  ; thence southeasterly in a direct line to the mouth of  ; thence  ° E. to an intersection with  , which ridge is the hydrographic divide between Eagle Creek on the east and   on the west; thence southwesterly along   and Three   to an intersection with the hydrographic divide between tributaries of   and Eagle Creek on the north and Bargamin Creek and   on the south.

It is not intended by this order to give any public lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status nor to remove any lands from a national-forest status.

The lands above described comprise all of what hitherto has been designated as  , and the effect of the transfers herein ordered is to discontinue   as a separate administrative entity.

 

 ,

 
