Executive Order 6882—Transfer of Lands from the   to   and from the   to  ,  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (30 Stat. 11,  ,  , title 16,  . 473), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that all lands in   as defined by proclamation of   (36 Stat.  ), lying to the west and south of the following-described land be, and they are hereby, transferred to and made a part of   as defined by proclamation of   (43 Stat.  ):

Beginning on the south line of  . 15, T. 21 N.,  , at the point where   and   intersects said section line; thence in a southeasterly direction along said railroad line to its point of intersection with the south line of  . 30 in T. 20 N., R. 1 W.; thence easterly to the northeast corner of  .  , T. 20 N., R. 1 E.; thence south to   corner of  . 6, T. 19 N., R. 1 E.; thence east to   corner of  . 4, said township; thence south to the southeast corner said  . 4; thence east to the northeast corner  . 12, said township; thence south to the southeast corner said  . 12; thence east to the northeast corner  . 17 of T. 19 N., R. 2 E.; thence south to   corner of  . 20, said township; thence east to   corner  . 24, said township; thence south to the southeast corner said  . 24; thence east to the northeast corner  . 28 of T. 19 N., R. 3 E.; thence south to the southeast corner, said section; thence east to the northeast corner  .  , said township; thence north to the northwest corner of  . 25, said township; thence east to the northeast corner of  . 30, T. 19 N., R. 4 E.; thence north to the northwest corner of  . 17, said township; thence east to  ; all   and   meridian.

It is further ordered that all lands in   as defined by said proclamation of   (43 Stat.  ), lying to the south and east of the following-described line be, and they are hereby, transferred to   as described by proclamation of   (43 Stat.  ):

Beginning at a point on the east boundary of  . 1, T. 10 N., R. 3 E.,   and   base and meridian, where the hydrographic divide between  , Indian Creek, and   on the north, and   on the south, intersects said section line; thence in a northeasterly direction along said hydrographic divide to the summit of  ; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of  ; thence continuing southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of  ; thence in a northeasterly direction following the divide between   on the north and the headwaters of Tangle Creek and   on the south to the summit of Pine Mountain; thence in a northerly direction following the divide between   on the west and   on the east to the head of the divide between   on the south and Cold Water Creek on the north; thence northeasterly along a spur of the divide between Cold Water Creek and   through The Cedars, to the Verde River at a point approximately in latitude 34°22'40" and longitude lll°44'40".

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is not intended by this order to give any publicly owned lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status, or to remove any publicly owned lands from a national-forest status.

 

 ,

 .
