Executive Order  —Establishing   of the President and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and  , and in order to effectuate the purposes of the Reorganization Act of 1939, Public No. 19, Seventy-sixth  , approved  , and of Reorganization Plans Nos. I and II submitted to the   by the President and made effective as of  , by Public Resolution No. 2, Seventy-sixth  , approved   by organizing   of the President with functions and duties so prescribed and responsibilities so fixed that the President will have adequate machinery for the administrative management of   of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

I

There shall be within   of the President the following principal divisions, namely: (1)  , (2)  , (3)  , (4)  , (5)  , and (6) in the event of a national emergency, or threat of a national emergency, such office for emergency management as the President shall determine.

II

The functions and duties of the divisions of   of the President are hereby defined as follows:

1.

 .

—In general, to serve the President in an intimate capacity in the performance of the many detailed activities incident to his immediate office. To that end,   shall be composed of the following principal subdivisions, with particular functions and duties as indicated:

(a)

The Secretaries to the President.

—To facilitate and maintain quick and easy communication with the  , the individual members of the  , the heads of executive departments and agencies, the press, the radio, and the general public.

(b)

The Executive Clerk.

—To provide for the orderly handling of documents and correspondence within  , and to organize and supervise all clerical services and procedure relating thereto.

(c)

The Administrative Assistants to the President.

—To assist the President in such matters as he may direct, and at the specified request of the President, to get information and to condense and summarize it for his use. These Administrative Assistants shall be personal aides to the President and shall have no authority over anyone in any department or agency, including   of the President, other than the personnel assigned to their immediate office. In no event shall the Administrative Assistants be interposed between the President and the head of any department or agency, or between the President and any one of the divisions in   of the President.

2.

 .

—(a) To assist the President in the preparation of the   and the formulation of the fiscal program of the Government.

(b) To supervise and control the administration of the  .

(c) To conduct research in the development of improved plans of administrative management, and to advise the executive departments and agencies of the Government with respect to improved administrative organization and practice.

(d) To aid the President to bring about more efficient and economical conduct of Government service.

(e) To assist the President by clearing and coordinating departmental advice on proposed legislation and by making recommendations as to Presidential action on legislative enactments, in accordance with past practice.

(f) To assist in the consideration and clearance and, where necessary, in the preparation of proposed Executive orders and proclamations, in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No. 7298 of  .

(g) To plan and promote the improvement, development, and coordination of Federal and other statistical services.

(h) To keep the President informed of the progress of activities by agencies of the Government with respect to work proposed, work actually initiated, and work completed, together with the relative timing of work among the several agencies of the Government; all to the end that the work programs of the several agencies of   of the Government may be coordinated and that the monies appropriated by the   may be expended in the most economical manner possible with the least possible overlapping and duplication of effort.

3.

 .

—(a) To survey, collect data on, and analyze problems pertaining to national resources, both natural and human, and to recommend to the President and the   long-time plans and programs for the wise use and fullest development of such resources.

(b) To consult with  , regional, state, local, and private agencies in developing orderly programs of public works and to list for the President and the   all proposed public works in the order of their relative importance with respect to (1) the greatest good to the greatest number of people, (2) the emergency necessities of the Nation, and (3) the social, economic, and cultural advancement of the people of  .

(c) To inform the President of the general trend of economic conditions and to recommend measures leading to their improvement of stabilization.

(d) To act as a clearing house and means of coordination for planning activities, linking together various levels and fields of planning.

4.

 .

—In accordance with the statement of purpose made in the message to   of  , accompanying Reorganization Plan No. I, one of   to the President, authorized in the Reorganization Act of 1939, shall be designated by the President as   for   and shall be in charge of  . The functions of this office shall be:

(a) To assist the President in the better execution of the duties imposed upon him by the provisions of the Constitution and the laws with respect to personnel management, especially the Civil Service Act of  , as amended, and the rules promulgated by the President under authority of that Act.

(b) To assist the President in maintaining closer contact with all agencies dealing with personnel matters insofar as they affect or tend to determine the personnel management policies of   of the Government.

5.

 .

—(a) To provide a central clearing house through which individual citizens, organizations of citizens,   or local governmental bodies, and, where appropriate, agencies of   may transmit inquiries and complaints and receive advice and information.

(b) To assist the President in dealing with special problems requiring the clearance of information between   and local Governments and private institutions.

(c) To collect and distribute information concerning the purposes and activities of executive departments and agencies for the use of the  , administrative officials, and the public.

(d) To keep the President currently informed of the opinions, desires, and complaints of citizens and groups of citizens and of   and local Governments with respect to the work of Federal agencies.

(e) To report to the President on the basis of the information it has obtained possible ways and means for reducing the cost of the operation of the Government.

III

The Bureau of the Budget,  , and   shall constitute the three principal management arms of the Government for the (1) preparation and administration of the   and improvement of administrative management and organization, (2) planning for conservation and utilization of the resources of the Nation, and (3) coordination of the administration of personnel, none of which belongs in any department but which are necessary for the over-all management of   of the Government, so that the President will be enabled the better to carry out his Constitutional duties of informing the   with respect to the state of the Union, of recommending appropriate and expedient measures, and of seeing that the laws are faithfully executed.

IV

To facilitate the orderly transaction of business within each of the five divisions herein defined and to clarify the relations of these divisions with each other and with the President, I direct that  ,  ,  , and   shall respectively prepare regulations for the governance of their internal organizations and procedures. Such regulations shall be in effect when approved by the President and shall remain in force until changed by new regulations approved by him. The President will prescribe regulations governing the conduct of the business of the division of  .

V

The Director of   shall prepare a consolidated budget for   of the President for submission by the President to the  .  , pursuant to the regular request issued by  , each division of   of the President shall prepare and submit to the   estimates of proposed appropriations for the succeeding  . The form of the estimates and the manner of their consideration for incorporation in the   shall be the same as prescribed for other Executive departments and agencies.

  shall likewise perform with respect to the several divisions of   of the President such functions and duties relating to supplemental estimates, apportionments, and budget administration as are exercised by it for other agencies of  .

VI

Space already has been assigned in   and  , adjacent to  , sufficient to accommodate   with its various divisions (including  ), the central office of  ,  , and the Administrative Assistants to the President, and although for the time being, a considerable portion of the work of   and all of that of   will have to be conducted in  , if and when the   makes provision for the housing of   in a building appropriate to its function and dignity and provision is made for the other agencies now accommodated in   and  , it then will be possible to bring into this building, close to  , all of the personnel of   of the President except  .

This Order shall take effect on  .

 

 ,

 .
