Executive Order 7715—Prescribing Regulations for Carrying Into Effect in   Certain Provisions of the Marihuana Tax Act of  
 
 

Whereas

section 15 of the Marihuana Tax Act of  , approved   (Public, No. 238, 75th  ), provides, in part:

"The President is hereby authorized and directed to issue such Executive orders as will carry into effect in   the intent and purpose of this Act by providing for the registration with appropriate officers and the imposition of the special and transfer taxes upon all persons in   who import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, prescribe, administer, or give away  ."

And Whereas

it is desired that the Governor of   and   of   shall, in connection with the Marihuana Tax Act of  , perform duties in   analogous to those performed in the continental   by the Secretary of the   and his subordinates:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the statutory provisions above set out it is hereby ordered as follows:

Sec. 1. In enforcing the provisions of the Marihuana Tax Act of  ,   of   shall perform in   administrative duties like those   and collectors of internal revenue are required to perform in the continental  , and the Governor of   shall perform duties in   like those the Commissioner of Narcotics is required to perform in the continental  .

 . 2. On and after  , no person in   shall import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, prescribe, administer, give away, or acquire   unless he shall have complied with the provisions of the said Act in the manner provided for in this   and regulations issued pursuant thereto.

 . 3. Every person in   who by the terms of the said Act would be required if located within the continental   to register with the collector of internal revenue of his district, his name or style and his place or places of business, shall register the like information with   of   on forms to be prescribed by the Governor of  . At the time of such registry and on or before   annually thereafter, every person in   who imports, manufactures, produces, compounds, sells, deals in, dispenses, prescribes, administers, or gives away   shall pay to   of   special taxes at the rates provided for in section 2 of the said Act:

Provided, however

, that any person in   who would not be required if located within the continental   to register or pay a special tax shall not be required to register or pay the special taxes as herein provided.

 . 4. The Commissioner of Finance of  , with the approval of the Governor of  , shall cause suitable order forms and copies to be prepared for sale to persons as required by section 6(a) of the Act. The price of the order form as sold by   of   under section 6(c) of the Act shall be two cents for the original and one copy. The Commissioner of Finance shall furnish appropriate stamps to represent the payment of the transfer tax levied by section 7 of the said Act. Such stamps shall be provided by   of   upon requisition.

 . 5. The Governor of   may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry into full force and effect the provisions of the said Act and this  . In prescribing such regulations, the regulations prescribed by   and approved by the Secretary of the   of   shall be followed in so far as they can be made applicable to conditions in  .

 . 6. The Governor of   and any persons acting under his supervision or direction shall have the right to make such inspection and take such action as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of the said Act under this  .

 

 ,

 .
