Executive  —Creation of  , Etc.
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act (ch. 90, 48 Stat. 195,  .  ,  ,  . 701) and under   approved   (Public Res.  ,    ), and in order to effectuate the policy of said   and the purposes of the said  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Sec. 1 There in hereby created in connection with   a board to be known as   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of   of  , Chairman, Mr.   of  , and Hon.   of  . Each member of the   shall receive necessary traveling and subsistence expenses and (unless he holds another federal or state office that makes him ineligible for compensation) $25.00 per diem in addition thereto.

 . 2 The Board is hereby authorized and directed to -

(a)   into the general character and extent of the complaints of the workers in the cotton textile, wool, rayon, silk, and allied industries; and

(b)   into the problems confronting the employers in said industries; and

(c) Consider ways and means of meeting said problems and complaints; and

(d) Exercise in connection with said industries the powers that are authorized to be conferred by the first section of Public Resolution 44,    ; and

(e) Upon the request of the parties to a labor dispute, act as a board of voluntary arbitration or select a person or agency for voluntary arbitration.

 . 3   shall make, through the Secretary of   to the President, a report no later than October 1,  , of its activities, findings and recommendations. The   shall be exempted from making the reports or submitting to the review contemplated by the Executive Order providing for the creation of  , etc. (Executive Order No.  ,  .)

 . 4 The Board is hereby authorized to request existing governmental agencies to render services, furnish information, and otherwise aid the performance of the   in its duties. The   is further authorized, whenever necessary, to appoint additional employees without regard to   laws and the Classification Act of  , as amended. The funds necessary for the payment of the salaries and expenses of the   shall, until other provision is made, be transferred to the   by   from its own funds.

 . 5 The Board shall cease to exist when, in the opinion of the President, it has completed the duties it in authorized to perform.

 

Hyde Park,  

 .
