Executive Order 6299—Revised Code of Fair Competition for the Bituminous Coal Industry
 
 

A Code of Fair Competition for   was approved by an   order dated  , subject to certain conditions including a condition that basic minimum rates not fixed in schedule "A", as attached to the code, might be approved or prescribed by the President at any time prior to the effective date of the code, which provision was also incorporated in the code in said schedule "A". Following said Executive order of   further consideration has been given to said basic minimum rates and said schedule "A" has been revised so as to include additional rates, either agreed upon and submitted for approval, or recommended as those which should be prescribed by the President.

The association and groups of coal producers and individual coal producers submitting said code for the approval of the President, also authorized the Administrator to make such minor changes as might be desirable to improve its language without substantially altering the substance thereof.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by title I of the National Recovery Act, approved  , and otherwise, and upon the recommendation of the Administrator do order that—

(1) Schedule "A", as revised and attached to this order, is hereby approved as the schedule of basic minimum rates approved or prescribed by the President and incorporated in the Code of Fair Competition for  , as provided in article IV of said code.

(2) In order to correct a typographical error in the code and in the   order of   in the two places where the phrase "six members of  " occurs in article VII, section 4, this shall be corrected to read "five members of  ."

(3) In order to provide for the impartial decision of any controversy submitted to   there is hereby imposed, as a condition upon the functioning of said  , that only the impartial and disinterested representatives of the President appointed to the divisional labor boards shall participate in the decisions of  , the other members thereof acting only in an advisory capacity.

(4) Subject to the conditions of the   order of  , and the modification thereof and other provisions of this order, the Code of Fair Competition for   is hereby approved.

 

Approval recommended:

 .

Administrator.

 ,

 .

Related Images

154230-1.jpg

154230-2.jpg
