Executive Order  —    and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , and for the purpose of assuring the most effective prosecution of war procurement and production, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. In addition to the responsibilities and duties described in Executive Order No.  , of  , and in Executive Order No. 9040 of  , the Chairman of  , with the advice and assistance of the members of the  , shall perform the additional functions and duties, and exercise the additional powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President of   by Title III of the Second War Powers Act,  .

2. The Chairman of   may perform the functions and duties, and exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this or any other   through such officials or agencies, including   (created by the Act of  , Public Law 421, 77th  , Second Session), and in such manner as he may determine. In any and all such cases the decision of the Chairman of   shall be final.

3. The Chairman of   is authorized to delegate to   or the Price Administrator such of his functions, duties, powers, authority, or discretion with respect to priorities or rationing, as he may deem to be necessary or appropriate for the effective prosecution of the war; and in the administration or enforcement of any such priorities or rationing authority or any priorities or rationing authority heretofore conferred upon   or upon the Price Administrator by   or by the Chairman of  ,   is hereby authorized:

(a) To exercise all functions, duties, powers, authority, or discretion with respect to such priorities or rationing in the same manner, and to the same degree and extent, as if such functions, duties, powers, authority, or discretion had been conferred upon or transferred to   directly by Executive Order.

(b) To delegate the functions, duties, powers, authority, or discretion mentioned in subparagraphs (a).and (d) hereof, including the authority and power to sign and issue subpoenas, to such person or persons as he may designate or appoint for that purpose, to be exercised by such person or persons in any place and at any time.

(c) To institute civil proceedings in his own name to enforce any such priority or rationing authority or any regulation or order heretofore or hereafter issued, or action taken, pursuant to such authority, and to intervene in any civil proceedings in which any such regulation or order is or could be relied upon as ground for relief or defense or is otherwise involved, in any  , or   court. The Price Administrator shall be represented in any such proceedings by attorneys appoint.   or designated by him.

(d) To exercise, to the extent necessary for the purposes of this  , the functions, duties, powers, authority, or discretion conferred upon the President by paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of section 2 of the Act of   (54 Stat. 676), as amended by the Act of   (Public Law 89, 77th  ) and by Title III of the Second War Powers Act,   (Act of  , Public Law 507, 77th  ).

4. War Production Board Directives No. 1 of   (7 F.R. 562), No. 1A of   (7 F.R. 698), No. 1B of   (7 F.R. 925), No. 1C of February 28,1942 (7  ), and any other authorizations of   or   with respect to priorities or rationing, and all regulations or orders issued, or actions taken, by   or the Price Administrator pursuant to such   or authorizations, are hereby, until withdrawn or superseded, continued in full force and effect, as if issued pursuant to this   or under authority conferred pursuant to this  . No provision of this   shall be construed to impair the right of the Administrator to maintain pending, or to institute, civil proceedings, or to take any other action with respect to violations prior to the date of this Order of any priorities or rationing regulation or order heretofore issued.

 

 ,

 .
