Executive  —Transfer of Functions of the Veterans' Administration Pertaining to Civil Service Retirement Activities to  
 
 

Whereas

section 16 of the act of   (ch. 212, 47 Stat.  ), provides for reorganizations within the executive branch of the Government, requires the President to investigate and determine what reorganizations are necessary to effectuate the purposes of the act, and authorizes the President to make such reorganizations by Executive order; and

Whereas

after investigation I find and declare that the transfer to   of the functions of administration pertaining to the retirement of civil employees of the Government now vested in the Veterans' Administration would be in the public interest and would effectuate the purposes of said section 16;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the aforesaid section 16 of the act of  , it is ordered that the duties, powers, and functions now vested in the   pertaining to the administration of civil service retirement activities under   of   (ch. 349, 46 Stat. 468), as amended, Executive Order No. 5398 of  , and   of   (ch. 375,   Stat.  ), as amended, be, and they are hereby, transferred to and vested in  .

All personnel, records, files, and property, including office furniture and equipment, of the Veterans' Administration employed or used in the discharge of the duties, powers, and functions transferred by this order are hereby transferred to  .

The unexpended balances of appropriations and/or allotments of appropriations now, or which may become, available to the Veterans' Administration for the performance of the duties, powers, and functions transferred by this order shall be transferred to   to such extent as the Director of   may deem necessary, and any remaining balance shall, in accordance with law, be impounded and returned to the  .

This order will become effective in accordance with the provisions of section 1 of title III of the act of   (ch. 3,   Stat.  ):

Provided

, That in case it shall appear to the President that the interests of economy require that the transfer be delayed beyond the date this order is to become effective, he may, in his discretion, fix a later date therefor, and he may for like cause defer such date from time to time.

 

Done in triplicate

 ,

 .
