Executive Order 9334— 
 
 

Executive Order No. 9322 of  , entitled "Centralizing and Delegating Authority with Respect to the Production and  ," is hereby amended to read as follows:

"By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , particularly by  .  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to assure an adequate supply and efficient distribution of food to meet war and essential civilian needs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

"Section 1.   (except  ),  ,  , and  , together with all their powers, functions, and duties, are hereby consolidated within   into  , to be administered under the direction and supervision of a War Food Administrator. The Administrator shall be appointed by the President and shall be directly responsible to him.

" . 2. All powers, functions, and duties of the Secretary of Agriculture (a) under Executive Order No. 9280 of  .  , (b) under  . 9250 of  , (c) which relate to labor and manpower under orders of   Director or the Chairman of  , (d) which relate to or which have heretofore been exercised through or in connection with the agencies, including corporations consolidated by section 1 of this order, and (e) which relate to personnel, property and records transferred by section 3 of this order, are transferred to and shall be exercised and performed by   (in addition to the powers, functions, and duties conferred upon him by Executive Order No. 9328 of  ); but the Secretary of Agriculture shall continue as chairman of the inter-departmental committee set up by section 7 (a) of Executive Order No.  , as a member of   as provided in section 7b of Executive Order No.  , and as the   representative on  .   shall be a member of the said inter-departmental committee, which shall be advisory to him. He shall also be alternate   representative on  .

" . 3. For use in connection with the exercise or performance of the powers, functions, and duties consolidated and transferred by this order, so much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds available to   for such purposes, as the Director of   shall determine, and all of the personnel, property, and records used primarily in the administration of such powers, functions, and duties, are hereby transferred to  .

" . 4. In addition to the powers and authority granted by this order, and in order to carry out its purposes, the Secretary of Agriculture and  , to the extent necessary to enable them to perform their respective duties and functions, shall each have authority to exercise any and all of the powers vested in the other by statute or otherwise; and the exercise of any such power by either of them shall be deemed to be authorized and in accordance with this order, and shall not be subject to challenge by any third party affected by the exercise of the power on the ground that the action taken was within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture rather than  , or vice versa.

" . 5. Any provision of any Executive order or proclamation conflicting with this   order is superseded to the extent of such conflict. All prior directives, rules, regulations, orders, and similar instruments heretofore issued by any Federal agency relating to matters concerning which authority is vested in   by this order shall continue in full force and effect unless and until modified or revoked by orders or directives issued by or under the direction of   pursuant to authority vested in him."

 

 ,

 .
