Executive  —Extending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1 of the Act of  , entitled "Extending the Classified Executive Civil Service of  " (54 Stat.  ), by   (22 Stat. 403), and by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. All offices and positions in the executive civil service of   except (i) those that are temporary, (2) those expressly excepted from the provisions of section 1 of the said Act of  , (3) those excepted from the classified service under   and B of  , and (4) those which now have a classified status, are hereby covered into the classified civil service of the Government.

SECTION 2. Section 1 of this Order shall become effective on  , except that as to positions affected thereby which are vacant at any time after  , and before  , it shall become effective when the vacancies first exist during such period, and appointments to such vacant positions shall be made in accordance with   as amended by section 3 of this  , unless prior express permission is given by   for appointment without regard thereto.

SECTION 3. (a) Upon consideration of the report of   (House Document No. 118, 77th  ) appointed by Executive Order No.   of  , it is hereby found and determined that the regulations and procedures hereinafter prescribed in this section with respect to attorney positions in the classified civil service are required by the conditions of good administration.

(b) There is hereby created in   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) a board to be known as   (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The   shall consist of   of   and   of  , as members ex officio, and nine members to be appointed by the President, five of whom shall be chosen from the chief law officers of the   departments, agencies or corporate instrumentalities of the Government, two from the law-teaching profession, and two from attorneys engaged in private practice. The President shall designate the chairman of  . Five members shall constitute a quorum, and the   may transact business notwithstanding vacancies thereon. Members of the   shall receive no salary as such, but shall be entitled to necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties hereunder.

(c) It shall be the duty of the   to promote the development of a merit system for the recruitment, selection, appointment, promotion, and transfer of attorneys in the classified civil service in accordance with the general procedures outlined in Plan A of the report of  , appointed by Executive Order No.   of  .

(d)  , in consultation with  , shall determine the regulations and procedures under this section governing the recruitment and examination of applicants for attorney positions, and the selection, appointment, promotion, and transfer of attorneys, in the classified service.

(e) The   shall in the manner determined by the   establish a register or registers of eligibles from which attorney positions in the classified service shall be filled: Provided, That any register so established shall not be in effect for a period longer than   from the date of its establishment. Upon request of the  , the   shall designate appropriate regions or localities and appoint regional or local boards of examiners composed of three persons approved by the  , within or without the Federal service, to interview and examine such applicants as the   may recommend.

(f) The number of names to be placed upon any register of eligibles for attorney positions shall be limited to the number recommended by the  ; and such registers shall not be 'ranked according to the ratings received by the eligibles, except that persons entitled to veterans' preference as defined in section i of Civil Service Rule VI shall be appropriately designated thereon.

(g) Any person whose name has been placed upon three registers Of eligibles covering positions of the same grade, and who has not been appointed therefrom, shall not thereafter be eligible for placement upon any subsequently established register covering positions of such grade.

(h) The eligibles on any register for attorney positions shall be apportioned among the several   and Territories and   upon the basis of population as ascertained at the last preceding census, and the   shall certify to the appointing officer for each vacancy all the names on the appropriate register which meet the apportionment requirements: Provided, That whenever the   shall be of the opinion that apportionment of eligibles on any register for attorney positions is not warranted by conditions of good administration, it shall so notify the  , which shall thereafter certify all the persons on such register to the appropriate appointing officer. The appointing officer shall make selections for any vacancy or vacancies in attorney positions from the register so certified, with sole reference to merit and fitness.

(i) Any position affected by this section which is vacant after  , may be filled before available registers have been established pursuant to this section only by the appointment of a person who has passed a noncompetitive examination prescribed by the   with the approval of the  , and such person after the expiration of   from the date of his appointment shall be eligible for a classified civil-service status upon compliance with the provisions of section 6 of Civil Service Rule II, other than those provisions relating to examination.

(j) The incumbent of any attorney position covered into the classified service by section 1 of this   may acquire a classified civil-service status in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of Civil Service Rule II: Provided, That the noncompetitive examination required thereunder shall be prescribed by the   with the approval of the  .

(k) The Commission with the approval of the   shall appoint a competent person to act as Secretary to the  ; and the   shall furnish such further clerical, stenographic, and other assistants as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

(1)   are hereby amended to the extent necessary to give effect to the provisions of this section.

SECTION 4. The noncompetitive examinations prescribed pursuant to sections 3 and 6 of this   and section 2(a) of the said Act of  , shall, among other things, require any person taking such examination to meet such reasonable standards of physical fitness and personal suitability as   may prescribe.

SECTION 5. Persons who on the effective date of section 1 of this   are on furlough or leave without pay from any position covered into the classified service by that section may be recalled to duty within   of the date that they are furloughed or given leave without pay, and may be continued in such positions thereafter but shall not thereby acquire a classified civil-service status. If they are not recalled to duty within the time specified herein, they shall be separated from the service.

SECTION 6. Any person who in order to perform active service with the military or naval forces of   has left, or leaves, a position (other than a temporary position) which is covered into the classified civil service under section 1 of this   shall be reinstated in the department or agency to the position in which he last served or to a position of like seniority, status, and pay in the same department or agency, and upon re instatement thereto may acquire a classified civil-service status: Provided, (1) that he has been honorably discharged from the military or naval service, (2) that he makes application for reinstatement within   of such discharge, (3) that the head of the department or agency concerned recommends within   of his reinstatement that he be permitted to acquire a classified civil-service status and certifies that he has served with merit for  , and (4) that he qualifies in such suitable noncompetitive examination as the   may prescribe.

SECTION 7. Executive  .   of  , is hereby revoked so far as it applies to positions covered into the classified civil service by this  .

 

 ,

 .
