Executive Order 6686—Approval of Code of Fair Competition for the Linseed Oil Manufacturing Industry
 
 

Whereas

, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator of   having rendered their separate reports and recommendations and findings on the provisions of said Code, coming within their respective jurisdictions, as set forth in the Executive Order No. 6182 of  , as supplemented by Executive Order No.  , Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No. 6551 of  ;

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby find that;

1. An application has been duly made, pursuant to and in full compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved  , for my approval of a Code of Fair Competition for the Linseed Oil Manufacturing Industry; and,

2. Due notice and opportunity for hearings to interested parties have been given pursuant to the provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and,

3. Hearings have been held upon said Code, pursuant to such notice and pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and,

4. Said Code of   constitutes a Code of Fair Competition, as contemplated by the Act and complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of the Act, including clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of Title I of the Act; and

5. It appears, after due consideration, that said Code of Fair Competition will tend to effectuate the policy of   as declared in Section 1 of Title I of the Act; and,

6.   after the effective date of this Code, the Code Authority shall submit to the Administrator a study of the hours of labor, rates of pay, and other conditions of employment within this Industry, with the view of revising the wages, hours, and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Code.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby approve said Code of Fair Competition for the Linseed Oil Manufacturing Industry.

 

 ,

 .
