Executive Order 8850—Authorizing   Training Ships
 
 

Whereas

section 2 of the act of   entitled "An Act to,authorize the construction of   cutters necessary in the interest of national defense and for performance of   duties, and for other purposes", approved   (Public Law 178, 77th  ,  ), provides:

" . 2. The President is authorized and empowered, in the interest of the national defense, through  , to purchase, charter, requisition the use of, or the possession of, for the use of   in the training of   cadets and merchant marine personnel, any foreign vessel designed as a merchant marine training ship, which is lying idle in waters within the jurisdiction of  :

Provided

, That the provisions of the Act of   approved   (Public,  , Seventy-seventh  ), except the third and fourth provisos of section 1 thereof, applicable to foreign merchant vessels shall be applicable to any foreign vessel acquired under this section.";

And Whereas

I find that foreign vessels designed as merchant marine training ships lying idle in waters within the jurisdiction of   are necessary, in the interest of the national defense, for the use of   in the training of   cadets and merchant marine personnel:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (hereinafter called the "Commandant") is hereby authorized and empowered, at such time or times and upon such terms and conditions as the   shall deem desirable and conducive to the national defense, to purchase, charter, requisition the use of, or the possession of, any or all foreign vessels designed as merchant marine training ships which are lying idle in waters within the jurisdiction of  , including all tackle, apparel, furniture, spare parts, gear and equipment, and all stores, including fuel, aboard such vessels or appertaining thereto, for the use of   in the training of   cadets and merchant marine personnel.

2. The   is authorized and directed, to such extent and upon such terms and conditions as he shall deem desirable and conducive to the national defense:

(a) To operate any or all of such vessels in the training of   cadets and merchant marine personnel.

(b) To repair, reconstruct, or recondition any or all of such vessels in accordance with the provisions of subsection (f) of section 5 of the act of   approved   (Public Law 101, 77th  ,  ).

(c) To equip and man any or all such vessels, and to do whatever may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of the said act of  , or of this order.

3. The   is directed to determine and make to the owner or owners of any vessel taken pursuant to the provisions hereof, just compensation for such vessel or the use thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the first and second provisos of section 1 of the said act of  .

 

 ,

 .
