Executive Order 7959—Transferring Certain Personnel, Property, and     and   to  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by subsections (a) and (b) of section 203 of the Civil Aeronautics Act of  , approved   (Public No. 706,  ., 3d Sess.), and in order to effectuate the purposes of said Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All officers and employees of   of   and   of   who, at the close of business on  , are (a) in a pay status and whose names appear on the pay roll of their respective bureaus, (b) in a furlough status, and (c) in a when-actually-employed status, are hereby found and determined to have been employed by the Secretary of   and   in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties described in subsection (a) of section 203 of the Civil Aeronautics Act of  ; and all such officers and employees as aforesaid shall be transferred to   as of the beginning of business on  .   and   shall furnish to   and to  , upon the appropriate civil service forms, a record of the officers and employees so transferred.

2. All of the unexpended balances of appropriations for use by the Secretary of Commerce in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties vested in and imposed upon him by the Air Commerce Act of  , as amended (44 Stat. 568;  ,   ed., title  ,  . 171 et seq.), including the unexpended balances of portions of general administrative appropriations which have been allotted by the Secretary of   to  , and by the Secretary of   and   in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties vested in and imposed upon them by the Airmail Act of  , approved  , as amended (48 Stat. 933;  ,   ed.,  . II, title 39,  . 469 et seq.), are hereby found and determined to be necessary for the exercise and performance of the powers and duties of   Authority, the Administrator, and   under the Civil Aeronautics Act of  , and shall be transferred, effective  , to  .   shall assume the encumbrances and obligations outstanding against the funds so transferred and shall liquidate the same from applicable funds as settlements are required.

3. All real and personal property under the control and jurisdiction of   (including, but not limited to, lands, buildings, air navigation facilities, depots, equipment, materials, supplies, office equipment, and all official records) which the records of that   show to have been employed by the Secretary of Commerce in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties vested in and imposed upon him by the Air Commerce Act of  , as amended, and all property (Including, but not limited to, office equipment and official records) under the control and jurisdiction of   and   which the respective records of   and   show to have been employed by the Secretary of   and   in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties vested in and imposed upon them by the Airmail Act of  , approved  , as amended, are hereby found and determined to have been so employed; and all such property as aforesaid shall be transferred to   as of the beginning of business on  .

 

 ,

 .
