Executive Order 6871—Concerning Amendments to the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Garment Industry Approved by Executive Order No. 6828,   
 

Whereas

Executive Order No. 6828, dated  , approved certain amendments to the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Garment Industry, including amendments to   and IV thereof, which latter amendments by their terms were not to become effective until  , and

Whereas

Executive Order No.  , dated  , stayed the effective date of said amendments to   and IV of said Code of Fair Competition to and including  , and directed   to appoint a committee of three impartial persons to hear protests, investigate the facts and report its recommendations concerning said amendments on or before  , and

Whereas

the Cotton Garment Code Authority and various members of  , protestants against said amendments, had stated that if such an impartial committee were appointed to determine the issues involved, said protestants would abide by the conclusions of such committee, and

Whereas

 , pursuant to said Executive Order duly appointed  ,   and  , three impartial persons who had not theretofore formed an opinion concerning the subject matter of said amendments, as such committee, which said committee thereafter heard protests, investigated the facts and on  , did report its recommendations in the premises:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of   of   (ch. 90, 48 Stat. 195), and in order to effectuate the purposes of said title and of my said Executive Order No.  , dated  , I,  , President of  , do hereby approve and adopt the report and recommendations of said committee and do order:

1. That paragraph numbered 1 of Executive Order No.  , dated  , be and it is hereby revoked.

2. That the effective date of said amendments to   and IV of said Code be stayed to and including  , after which date said amendments shall be in full force and effect.

3. That the committee heretofore appointed and constituted by  , consisting of  , Chairman,  , and  , be continued, with instructions further to investigate the protests of the Sheep Lined and   of the Cotton Garment Industry and report its findings and recommendations therein on or before  .

4. That   forthwith appoint a committee of three impartial persons, which committee shall investigate the effects of competition between the products of prison labor and sheltered workshops on the one hand and of the cotton garment industry on the other, study the operation of   especially as to the enforcement of the standards of competition with private industry established therein, and report to   concerning said matters not  .

5. That on or before  ,   report to me as to exceptions to and exemptions from the Code of Fair Competition for the Cotton Garment Industry, as amended, which may have been granted under the provisions of Article XV of said Code as amended.

6. That this   shall be subject to my further orders in the premises.

 

 ,

 .
