Executive Order 9373—Operation of, and   at, the Denison Dam, the Grand River Dam, and   in  ,  , and  
 
 

Whereas

by Executive Order No. 9366 of  , the Secretary of the   was designated as agent for the sale and distribution of electric power and energy generated at the Denison Dam Project; and

Whereas

it is essential that there be unified administrative control of the disposition of electric energy generated at this and the nearby Grand River Dam and Norfork Dam Projects, under Federal control, and that provision be made for the integrated operation of these projects and for the most efficient disposition of power therefrom:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , particularly by section 16 of the Federal Power Act (41 Stat.  ), Title I of the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), and by   and III of the Second War Powers Act,   (56 Stat. 176), and as Commander in Chief of the   and   and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All functions, powers, and duties vested in   by Executive Order No. 8944 of  , relating to the Grand River Dam Project, and by Executive Order No. 9353 of  , relating to  , are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the  , to be exercised through such person or persons as he may designate.

2. All functions, powers, and duties vested in   with respect to (1) the Grand River Dam Project (  Oklahoma  -P-DS); (2) the acquisition of an additional five feet of reservoir storage for the Grand River Dam Project (Federal List No. 584,  ); and (3) the administration, construction, and operation of transmission or other facilities as a part of or in connection with Grand River ( ) project operations, are hereby transferred to and vested in the Secretary of the  , to be exercised through such person or persons as he may designate.

3. All property, assets (including the bonds of the Grand River Dam Authority held by  ), contracts, accounts, and records used primarily by   in the administration of any function, power or duty transferred by this order, and so much of the personnel and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations and other funds, available to   for use in carrying out such functions, powers, and duties, as the Director of   may determine, are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the   for use in the administration of such functions, powers, and duties.

4. The Secretary of the  , acting for and on behalf of  , through such person or persons as he may designate, is hereby authorized and directed, to such extent and in such manner as in his judgment the public interest may require, (a) to integrate the power facilities of the Grand River ( ),  , and   (including the appurtenant transmission, distribution, marketing, and other facilities); (b) to interconnect the projects with other utility systems in the area and to interchange electric energy with and purchase electric energy from such systems; and (c) to sell and dispose of electric energy to war plants and establishments, public bodies and  , and other persons, in that order of preference, at such rates as may be approved by  . Any of the functions or powers vested in the Secretary of the   with respect to the Grand River,  , or   may be exercised by him in carrying out the integrated operation of the said projects; and in addition he may exercise such powers and functions, including the acquisition of land or flowage rights and the construction or acquisition of transmission lines and other facilities, as may be necessary or appropriate for the completion and full utilization of the Grand River ( ) Project or for the effective disposition of power and energy available to him.

5. All Executive orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this order are hereby superseded to the extent of such conflict.

6. Part II of Executive Order No.   is hereby revoked.

This order shall become effective  .

 

 ,

 .
