Executive Order 9472—  for the Merchant Marine
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President and as Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a) The Administrator of  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, is hereby authorized to issue a citation as public evidence of deserved honor and distinction to any   ship or to any foreign ship operated by or for the account of   or   which, subsequent to  , or during the present war has served or shall serve in outstanding action against attack or in gallant action in marine disasters or other emergencies at sea.

(b) The Administrator shall award a plaque to any ship so cited; and a replica of such plaque shall be preserved, under such regulations as the Administrator may prescribe, as a permanent historical record.

(c) The Administrator shall also award an appropriate citation ribbon bar to the master and each person serving on board such ship at the time of the action for which citation is made, as public evidence of such honor and distinction: Provided, That whenever such master or person would be entitled hereunder to the award of an additional citation ribbon, a suitable device shall be awarded, in lieu thereof, to be attached to the ribbon originally awarded.

2. (a) There is hereby established  , with accompanying ribbon and appurtenances, for award by the Administrator, under such regulations as he shall prescribe, to any master, officer, or member of the crew of any   ship, or any foreign ship operated by or for the account of   or   who, subsequent to  , or during the present war has been or shall be officially commended by the Administrator for conduct or service of a meritorious character but not of such an outstanding character as would warrant an award of   established pursuant to the act of  , ch. 241,  . 217.

(b) No more than one   shall be awarded to any one persor., but for each succeeding commendation justifying such an award a suitable device may be awarded to be worn with the medal and ribbon.

3. The Administrator is hereby authorized, until   after the termination of the present war, to provide and issue, under such regulations as he may prescribe, a distinctive service ribbon bar to each master, officer, or member of the crew of any   ship who shall have served at any time during the period beginning  , and ending  .

4. In case any person who is entitled to an award under this order dies before the award can be made to him, the award may be made to such representative of the deceased as the Administrator may deem proper.

5. The design of the plaque, medal, and ribbons herein authorized, shall not duplicate the design of any medals or ribbons awarded by the War or  .

6. The Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder and issue such other regulations as may be appropriate to carry out the provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 .
