Executive Order  —Establishing   Bay Defensive Sea Area
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

The following-described area is hereby established and reserved, for purposes of national defense, as a naval defensive sea area, to be known as "Manila Bay Defensive Sea Area":

All territorial waters of Manila Bay,   Islands, and its approaches and tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water as shown on the latest   and  . charts, to:

A line running southwest true from  , in approximate position, Latitude 14°27'40" North, Longitude 120°23'13" East to the seaward limit of territorial waters thence southeasterly along the seaward limit of territorial waters to the parallel of Latitude 14°10'15'' North, thence east along that parallel of Latitude to meet the shore at   in approximate  " North, Longitude 120°34'24" East.

A vessel not proceeding under   or other   authorized supervision, shall not enter or navigate the waters of   Bay Defensive Sea Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within   must be made, preferably by application at   District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs and permission to enter the port shall be requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of the master must be given in the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.

A vessel entering or navigating the waters of   Bay Defensive Sea Area does so at its own risk.

Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering   to obey any further instructions received from  , or other   authority.

A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within  , either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft will be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.

These regulations are subject to amplification by the local   authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.

When a United States Maritime Control Area is established adjacent to or abutting upon the above-established defensive sea area, it shall be assumed that permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas.

Any master of a vessel or other person within the Manila Bay Defensive Sea Area who shall disregard these regulations, or shall fall to obey an order of   authority to stop or heave to, or shall perform any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or shall take any action inimical to the interests of  , may be detained therein by force of arms and shall be liable to attack by   armed forces, and liable to prosecution as provided for in section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

  authorities shall place at the disposal of the   authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations.

The Secretary of the   will be charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.

 

 ,

 .
