Executive  —Prescribing Rules and Regulations Relating to Student-Aid "Projects and to Employment of Youth on Other Projects Under the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of  
 
 

REGULATION NO. 7

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by   of  , approved   (Public Resolutiop No. 11, 74th  ), I hereby prescribe the following rules and regulations relating to student-aid projects and to employment of youth on other projects:

1.

Definition of Student-Aid Projects.

Student-aid projects are hereby defined to be projects financed, in whole or in part, from funds appropriated by   of  , which provide financial assistance to needy young people in amounts which will permit them to continue their education at high schools, colleges, or graduate schools, in exchange for part-time work upon useful projects.

2.

Supervision of Student-Aid Projects.

Student-aid projects shall be supervised by  .

3.

Amount of Aid.

Recipients of student aid shall receive   payments, in the amounts hereinafter prescribed, for   of the school year.

(a) Payments to high school students shall be at a rate not in excess of $6 per month for  .

(b) Payments to college students shall not exceed an average of $15 per month for   and shall not exceed $20 in  .

(c) Payments to graduate students shall not exceed an average of $30 per month for   and shall not exceed $40 in  .

4.

Administration of Student-Aid Projects.

Methods for the selection of eligible students to receive student aid, the character of the work to be performed by the recipients of student aid, and all conditions of employment shall be determined by, or under the direction of, the Executive Director of  .

5.

Employment of Youth on Projects.

Young persons who are eligible for benefits under   may be employed on projects supervised or administered by  . The   earnings to be paid to such young persons for work on such projects, the maximum and minimum number of hours of work, and the conditions of employment shall be determined by   Provided, however, that the mon tidy earnings shall not exceed $25 per month.

6.

Non-application of Regulations Nos. 1, 2, and 3.

The provisions of Regulation No. 1 as amended (Executive Orders Nos.  ,  , and   of  , and  , respectively), Regulation No. 2 as amended (Executive Orders Nos.   and 7125 of June 5 and  , respectively), and Regulation No. 3 (Executive Order No. 7083 of June  ) shall not be applicable to student-aid projects as defined in paragraph 1 or to the employment of young persons under paragraph 5 above.

 

 ,

 .
