Executive Order  —Terminating the National Recovery Administration and Transferring Certain Agencies and Functions Thereof to   and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of   (48 Stat. 195), as amended by   Joint Resolution 113, approved  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   and the office of Administrator thereof are hereby terminated.

2.  ,  , and  , as constituted by Executive Order No. 7075 of  , together with all of their officers and employees, files, records, equipment, and property of every kind, are hereby transferred to  . The Secretary of   is authorized and directed, under the general direction of the President, to appoint, employ, discharge, and fix the compensation and define the duties and direct the conduct of all officers and employees engaged in the administration of the agencies transferred by this   to  , to exercise and perform in connection with the said agencies the functions and duties now exercised and performed, or authorized to be exercised and performed, by  , to report to the President on all matters relating thereto, and to terminate the functions and duties of the said agencies not   April 1, 1936.

3.  , established within   by Executive Order No. 7120 of  , together with all of its officers and employees, files, records, equipment, and property of every kind, are hereby transferred to  . The Secretary of   is authorized and directed, under the general direction of the President, to appoint, employ, discharge, and fix the compensation and define the duties and direct the conduct of all officers and employees as may be engaged in the administration of the said  , to exercise and perform in connection with said   the functions and duties now exercised and performed, or authorized to be exercised and performed, by  , and to report to the President on all matters relating thereto.

4. No person transferred by this   shall by such transfer acquire a civil service status. Any new appointments under this   may be made without regard to  .

5. All Orders and Regulations heretofore issued concerning the administration of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, as amended, are hereby modified to the extent necessary to make this   fully effective.

6. This   shall become effective on  .

 

 ,

 .
