Executive Order  —Amending Schedules A and B of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution, by Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 631), by   of   (22 Stat. 403), and as President of  , Schedules A and B of   are hereby amended to read as follows:

Schedule A—Positions Excepted From Examination Under Section 3, Civil Service Rule II

I. ENTIRE EXECUTIVE CIVIL SERVICE

1. Chaplains.

2. Cooks, when in the opinion of the   it is not expedient to make appointment upon competitive examination; but this paragraph shall not apply to positions of cook at fixed locations, such as hospitals, quarantine stations, or penal institutions.

3. Positions to which appointments are made by the President without confirmation by the  .

4. Special attorneys employed on a temporary basis for specific litigation or other legal work where knowledge of local values or conditions or other specialized qualifications not possessed by the attorneys regularly employed by the department are required for successful results. Such temporary employment shall be only for such time as is required to complete the specific assignment for which the original appointment was approved.

5.  ,  , and   interpreters.

6. Any person receiving from one department or establishment of the Government for his personal salary compensation aggregating not more than $540 per annum whose duties require only a portion of his time, or whose services are needed for very brief periods at intervals, provided that employment under this provision shall not be for job work such as contemplated in section 4 of rule VH3. Appointments under this paragraph for duty in  ,   may be made only with the express prior approval of the   when in the opinion of the   the use of existing registers or the establishment of new registers is impracticable. The name of the employee, designation, duties, rate of pay, and place of employment shall be shown in the periodical reports of changes; and in addition, when payment is not at a per annum rate, the total service rendered and the distribution of such service during   shall be shown in the report of changes at   or when the employee is separated from the service. The additional employment under similar conditions of such a person by another department or establishment of the   will be subject to the approval of the  .

7. Any person employed in a foreign country or in  , or in   when public exigency warrants, or in any island possession of   in the Pacific ocean (except  ), or in  , when in the opinion of the   it is not practicable to treat the position as in the competitive classified service; but this paragraph shall not apply to any person employed in   or   in the service of  ,  , or to any person employed in any foreign country, or in  , by  .

8. Officers and employees in the Federal service on the Isthmus of  , except accountant, bookkeeper, clerk, draftsman, physician, play-ground director,  , stenographer, surgeon, trained nurse, typist, and harbor personnel in    . Appointments to clerical positions on the Isthmus of   paying $100 in   currency per month or less may be made without examination.

9. Positions in   when, in the opinion of the  , the use of existing registers or the establishment of new registers is considered impracticable. Former employees who served in positions excepted under this paragraph may be reinstated to positions in   in the department in which they served upon recommendation of the appointing officer and approval of  .

10. Temporary, part-time, or intermittent employments of mechanics, skilled laborers, and tradesmen on construction or repair work in the field services, in places where there is no local board of examiners of   for the employing establishment, and where the   deems it impracticable to establish registers of eligibles.   employments of a recurring nature are not authorized under this paragraph.

11. Any position directly concerned with the protection of the life and safety of the President and the members of his family.

12. Any person appointed without compensation or at a compensation of $1.00 per annum, provided such employments meet the requirements of applicable laws relating to compensation.

13. Professional, scientific and technical experts for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for consultation purposes.

14. Unskilled laborers at any city, locality or establishment where the Labor Regulations were not in effect on  . The  , with the concurrence of the department or agency concerned, may include within the classified civil service unskilled laborer positions at any such city, locality or establishment.

II.  

1. Five special assistants to the Secretary of  .

2. All employees of international commissions, congresses, conferences, and boards, except  ;  ,   and  ; and  ,  ,  , and  .

3. Chief and two assistant chiefs of the foreign service buildings office.

4. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

5. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   appointed by the President.

6. One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

7. Gage readers employed part-time or intermittently by  ,   and  , at such isolated localities that in the opinion of the   the establishment of registers is impracticable.

III.  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

2. Special employees in the field service of  ; and special employees for temporary detective work in the field service of   under the appropriation for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons violating the internal revenue laws. Appointments under this paragraph shall be limited to persons whose services are required because of individual knowledge of violations of the law, and such appointments shall be continued only so long as the personal knowledge possessed by the appointee of such violation makes his services necessary. This exemption from competition is for special and unusual cases only and report shall be made to the   by letter as soon as the appointment is made.

3.   in foreign countries designated as "interpreter-translator" and "special employee," when filled by appointment of persons who are not citizens of  ; and positions in foreign countries of messenger and janitor.

4.  : Lamplighters in  .

5. Five Assistants to the Secretary of the  .

6. Receivers of insolvent national banks and other financial institutions which are filled by appointment by   and whose salaries are paid directly from the funds of insolvent institutions.

IV. WAR DEPARTMENT

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of War and one to each Assistant Secretary of War.

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of War.

3.   Longshoremen employed at ports in  ; and the following positions on transport ships:  , water tender, oiler,  , wiper, room-bath and deck steward, messman, mess-boy, dishwasher, janitor, porter, scullion, silver and glass man,  , head-waiter, waiter, bellboy, barber, laundry-man,   steward, administrative assistant- , soda dispenser; and all grades of the following:  , baker, butcher, pantryman.

4. Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-military nature and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when in the opinion of the   they cannot be filled from registers of eligibles.

5. One consulting architect for work of reconstructing  ,  ,  

6. In  : Artisans engaged in a recognized trade, craft or skilled (manual) occupation} helpers in such occupations; and other subordinate employees in similar manual occupations; when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

7. Caretakers of abandoned military reservations or of abandoned or unoccupied military posts when the positions are filled by retired noncommissioned officers or enlisted men.

8. Civilian professors, instructors, and teachers at  ,  ,  , except the following: Civilian instructor of wrestling, civilian instructor of boxing, civilian instructor of gymnastics, chapel organist and choirmaster, teacher at the children's school, and librarian.

9. Physicians and surgeons employed on a fee basis or under contract when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

10. Employees at   hospitals in the   and in   when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

11.   boys employed on  .

12. Interns (medical and dental) in   hospitals.

13. During the emergency declared by the President to exist on  , employees of   and positions of hostess and librarian under the Morale Branch of   assigned to   posts.

14. During the emergency declared by the President to exist on  , all positions in   on the Isthmus of  .

 

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

2. Professors, instructors, and teachers in  .

3. Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-naval character and involve the security of secret or confidential matter when, in the opinion of the  , they cannot be filled from registers of eligibles.

4. Positions of attendant and orderly at   when filled by the appointment of beneficiaries of the  .

5. At the naval stations at  ,  , and Guantanamo: Artisans engaged in a recognized craft, trade, or skilled (manual) occupation; helpers in such occupations; other subordinate employees in similar manual occupations; supervisory employees over workers in these occupations; when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

VI. DEPARTMENT OF  

1. Director and three assistant directors of prisons.

2. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Attorney General, and one to each of the following: Assistant to the Attorney General, Solicitor General, Assistant Solicitor General, and each Assistant Attorney General.

3. One chauffeur for the Attorney General.

4. Eight positions in the immediate office of the Attorney General in addition to those excepted under paragraph 2 of this subdivision.

5. Members of the board of parole.

6. All positions in  .

7. One private secretary to  .

8.  , Inc.:  .

9. Three Deputy  .

10. Court reporters employed by courts outside continental limits of  .

11. Deputy   paid on a fee basis.

12. Positions of bailiff in  .

VII.  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to  , one to each Assistant  , and one to the Solicitor of  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau (or office) in   in  ,  , who is appointed by the President.

3. All employees in post offices of the third and fourth class, except postmasters and village delivery carriers.

4. One chauffeur for  .

5. Five special assistants to  .

6. Substitute rural carriers.

7. Special delivery messengers.

8. Unskilled laborers employed as janitors and cleaners at a compensation less than $720 per annum.

 . DEPARTMENT OF THE  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the   and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of the  .

3. Office of the Secretary: One assistant to the Secretary.

4. Engineers, geologists, economists, architects and appraisers in a consulting or advisory capacity for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment. Employments under this paragraph shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, unless prior permission is given by the   for the extension of  .

5. Positions in  ,  , D. C., and in the field, when filled by the appointment of   who are of one-fourth or more   blood.

6. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President, and one each to the Governors of  ,  ,  , and  .

7. All employees of   on   in  .

8. Agricultural extension agents and home demonstration agents employed in field positions in  , the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

9. Local physicians and dentists employed in   on a part-time or fee basis or under contract, when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

10. Temporary, intermittent, or seasonal positions in   when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a National Park and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the National Park, subject to the approval of the  .

11.  , deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of the Fish arid  .

12. Housekeepers in  , at a gross salary not in excess of $600 per annum.

13. Agents in the Fish and Wildlife Service and   employed in field positions, the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons or organizations outside  .

14. Positions in the field service of the Fish and   concerned with scientific fishery investigations when filled by the appointment of students at colleges and universities of recognized standing: Provided, that substantial contributions to the investigations are made by such colleges or universities in money, services, or materials or in the use of buildings, laboratories, equipment, or facilities or otherwise. Such employments may be continued under this authority only so long as the appointee is a bona fide student at the particular college or university and receives academic credit toward a degree for the work which he is performing for the Fish and Wildlife Service.

15. Office of the Secretary: Director and Assistant Director of  .

16. Office of the Secretary: One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Director of  .

17.  : The General Counsel.18. Temporary or   caretakers at temporarily closed camps or improved areas to maintain grounds, buildings or other structures and prevent damage or theft of government property. Such appointments shall not extend beyond   without the prior approval of the  .

19. Temporary seasonal field assistants in forestry and range management at salaries not to exceed a rate of $1,440 a year and for not to exceed   in any one calendar year.

20.  : One administrator and one head administrative officer.

21.  : A director, a secretary to the director, and three members of  .

22.  : The executive director of   and  .

23.  : The director of the division, one administrative assistant to the Director, and ten special assistants in  .

24.  : One administrator and one assistant administrator.

25.   and Island Possessions: The director of the division.

26. Territory of  : One Hawaiian Homes Representative.

27. Virgin Islands: The administrator of  ,  .

28. Office of the Secretary: Six field representatives whose duties are of a confidential nature.

29. Office of the Secretary: Six special agents in   to investigate fraudulent entries and other matters of a criminal nature.

IX.  . (a) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

(b) Local agents, except veterinarians, employed temporarily outside of   in demonstrating in their respective localities the necessity of eradicating cattle ticks, scabies, hog cholera, and animal tuberculosis, and other contagious or infectious animal diseases.

(c) Positions the duties of which require a speaking knowledge of one of the   languages.

In making appointments under this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the   setting forth the name, designation, and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties, in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under one of the above classes. The same procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

2. One chauffeur for the Secretary of Agriculture.

3. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

4. Student assistants whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $480 a year while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed   in any 1 calendar year, except in exceptionally meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

5. Temporary, intermittent or seasonal positions in   when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a national forest and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the national forest, subject to the approval of the  .

6. Two assistants to the Secretary in the office of the Secretary of Agriculture.

7. Any local veterinarian employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis where, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

8.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Governor of  ,   Commissioner,  ,  , and   Commissioner.

9.   Positions in   and  .

10.   Positions in  .

11.  :   and the General Solicitor.

12.  : Members of  .

13.  : The President, two Vice Presidents, Assistant to the President, and five Regional Directors.

14.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.

15.  : Two Deputy Administrators.

16.  :  .

17.  : Temporary emergency forest guards employed for fire prevention or suppression for periods not to exceed an aggregate of   in anyone  .

18.  : The Administrator, Assistant Administrator, Special Assistant to the Administrator, Regional Directors and Assistant Regional Directors.

19.  : Members of   committees.

20. Agricultural.  : Farmer fieldmen and farmer fieldwomen to interpret, explain and supervise farm programs.

21.   Temporary, intermittent and seasonal employees to check allotments, whose aggregate employment shall not exceed   in any one calendar year.

22.  : The manager, branch managers, and farmer fieldmen.

23.  : The Administrator and three assistant administrators.

24.  : The President and three Vice Presidents of  .

25.  .

26. Technical or professional consultants or advisors, at salary rates of $4600 or more, employed for not to exceed   in any one calendar year.

27. Temporary, seasonal field assistants in forestry and range management, at salaries not to exceed a rate of $1440 a year, and for not to exceed   in any one calendar year.

28. Temporary, seasonal clerical or custodial positions in  , at places other than   headquarters, paying not to exceed a rate of $1800 a year, for periods not to exceed   in any one calendar year, whenever in the opinion of the   such positions can not be filled from existing registers.

29. Temporary or   caretakers at temporarily closed camps or improved, areas. Such appointments shall not extend beyond a period of  , except with the prior approval of the  's  .

  OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

1. Bureau of the Budget: One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Director and Assistant Director.

2.  , scientific and technical experts (including part-time advisors, part-time chairmen of field offices, and part-time chairmen and members of technical advisory committees) employed for short periods for consultation purposes.

3.   in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the   and cooperating organizations or   agencies outside  .

4.  : Student assistants whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $480 a year while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools and colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, except in exceptionally meritorious cases and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

5.  : Two assistant directors.

6.  : The Executive Officer.

7.  : Eight technical consultants.

8.  : One State Director in each  .

9.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Director, to each Assistant Director, and to the Executive Officer.

 .  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

3. One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

4. Student assistants in   whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $480 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students a t high schools or colleges of recognized standing pursuing technical or scientific courses shall be eligible for appointment under this paragraph. Appointments shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, except in especially meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this paragraph shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

5.  , deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of  .

6. Office of the Secretary of  : Six assistants to the Secretary.

7. Temporary appointments to such positions required in connection with the surveying operations of the field service of   as may be authorized by the   after consultation with  . Appointments to such positions shall not exceed   in any one calendar year.

8. Caretakers and helpers at magnetic and seismological observatories outside continental  .

9. Caretakers and light attendants employed on emergency landing fields and other air navigation facilities.

10. One private secretary or confidential assistant to  .

11. Agents to take and transmit meteorological observations in connection with airways, whose duties require only part of their time, and whose compensation does not exceed $100 a month.

12.  : Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside  .

In making appointments under this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above paragraph. The same procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

13. Bureau of  , Assistant Supervisors, and supervisors' clerks and enumerators in the field service for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment for not to exceed  .

14. Bureau of the Census: Employments of individuals, firms, or corporations for not to exceed   in any one calendar year for special statistical studies and statistical compilations, the compensation for which is derived from funds deposited with   under the Act of   (49 Stat. 292), provided that such employments may, with the approval of the  , be extended for not to exceed  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.

XIII.  1. Commissioners of conciliation in labor disputes whenever in the judgment of the Secretary of   the interests of industrial peace so require.

2. Office of the' Secretary: Three special assistants to the Secretary.

3. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

4. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

5.  : The Administrator, the Assistant Administrator, and three Members of  .

 . GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to  .

2. Two assistants to  .

 . MARITIME  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

XVI.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

XVII.  

1.  : Members of  .

2.  : Members of  .

3.   : One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of  .

4.  : The President and the Vice President.

5.  : The Secretary and Assistant Secretary.

6.  : The Treasurer and Assistant  .

7.  : The General Manager, the Assistant General Manager, and five  .

8.  : The General Counsel.

9.  : The Commercial Manager and Assistant Commercial Manager.

10.  : The Credit Manager.

11.  : One Assistant to the  .

12.  : One Executive Assistant to the   and one Assistant to the Chairman of the  .

13.  : One position of Assistant to the   man of the   and to the General Manager of  .

14.  : One Deputy or Assistant to the Vice Chairman of the   and to each of the remaining three members of the  .

15.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to each of the five members of the  .

16.  : One General Counsel and one   in charge of the legal work of the  .

17.  . :A governor, two deputy governors and one assistant governor of the  .

18.  : One Assistant to  .

19.  : One Associate General Counsel in charge of the legal work of the  .

20.  : The General Manager and one Deputy Manager of the  .

21.  : One Assistant to  .

22.  : One Associate General Counsel in charge of   and one Assistant to   in charge of financial matters and matters of financial policy referred to  .

23.  : The General Manager of the   and three Deputy  , one in charge of appraisal and reconditioning, one in charge of loan service, and one in charge of property management.

24.  : One secretary, two assistants to the secretary, four assistant secretaries, one treasurer, one assistant to the treasurer, and four assistant treasurers of the  .

25.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Secretary and the Treasurer of the  .

26.  : One assistant to the  .

27.  : Twelve special assistants to  .

28.  : One assistant to each member of  .

29.  : Six administrative assistants in  .

30.  : Two junior administrative assistants in  .

31.  : Six special representatives (field).

32.  : Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Chairman and one private secretary or confidential assistant to each of the other members of  .

33.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to  .

34.  : Two private secretaries or confidential assistants assigned to  .

35.  : Four chauffeurs for the Chairman and members of  .

36.  : All directors, trustees, and officers (President, Vice President,  , Assistant General Counsel, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,  , and Assistant  ) of subsidiary or affiliated corporations.

37.  : Any position when the incumbent thereof is serving as director, trustee, President, Vice President,  , Assistant General Counsel, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,   or Assistant Treasurer of a subsidiary or affiliated corporation.

38.  : One general counsel, one special counsel, and six assistants general counsel.

39.  : Position of Chief Accountant.

40.  : Position of division chief in the following divisions: Auditing,  ,  , Railroad, Self-Liquidating, Statistical and Economic, and Information and Personnel.

41.   : Position of section chief in the following sections of  ,  , and  .

42.  : Positions of six Assistant Chiefs of  .

43.  : Position of three administrative assistants in  .

44.   : Position^ of two special examiners in  .

45.  : Not to exceed 32 positions of   Manager.

46.  : Not to exceed 36 positions of Assistant Loan Agency Manager.

47.  : Inventory custodians, watchmen, caretakers, and laborers engaged in the care and preservation of property held by the   or its   as security for loans, or property to which title has been acquired by the   or its  .

48.  : Four assistant administrators, two special assistants to the administrator, and five deputy administrators.

49.  : An executive secretary of the  .

50.  : Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the administrator.

51.  : One chauffeur for the administrator.

52.  : A general counsel.

53.  : One position of executive assistant and budget officer.

54.  : One assistant to the administrator on public relations.

55.  : Eighteen district directors, two territorial directors, and thirty-six State directors.

XVIII.  '  

1. Five special assistants to the Administrator.

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.

3. Positions in   facilities when filled by the appointment of members of such facilities receiving domiciliary care if, in the opinion of  , the duties can be satisfactorily performed by such members.

4. Any local physician or dentist employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

XIX.  

1. Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to  .

2.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

3.   Special escorts to accompany patients of   in accordance with existing laws and regulations. Employments under this paragraph shall be only for the period of time necessary for the escort to deliver the patient to his destination and to return.

4.   positions at Government sanatoria when filled by patients during treatment or convalescence.

5.  : All persons employed in leprosy, yellow fever, and psittacosis investigation stations.

6.  : Any local physician or dentist employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the  , the establishment of registers is impracticable.

7.   Employees engaged on problems in preventive medicine financed or participated in by   and a cooperating  , county, municipality, incorporated organization, or an individual, in which at least one-half of the expense is contributed by the cooperating agency either in salaries, quarters, materials, equipment, or other necessary elements in the carrying on of the work.

8.   Professional, technical, or scientific specialists when employed on a fee basis or part-time basis as consultants in connection with problems in preventive medicine, such appointments to be subject to the prior approval of the  .

9.  : Interns (medical and dental).

10.   associates holding fellowships for a fixed term of service in   under the act approved  . The qualifications for such research associates shall be subject to approval by the  .

11.  : One position of cook (oriental style), one position of kitchenman-waiter, and one position of attendant-messenger-interpreter at  ,  ,  .

12.   nurses, interns, and resident physicians.

13.   Hospital: Visiting physicians and organist.

14.   Professional, technical or scientific specialists when employed intermittently for short periods, not to exceed a total of   in any one year, as members of   for duty in connection with the formulation of definitions and standards of identity and quality for food products, or as consultants upon problems in their specialized fields having to do with the enforcement of  .

15.  : All positions.

16.  : Members of  .

17.  : Members of  .

18.   in cancer research.

19.   appointed under Section 5 (b) of the Act of  .

20.  : Specialists engaged on a study of higher education for  .

 . EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION COMMISSION

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

XXI.   MARITIME COMMISSION

1. All positions on Government-owned ships operated by  .

2. Twelve positions of Director of Division, and seven positions of Regional Director.

3. One assistant to each member of the   and two assistants to the Chairman of the  .

4. Ten special assistants to  .

5. The Secretary of the  .

6.  .

7. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner and to  .

8. The Executive Director.

9. The Financial Assistant to the Chairman.

 .  

1. One private secretary and one confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

2. A secretary to the  .

3. Consultants, experts and special counsel whose employments and compensation are fixed by contract within the limits of special funds appropriated by   for this purpose.

XXIII. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

2. One General Counsel.

3. Director of  , Director of  , Director of  , Director of  , and Director of  .

4. One Chief Accountant.

5. One Foreign Expert.

XXIV.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

 .  

1. Architectural or engineering consultants, land appraisers and land purchasing officers for temporary, intermittent, or part-time service.

XXVI.  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of  .

2. All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed banks or the liquidation of loans to banks, and all temporary field positions the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured banks.

 . ADVISORY COMMISSION TO  1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of   to  .

XXVIII. ALLEY DWELLING  

1. The Executive Officer of  .

 . INLAND WATERWAYS CORPORATION

1. Until  , all positions in or under  .

XXX.  

1. Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

In making appointments under this paragraph, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above paragraph. The same procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

2. Office of the Administrator: Two expert assistants to the Administrator.

3.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.

4. Public Buildings Administration: The Commissioner of Public Buildings.

5.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

6. Public Roads Administration: The Commissioner of Public Roads.

7. Public Roads Administration: One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

8.  : The Commissioner of Public Works.

9.  : One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

XXXI.  

1. A secretary to the  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

3. A general counsel and three assistant general counsels.

4. A chief engineer and three assistant chief engineers.

5. A chief accountant and three assistant chief accountants.

 .  

1. The secretary of the   and one private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

 . RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD

1. Two members of   to be selected by the  , one from recommendations made by representatives of the employees, and one from recommendations made by the carriers.

2. Two members of   which may be established by  , one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the representatives of the employees, and one from recommendations made by the carriers.

XXXIV.  

1. A secretary to the  .

2. A general counsel and two assistant general counsels.

3. Two permanent expert  .

4. Professional, technical and scientific consultants for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for periods not to exceed   in any one calendar year, but such employment may be extended for   with the approval of the  .

5. One special   representative and counsel.

6. Examiners employed on a temporary, part-time, or intermittent basis for periods not to exceed   in any calendar year.

7. One confidential assistant to each member of the  .

8. A director and assistant director of   and a director and assistant director of  .

 .  

1. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the board.

XXXVI. NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

1. A director, an assistant director, a secretary, and a chief curator.

XXXVII. UNITED STATES SOLDIERS' HOME

1. All positions.

 .  

1. All positions under   of  .

XXXIX.  

1. Seven  .

XL.   AND RESEARCH

(Transportation Act of  )

1. One position of Secretary to the  .

2. One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

SCHEDULE B — POSITIONS WHICH MAY BE FILLED UPON NONCOMPETITIVE EXAMINATION

 

1. Any competitive position at an   school when filled by the wife of a competitive employee of the school, when because of isolation or lack of quarters, the   deems it in the interest of the service to have appointment made upon noncompetitive examination.

2. Twelve field representatives to act as the immediate and confidential representatives of  , subject to such evidence of qualifications as the   may prescribe after consultation with  .

3.  : Civilian field positions in   camps at not to exceed a rate of $1,320 per annum, when filled by the promotion of active enrollees.

II.  

1. Administrative or custodial positions in the field service of   relating to the management or maintenance of Federal low-rent housing projects which, in the opinion of the  , cannot be filled satisfactorily through open competitive examinations; provided, that no position shall be filled under this paragraph unless it is clearly demonstrated that the best interests of the service will be served thereby.

III.  

1. Not to exceed six specialists who may be employed in   for the purpose of promoting the foreign and domestic commerce of  .

2. Special agents employed in collecting cotton statistics.

IV. WAR DEPARTMENT

1. Positions of military storekeeper in   when filled by retired noncommissioned officers of  .

2. Four positions of headquarters messenger at the headquarters of  , when filled by honorably discharged enlisted men who have been on duty at those headquarters.

3. Any person employed in an area outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of War the best interests of the service so require.

4. Classified positions in the field service of   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

5.  : Civilian field positions in   camps at not to exceed a rate of $1,320 per annum, when filled by the promotion of active enrollees.

6.  : Positions of subaltern in   camps when filled by the promotion of active enrollees who have satisfactorily completed a prescribed course of instruction of the subaltern school.

V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

1. Surgeons of the police and fire departments of  .

VI.  

1. Classified positions in the field service of  , when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

VII.  

1. Specialists in foreign relations, political, economic, and financial, whose proposed compensation is $3,200 or more, and whose training and experience along the lines of their proposed duties meet the standard minimum qualifications set up in open competitive examinations for positions in the professional service for corresponding grades.

2. Persons formerly employed abroad as   diplomatic or consular officers of career or foreign-service officers of career for the period of  , for service in   as administrative officers or executive advisers in positions comparable in salary with the associate professional grade or higher.

 .  

1. Such positions of a professional, scientific, technical, or supervisory nature under the Naval Establishment in  , as may be agreed upon by the Secretary of the   and the  .

2. Any person employed in an area outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of the   the best interests of the service so require.

3. Classified positions in the field service of   and   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

IX.  

1. One postal rate expert.

2. Classified positions in   and in   under the Fourth Assistant Postmaster General when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers subject to the approval of  .

   

1. Classified positions in the Veterans' Administration when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

 .  1. Classified positions in the field service of   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

2.  : The Deputy Governor, Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, the Director and Assistant Director of  , the Director of  , the Director and Assistant Director of the Emergency Crop and Feed Loan Section, and the Director of  .

3.   Special field representatives who serve as Vice Presidents of  .

4.   or professional consultants or advisors, at salary rates of $4,600 or more, for periods not to exceed  .

5.  : Civilian field positions in   camps at not to exceed a rate of $1,320 per annum, when filled by the promotion of active enrollees.

 .  

1. Classified positions in   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

XIII.  

1.   to cottage officers when filled by the appointment of bona fide students at colleges or universities at salaries not in excess of $540 per annum, subject to the approval of the  .

2. Special experts employed on a temporary basis for. specific litigation or other legal work in which technical knowledge of particular industries, or knowledge of other highly technical matters not possessed by regular employees of the  , is required for successful results. Such temporary employment shall be only for such time as is required to complete the specific assignment for which the original appointment was approved.

 .  

1. Classified positions in   when filled by the promotion of unclassified laborers appointed under the Labor Regulations, subject to the approval of the  .

 .  

1. A general counsel and two assistant general counsels.

2. A chief examiner and a chief engineer.

3. Five regional directors.

4. A chief and an assistant chief of the following bureaus:  ,  ,  .

XVI. ALLEY DWELLING  

1. Architectural or engineering consultants, construction supervisors, landscape planners, surveyors and related positions for temporary, intermittent, or part-time service.

XVII.  

1.  : Civilian field positions in   camps at not to exceed a rate of $1,320 per annum, when filled by the promotion of active enrollees.

 .  

1.  : A director of each of the following divisions:  ,  ,  , and  .

2.  : A comptroller.

3.  : Two land use planners.

XIX.  

1. Not to exceed five special experts.

* * * * *

  with the concurrence of the department or agency concerned may revoke in whole or in part any paragraph of   or B.

Final decision as to whether the duties of any position in the executive civil service are such that appointments there to are authorized under any paragraph of Schedule A or B shall rest with  .

This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .
