Executive Order  —Administrative Furloughs
 
 

Pursuant to the provisions of section 9 (a) of  ,  , approved   (Public, No. 78, 73d Cong.), which reads:

" . 9. (a) Until  , in cases in which the number of officers and employees in any particular service is in excess of the number necessary for the requirements of such service, the heads of the several executive departments and independent establishments of   and the municipal government of  , respectively, are hereby authorized to furlough, without pay, any officers and employees carried on their respective rolls for such periods as in their judgment may be necessary to distribute, as far as practicable, employment on the available work in such service among all the officers and employees of such service, in rotation:

Provided

, That no employee under the classified civil service shall be furloughed under the provisions of this section for a total of   during  , except after full and complete compliance with all the provisions of the civil service laws and regulations relating to reductions in personnel. Rules and regulations shall be promulgated by the President with a view to securing uniform action by the heads of the various executive departments and independent Government establishments in the application of the provisions of this section. The provisions of this section relating to furloughs shall not apply to carriers in  , but the President is authorized to suspend, or to reduce, for the duration of  , the allowance paid to such carriers for equipment and maintenance."

the following regulations are hereby prescribed:

1. Where the number of officers and employees on any class of work in the central office in an appropriation unit, as defined by   under the average provision of appropriation nets, or in a local field office of any department or independent establishment, is in excess of the number required, a uniform rotative furlough of   or less without pay may be applied to all officers and employees of such unit or local office. Credit will be allowed for furloughs already taken during  .

2.   exceeding   in the departmental service at  ,  , are subject to the   order of  , as amended. Furloughs exceeding   in the field establishments of   are subject to the general statutes and rules governing reductions in force. Furloughs of   or less may be applied without reference to the civil-service laws relating to reductions in personnel.

3. These regulations shall be effective on and after  , and shall not apply to carriers in  .

 

 ,

 .
