Executive Order 9285—Establishing   Typhus Commission
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , and for the purposes of protecting the members of the armed forces from typhus fever and preventing its introduction into  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established in  , under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of War, a commission to be known as  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall serve with the   of  , and shall consist of a Director, appointed by the Secretary of War, such officers of the   as may be detailed as members thereof by the Secretary of War, such officers of   and   as may be detailed as members thereof, upon request of the Secretary of War, by the Secretary of the   or  , and such other persons as may be appointed as members thereof by the Secretary of War.

2. The Director of the   is authorized and directed to formulate and effectuate a program for the study of typhus fever and the control thereof, both within and without  , when it is, or may become, a threat to the military population. The operations of the   abroad shall be carried out in collaboration with  .

3. The Director of the   is authorized to employ necessary technical and nonprofessional personnel, and to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds made available to the   by  ,  ,  , or other   agencies, as may be deemed necessary by him to accomplish the purposes of this order. Members of the armed forces may be detailed for duty with the  .

4. The Director shall take steps to secure the cooperation, assistance, and services of other   agencies; make arrangements for the visiting by members of the   of such areas of neutral or allied nations as may be necessary to further the study of typhus fever; arrange for the analysis, study, and publication of scientific data and material obtained in such field investigations; establish and maintain typhus fever study units at appropriate   laboratories; and procure such laboratory space, clinical facilities, and equipment as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this order. He shall collaborate with the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  ,  , and appropriate civilian organizations, when necessary, regarding the procurement of personnel and equipment in connection with the activities of the  , keep the Secretary of War informed in regard to the progress made in carrying out this order, and perform such other duties as from time to time the Secretary of War may assign to him.

5. All Executive departments, independent establishments, and other Federal agencies are hereby authorized and directed to assist the Secretary of War and the Director in carrying out this order, including the furnishing of equipment, transportation, and personnel facilities and assistance.

6. There is hereby established   Typhus Commission Medal, with suitable appurtenances, which shall be awarded by the President of   or at his direction, to any person who may render or contribute meritorious service in connection with the work of the  .

 

 ,

 .
