Executive Order  —Appointment of State Employment Security Personnel to Positions in  ,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes, by section 2 of the Civil Service Act (22 Stat. 403, 404), and by section 4 of the act of  , 54 Stat.  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Any employee of a state or territorial employment security agency, required by   in connection with its operation of employment office facilities and services essential to expediting the national-defense program pursuant to the provisions of   of  , may be appointed to a position in   of  , and upon such appointment may acquire a classified civil-service status:

Provided

, (1) that such employee was on the rolls of the state employment security agency at the close of business  ; (2) that he was previously approved for permanent or probational appointment, or within the    , becomes eligible for such appointment, under the rules of a state merit system previously approved by  ; and (3) that he satisfactorily completes a   probationary period from the date of his induction into the   service.

2. Finding that such action is necessary to the more efficient operation of the Government, it is ordered that the state salary rates in force on  , may be continued or amended as to employees affected by paragraph 1 hereof by   until such time as the positions shall be classified in accordance with the administrative provisions and salary rates of the Classification Act of  , as amended.

3. With the concurrence of  , and for such period of time as the   may deem necessary, vacancies occurring after  , in public employment office facilities and services operated by   may be filled by   from eligible lists prepared under the rules of a state merit system previously approved by   pursuant to the provisions of  . Persons so appointed may, after the satisfactory completion of a   probationary period, acquire a competitive classified civil-service status in the Federal service, subject to such regulations as   may prescribe.

This order is recommended by   as an emergency measure essential to the national defense.

 

 ,

 .
