Executive Order 8307—Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (U.S.C., title 22,  . 132), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as Chapter XIV thereof:

CHAPTER XIV

PROTECTION AND PROMOTION OF AMERICAN ECONOMIC INTERESTS

XIV-1. Protection of   interests. Officers of   shall protect the rights and interests of   in its international agricultural, commercial, and financial relations. In pursuance of this duty, they shall:

(a) Guard against the infringement of rights of   citizens in matters relating to commerce and navigation which are based on custom, international law, or treaty.

(b) Observe, report on, and, whenever possible, endeavor to remove discriminations against   agricultural, commercial, and industrial interests in other countries.

(c) Protect the national commercial reputation of  .

XIV-2. Promotion of   interests. Officers of   shall further the agricultural and commercial interests of  :

(a) By carefully studying and reporting on the potentialities of their districts as a market for   products or as a competitor of   products in international trade.

(b) By investigating and submitting   on the general standing and distributing capacity of foreign firms within their districts.

(c) By preparing and submitting upon request trade lists of commercial firms within their districts.

(d) By keeping constantly on the alert for and submitting immediate reports on concrete trade opportunities.

(e) By endeavoring to create, within the scope of the duties to which they are assigned, a demand for   products within their districts.

(f) By facilitating and reporting on proposed visits of alien business men to  .

(g) By taking appropriate steps to facilitate the promotion of such import trade into   as the economic interests of   may require.

XIV-3. Services for   citizens and business organizations in connection with the conduct of foreign trade. Officers of   shall perform the following-enumerated services for   citizens and business organizations in connection with the conduct of foreign trade, subject to such rules and limitations thereon as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  :

(a) Answering trade inquiries.

(b) Lending direct assistance to   citizens and business firms.

(c) Encouraging the establishment of, and supporting,   chambers of commerce.

(d) Preparing themselves for and, upon instructions, performing trade conference work when in   on leave, or otherwise.

XIV-4. Submission of reports on economic developments within district. Officers of   shall prepare and submit reports in connection with their duties of protecting and promoting   agricultural and commercial interests and for the purpose of providing general information on economic developments within their respective districts for  , and  , and for other governmental departments and agencies, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe.

CANCELATION OF REGULATIONS

The following provisions of   of   are hereby canceled:

PART I

Sections VIII-13, XI-7, XVI-7, XVI-14, and XVI-17.

PART II

Sections XI-187A, XXVIII-589 to  , inclusive, XXVIII-597 to XXVIII- 603E, inclusive, XXVIII-603G, XXVIII-603H, XXVIII-603J to XXVIII-603M, inclusive.

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER

Executive Order No.  , dated  , is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .
