Executive  —  of the President to the Director of Selective Service
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the  , including the Selective Training and Service Act of  , as amended, and  ,  , as President of  , and as Commander in Chief of the   and the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (a), 2 (b), and 2 (c) of Executive Order No. 9279 of   are hereby revoked: and   shall hereafter be a separate agency which shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Director of   (hereinafter referred to as the Director).

2. The functions, powers, and duties of the President under the provisions of   of  , as amended, which were transferred by paragraph 2 (b) of Executive Order No. 9279 of  , and the functions, powers, and duties of the President under the provisions of Public Law 197, 78th  , approved  , except-those under sections 3 and 4 of the said public law, are hereby delegated to the Director. The functions, powers, and duties delegated by this paragraph may be exercised by the Director and such other officers, agents, and persons as he may designate or appoint.

3. The Director shall consult with the Chairman of   (a) on all matters arising in the administration of   of  . as amended, including all matters with respect to rules, regulations, and other instructions of general application (irrespective of the form thereof) relating to the classification or deferment of registrants, which may affect the execution of the Chairman's responsibilities for the most effective utilization and mobilization of the  's manpower, and (b) on all matters necessary to assure that the administration of the said Act is coordinated with the administration of the policies and programs of the Chairman of  .

4. So far as they may be in conflict herewith, all prior Executive orders are amended accordingly; and except so far as they may be in conflict herewith all regulations, rulings, and other directives relating to   made by or under the direction of the President. the Chairman of  , or the Director are hereby ratified, approved, and confirmed.

5. This order shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .
