Executive Order  —Establishing   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 44 of the Criminal Code as amended ( , Title 18,  . 96), the following-described area is hereby established and reserved, for purposes of national defense, as a naval defensive sea area, to be known as "Honolulu Defensive Sea Area":

  territorial waters of  , Oahu, Territory of  ' its approaches and tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water as shown on the latest U.S.C. and   charts to:

A line running south true from the shore at  ,  , along the meridian of   °42' West, to the seaward limit of   territorial waters;

A line running south true from   to the seaward limit of   territorial waters; and, ,

A line running along the seaward limit of   territorial waters between the above-described bearing lines.

A vessel not proceeding under   or other   authorized supervision shall not enter or navigate the waters of the Honolulu Defensive Sea Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within the   must be made, preferably at   District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limit of the area. If radio telegraph is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs, and permission to enter the port shall be requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of the master must be given in the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.

A vessel entering or navigating the waters of the Honolulu Defensive Sea Area does so at its own risk.

Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering the   to obey any further instructions received from  , or other   authority.

A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within the  , either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft or aircraft will be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack. The loading or unloading by vessels of oil fuel or other inflammable or explosive materials shall be under the control of the local Naval authority, who shall require such loading or unloading to be accomplished in such manner and at such times as will safeguard the other activities within the   essential to the national defense.

These regulations are subject to amplification by the local   authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.

When a United States Maritime Control Area is established adjacent to or abutting upon the above-established defensive sea area, it shall be assumed that permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas.

Any master of a vessel or other person within the   who disregards these regulations, or fails to obey an order of   authority to stop or heave to, or performs any act threatening the efficiency of mines or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or takes any action inimical to the interests of  , may be detained therein by force of arms and shall be liable to attack by   armed forces, and liable to prosecution as provided for in section 44 of the Criminal Code as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

  authorities shall place at the disposal of the   authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations. The Governor of the Territory of  , the local municipal authorities, and the local civilian defense agencies are called upon to render the local   authorities all possible assistance in the enforcement of these regulations.

This order shall not be construed as modifying in any way the proclamation of the Governor of the Territory of   placing the Territory of   under martial law.

The Secretary of the   is charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.

 

 ,

 .
