Executive Order 8978—Establishing  ,  , Delaware Bay and River,  , and   for the Control Thereof
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), the following-described areas are hereby established, for purposes of national defense, as naval defensive sea areas, and the following regulations are prescribed for the control thereof:

 

All   territorial waters of   and its approaches and tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest  , to:

A line from  ,  ,  , to  , thence to  ,  ,  .

A line across the Raritan River at and following the Central Railroad of New Jersey Bridge from   to  ,  .

The contour line of extreme high water following the western shore of   and Newark Bay.

A line across the Passaic River at and following  ,  ,  .

A line across the Hackensack River at and following the  ,   and Western Railroad Bridge near  ,  .

A line across the Hudson River at and following  .

A line across Long Island Sound from Sands Point Lighthouse,  , to  , thence to  ,  ,  .

New London Defensive Sea Abba

All   territorial waters of Long Island Sound, Block Island Sound, Thames River, Gardiners Bay, and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest  , to:

A line from  ,   to  , thence to  ,  .

A line across the Thames River from shore to shore at and following the parallel of Latitude 41°26' North.

A line running from  ),  , to    , thence to   and thence to Cedar Point,  .

Delaware Bay and  

All   territorial waters of Delaware Bay and its seaward approaches, Delaware River, and  , from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest  , to:

A line running from Cape May East Jetty Light, Cape May,  , on bearing 147° true to the seaward limit of   territorial waters, thence along the seaward boundary of territorial waters southwesterly to the parallel of Latitude 38°43'18" North, and thence west along this parallel of Latitude to the Tower, at  ,  , in approximate position, Latitude 38°43'18",  °04'38" West.

A line across the Delaware River above  ,  , at and following   at  ,  .

A line across the Schuylkill River at and following Fairmount Dam.

  Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of   and its approaches;  ,  ,  , York River, and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest  , to:

A line running from the southernmost point of  ,  , to   on Smith Island, thence on a bearing 130° true to the seaward limit of   territorial waters, thence southwesterly along the limit of territorial waters to the parallel of Latitude 36°51'15" and thence west meeting the shore at  ,  ,  

A line across  ,  , from shore to shore along the parallel of Latitude 36°46' North.

A line across the James River at and following  , near  ,  .

A line across  , from shore to shore along the parallel of Latitude 37°20' North.

A line running from New Point Comfort (Mobjack Bay),  , along the parallel of Latitude 37°18' North to the eastern shore of   at  .

 

All   territorial waters, of Charleston Harbor and its seaward approaches; Cooper River, Ashley River,  , and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest  , to:

A line running from the Standpipe on Isle of Palms,  , on a bearing 180° to the seaward limit of  . territorial waters, thence along the seaward limit of territorial waters to   (32°41'42" North), thence west along that parallel of  , thence on a line bearing 308° true to the tank in   in Latitude 32°46'06" North, Longitude 80°00'03" West.

A line across the Ashley River, from shore to shore at and following the meridian of 80°  .

A line across the Cooper River, from shore to shore at and following the parallel of Latitude 32°55' North.

A line across the Wando River, from shore to shore at and following the meridian of Longitude 79°52'43" West to a point at Latitude 32°51'48", thence along bearing 136° true to the Standpipe on Isle of Palms.

The following orders and regulations for the government of persons and vessels within the limits of Defensive Sea Areas, which orders and regulations are necessary for purposes of  , are hereby authorized and promulgated.

REGULATIONS FOR DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS

I. A vessel not proceeding under   or other   authorized supervision, shall not enter or navigate the waters of a Defensive Sea Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within a Defensive Sea Area must be made; preferably by application at   District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 Kes, and permission to enter the port requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry and name of master must be given In the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.

II. A vessel entering or navigating the waters of a Defensive Sea Area does so at its own risk.

III. Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel, entering a Defensive Sea Area, to obey any further instructions received from  , or other   authority.

IV. A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within a Defensive Sea Area, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft will be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack. The loading or unloading by vessels of oil fuel or other inflammable or explosive materials shall be under the control of the local Naval authority, who shall require such loading or unloading to be accomplished in such manner and at such times as will safeguard the other activities within a Defensive Sea Area essential to the national defense.

V. These regulations are subject to amplification by the local   authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.

VI. When a   is established adjacent to or abutting upon any of the above established Defensive Sea Areas, It shall be assumed that permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas. Permission to enter or transit the Panama Canal shall, however, continue to be a separate procedure.

VII. Any master of a vessel or other person within a Defensive Sea Area who shall disregard these regulations, or shall fail to obey an order of   authority to stop or heave to, or shall perform any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or shall take any action inimical to the interests of   in its prosecution of the war, may be detained therein by force of arms and renders himself liable to attack by   armed forces, and liable to prosecution as provided for in Section 44, of the Criminal Code as amended (U.S.C., title 18, Section 96).

VIII. All   authorities shall place at the disposal of the   authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations. The Governors of the States concerned, the local municipal officials, and the local Civil Defense agencies are called upon to render the local   authorities all possible assistance in the enforcement of these regulations.

IX. The Secretary of the   will be charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.

 

 ,

 .
