Executive  —Award of the Purple Heart to Persons Serving with the  ,   or   of  
 
 

Whereas

the decoration of the Purple Heart is awarded, as prescribed by   of  , to persons serving with  ; and

Whereas

it is appropriate that the award of the Purple Heart be authorized to persons serving with the  ,   or   of  :

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and as Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Secretary of the   is authorized and directed to award   in the name of the President of   to persons who, while heretofore or hereafter serving in any capacity with the  ,   or   of  , are wounded in action against an enemy of  , or as a result of an act of such enemy, provided such would necessitates treatment by a medical officer.

2. Except as authorized in paragraph three hereof, no more than one Purple Heart shall be awarded to any one person, but for each subsequent justification for such an award a Gold Star, or other suitable device shall be awarded, to be worn with   as prescribed by appropriate regulations.

3. The Secretary of the   is further authorized and directed to award the Purple Heart posthumously, in the name of the President of  , to any persons who, while serving in any capacity with the  ,   or   of  , since  , are killed in action or who die as a direct result of wounds received in action with an enemy of  , or as a result of an act of such enemy.   will be forwarded to the nearest of kin of any person entitled to the posthumous award regardless of whether a previous award has been made to such person.

4. If so authorized by the Secretary of the   the award of the Purple Heart may be made by the Commander in Chief of a fleet, or by such other appropriate officers as the Secretary of the   may designate.

5. The Secretary of the   is authorized to promulgate such regulations as he may deem appropriate to effectuate the purposes hereof. The regulations of the Secretary of the   hereunder, and the regulations of the Secretary of War with respect to the award of the Purple Heart to persons serving in any capacity with the   of  , shall, so far as practicable, be of uniform application.

 

 ,

 .
