Executive Order 6621—  Under the Control and Jurisdiction of  ,  
 
 

Whereas

by Executive Order No.   of  , the administration of the government of  , including expenditures and the appointment of personnel, was placed under the supervision of the Secretary of the  ; and

Whereas

certain lands, buildings, and improvements at the Naval Station,  ,  , as shown on P.W.O. drawing "D" attached to and made a part of Executive Order No. 5602 of  , and as hereinafter enumerated under class 1, which were acquired by   for naval activities are not for the time being needed for such uses and are available for temporary use in the administration of the government of  , to wit:

Class 1

St. Thomas:

(a) Storehouse (no. 4);

(b) Machine shop and   (nos. 14 and 15);

(c)   house for marine railway (no. 16);

(d)   railway (no. 17);

(e) Boat sheds (nos. 18 and 19);

(f) Water shed (no. 24);

(g) Water tanks (nos. 25,  , and 27);

(h) Gasoline storage (no. 56); and

Whereas

certain furnishings, hereinafter enumerated under class 2, which were acquired by   for naval activities are not for the time being needed for such uses and are available for use in the administration of the government of  , to wit:

Class 2

(a) All fire hose at the naval station;

(b) All fire extinguishers;

(c) All water pumps;

(d) The remnants of the dredge and pile driver and other odds and ends stored in the gasoline storehouse;

(e) The folding steel cots at present stored at the   yard.

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 171, 39 Stat.  ), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered that all items above enumerated under class 1 be, and they are hereby, transferred temporarily to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   for use in the administration of the government of  , upon condition that the premises shall be maintained in a state of good repair and returned to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   when required for naval uses. It is further ordered that all items above enumerated under class 2 be, and they are hereby, transferred to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   for use in the administration of the government of  .

 

 ,

 .
