Executive  —Transfer of Functions of   to   in Europe to  
 
 

Whereas

section 16 of the act of   (ch. 212, 47 Stat.  ), provides for reorganizations witliin the executive branch of the Government, requires the President to investigate and determine what reorganizations are necessary to effectuate the purposes of the act, and authorizes the President to make such reorganizations by Executive order; and

Whereas

section 2 of Executive Order No.  , provides, among other things, that the functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries located in foreign countries shall be transferred to  ; and

Whereas

the effective date of the aforementioned provision of section 2 of Executive Order No.   was postponed until further order by section 3 of Executive Order No.   of  ; and

Whereas

after further investigation I find and declare that the transfer of the functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries,including memorials, in Europe from   to   would be in the public interest and would effectuate the purposes of said section 16;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the aforesaid section 16 of the act of  , it is ordered that so much of section 2 of Executive Order No.  , as provides that the functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries located in foreign countries shall be transferred to   be, and it is hereby, revoked.

It is further ordered that all functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries and memorials located in Europe now vested in or exercised by  , together with the field civilian personnel, records, supplies, equipment, and property of every kind pertaining thereto, be, and they are hereby, transferred from   to  .

The unexpended balances of appropriations and/or allotments of appropriations now, or which may become, available to   for the performance of the functions transferred by this order shall be transferred to   to such extent as the Director of   may deem necessary, and any remaining balance shall, in accordance with law, be impounded and returned to the  .

This order will become effective in accordance with the provisions of section 1 of title III of the act of   (ch. 3,   Stat.  ):

Provided

, That in case it shall appear to the President that the interests of economy require that the transfer be delayed beyond the date this order is to become effective, he may, in his discretion, fix a later date therefor, and he may for like cause further defer such date from time to time.

Done in triplicate.

 

 ,

 .
