Executive Order  —  and Naval Airspace Reservations Over the Islands of Palmyra,  ,  , Wake, and  
 
 

PACIFIC OCEAN

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the provisions of section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), and section 4 of the Air Commerce Act approved   (44 Stat. 570,  , title  ,  . 174), the territorial waters between the extreme high-water marks in the three-mile marine boundaries surrounding the islands of  ,  , Wake, and  , in the Pacific Ocean, are hereby established and reserved as naval defensive sea areas for purposes of national defense, such areas to be known, respectively, as "Palmyra Island Naval Defensive Sea Area", "Johnston Island Naval Defensive Sea Area", " ", "Wake Island Naval Defensive Sea Area", and "Kingman Reef Naval Defensive Sea Area"; and the airspaces over the said territorial waters and islands are hereby set apart and reserved as naval airspace reservations for purposes of national defense, such reservations to be known, respectively, as "Palmyra Island Naval Airspace Reservation", "Johnston Island Naval Airspace Reservation", "  Airspace Reservation", "Wake Island Naval Airspace Reservation", and "Kingman Reef Naval Airspace Reservation".

At no time shall any person, other than persons on public vessels of  , enter any of the naval defensive sea areas herein set apart and reserved, nor shall any vessel or other craft, other than public vessels of  , be navigated into any of said areas, unless authorized by the Secretary of the  .

At no time shall any aircraft, other than public aircraft of  , be navigated into any of the naval airspace reservations herein set apart and reserved, unless authorized by the Secretary of the  .

The provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall be enforced by the Secretary of the  , with the cooperation of the local law enforcement officers of   and of the Territory of  ; and the Secretary of the   is hereby authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out such provisions.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this order relating to the abovenamed naval defensive sea areas shall be subject to the penalties provided by section 44 of the Criminal Code as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), and any person violating any of the provisions of this order relating to the above-named naval airspace reservations shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by the Civil Aeronautics Act of   (52 Stat. 973).

This order shall take effect   after date hereof.

 

 ,

 .

Note: Executive Order  , 12 FR 5325, 3  ,   Comp., p. 662, discontinued the Palmyra Island Naval Airspace Reservation and the Palmyra Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.
