Executive  —Reorganization of the Army of   and Transfer of Functions Within  
 
 

Under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , approved   (Public Law 354, 77th  ), and as Commander in Chief of the   and   and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Army of   is reorganized to provide under the Chief of Staff a ground force, under a  ,  ; an air force, under a  ,  ; and a service of supply command, under a  ; and such overseas departments, task forces, base commands, defense commands, commands in theaters of operations, and other commands as the Secretary of War may find to be necessary for the national security.

2. The functions, duties, and powers of the chiefs of the following-named branches of the Army of   are transferred to  ,  , Field Artillery, and   (except those relating to procurement, storage, and issue).

3. The functions, duties, and powers of  , General   (Air Force Combat Command), and of the Chief of   are transferred to  ,  .

4. The functions, duties, and powers of the Chief of Coast Artillery relating to procurement, storage, and issue are transferred to  .

5. Any officers holding offices the functions, duties, and powers of which are transferred by this   shall be reassigned to suitable duties but shall continue to hold their respective offices until vacated.

6. The Secretary of War is authorized and directed to prescribe such functions, duties, and powers of the commanders of the various forces and commands of   and the agencies of   and to issue from time to time such detailed instructions regarding personnel, funds, records, property, routing of correspondence, and other matters as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order. Such duties by the Secretary of War are to be performed subject always to the exercise by the President directly through the Chief of Staff of his functions as Commander in Chief in relation to strategy, tactics, and operations.

7. This   shall become effective on  , and shall remain in force during the continuance of the present war and for   after the termination thereof.

 

 ,

 .
