Executive Order 6964-B—Code of Fair Competition for the Paper and Pulp Industry
 
 

AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE V

Pursuant to authority vested in me by Title I of  , upon due consideration of the facts, and upon the report and recommendation and findings of   with respect to the adequacy of the minimum wages established in the Code of Fair Competition for the Paper and Pulp Industry as approved by me on  ,

I,  

, President of  , do hereby adopt and approve the said report, recommendation and findings of  , and

Do  

that the Code of Fair Competition for the Paper and Pulp Industry be and the same is hereby amended to the extent set forth in   attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof, and,

Do  

that said amendment and the Code as constituted after being amended comply in all respects with the pertinent provisions and will promote the policy and purposes of said Title of said Act, and,

Do  

that said amendment be and it is hereby approved, and that the previous approval of said Code is hereby amended to include an approval of said Code in its entirety as amended.

 

Approval Recommended:

National Industrial Recovery Board

By:  

Administrative Officer

 

Feb 5.  .

SCHEDULE A

Amendment to the Code of Fair Competition for the Paper and Pulp Industry

Article V, Section 1, of said Code is hereby deleted in its entirety and in lieu thereof the following is inserted:

1. The minimum rate of wage of any worker referred to in Sub-sections (a), (b), (c), and (d), of Section 1 of Article IV shall be as follows:

(a). In the Northern Zone, which shall consist of all the territory of   except the states described in Sub-sections (b) and (c) hereof:—

Male: 40 cents per hour: Female: 35 cents per hour

(b). In the Central Zone, which shall consist of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  :—

Male: 37 cents per hour;  : 32 cents per hour

(c). In the Southern Zone, which shall consist of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  :—

Male: 32 cents per hour;  : 30 cents per hour

Article V, Section 5 of said Code is hereby deleted and in lieu thereof the following is inserted:

5. The minimum rate of wage for all employees described in Sub-section (f) of Section 1 of Article IV shall be as follows:

(a). In the Northern Zone as defined in Section 1 hereof, $16.00 per week

(b). In the Central Zone as defined in Section 1 hereof, $15.00 per week

(c). In the Southern Zone as defined in Section 1 hereof, $14.00 per week
