Executive Order 6960—Enlarging Killcohook Migratory  ,  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to effectuate the purposes of   (ch. 257, 45 Stat.  ), it is ordered that the following-described area in  ,  , as shown on the map attached hereto and made a part of this order, with all buildings thereon, be, and it is hereby, reserved and, subject to valid existing rights, set apart for the use of  ) as a headquarters for the administration of  , established by Executive Order No. 6582, of   at comer no. 1 on the center of the road leading from   to Pennsville, distant 680.93 ft. and on a true bearing of  °45' W. from corner no. 19 of the existing  , as described in Executive Order No. 6582;

Thence, along the center of the road leading from   to  ,

N.  , 647.00 ft., to corner no. 2, known as monument  , a granite boundary monument, the upper end squared and dressed, marked "  LHE" on one side, and having a drilled hole in center of top, buried in the road, from which point the aforesaid corner no. 19 of the existing   bears N.  , 33.93 ft. distant;

Thence, along the center of the road to  ,  , 9.10 ft., to corner no. 3, a point in center of said road;

Thence, with a line common to  , reserved to  , S. 2°05' W., 283.00 ft., to corner no. 4, a point;

 °03' W., 553.90 ft., to monument  , a granite boundary monument, the upper end squared and dressed, marked "  LHE" on one side, and having a drilled hole in center of top;

Thence, on the same bearing, 33.30 ft., a total distance of 587.20 ft. from corner no. 4, to corner no. 1, the place of beginning, containing 1.96 acres, be the same more or less.

The area above described is primarily under the jurisdiction of  , and its reservation for the purposes set out in this order is subject to the use thereof by said   in connection with  ; and the enforcement of law, regulations, and uses thereof by   shall be without interference with any existing or future uses or regulations of  .

It is unlawful within this reservation (a) to hunt, trap, capture, willfully disturb, or kill any wild animal or bird of any kind whatever, to take or destroy the nests or eggs of any wild bird, or (except in the exercise of the dominant jurisdiction of  ) to occupy or use any part of the reservation, or to enter thereon for any purpose, except under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  ; (b) to cut, burn, or destroy any timber, underbrush, grass, or other natural growth; (c) willfully to leave fire or to suffer it to burn unattended near any forest, timber, or other inflammable material; (d) after building a fire in or near any forest, timber, or other inflammable material, to leave it without totally extinguishing it; and (e) willfully to injure, molest, or destroy any property of  .

All persons are hereby informed that sections  ,   (as amended), and 84 (as amended) of the Criminal Code of   (secs. 106, 107, and 145, title 18, U.S.C.) and section 14 of   of   (see. 715m, title 16,  ) prescribe penalties for the commission of the offenses enumerated in the preceding paragraph.

 

 ,

 .

Related Images

154737.jpg
