Executive Order 9467—Amendment of Executive Order No.   of  , as Amended, Relating to   in the Service of the Panama Canal and   on the Isthmus of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 81 of title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, as amended by section 3 of the act approved  , 50 Stat. 487, it is hereby ordered as follows:

 . 1. Paragraph 6 of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended by the executive order of  , is amended to read as follows:

"6. No employees shall receive compensation at a rate in excess of $100 a month or 50 cents an hour unless they are citizens of   or of  : and such citizens shall be given preference for employment in all grades:

Provided, however

, (a) that aliens may be employed in positions for which the rate of compensation is in excess of $100 a month or 50 cents an hour (1) if they occupied the same or similar positions for   or more during the construction of the Canal, or (2) if such action is deemed necessary by reason of an emergency, in which latter case, however, the aliens shall be replaced by citizens of   or of   as early as practicable; and (b) that the Governor is authorized to increase the rate of compensation of not more than 200 alien employees to a rate exceeding $100 a month or 50 cents an hour."

 . 2. Paragraph 16 of the said executive order is amended to read as follows:

"16. employees may be granted such passes and reduced rates on the Panama Railroad, for use by the employees, dependent members of their families, or relatives temporarily residing with them, as may be authorized by the Governor in his discretion."

 . 3. Paragraph 19 of the said executive order is amended to read as follows:

"19. All employees in cases of illness or injury will receive free medical care and attendance in the hospitals. If medical attendance is furnished in quarters, a charge may be made under regulations to be prescribed by the Governor. employees shall be charged for medical care and attendance furnished members of their families at the hospitals and at their quarters at such rates and under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Governor."

 . 4. Paragraph 20 of the said executive order, as amended by the executive order of  , is amended to read as follows:

"20. All employees who are citizens of  , and alien employees who receive compensation at a rate in excess of $100 a month or 50 cents an hour, with the exception of those who receive such compensation under authority of subparagraph (c) in paragraph 6 of this  , as amended, shall be entitled to leave privileges under this  ."

 . 5. Paragraph 24 of the said executive order, as substituted in Executive Order No.  , and amended by Executive Order No. 8931 of  , is amended to read as follows:

"24. Absences of   or more when regularly authorized, and absences on account of illness or injury when supported by the certificate of an authorized physician in the service of The Panama Canal, shall be charged against   leave."

 . 6. Paragraph 36 of the said executive order, as substituted in Executive Order No.  , is amended to read as follows:

"36. When an employee\'s service is terminated, a cash payment in commutation of leave will be made to him, or in the event of his death to his estate, for the number of days\' cumulative leave due plus the   leave due. When an employee has accumulated leave to the amount of   or more, and the taking of leave by such employee has been deferred by order of the Governor for a period of, or periods aggregating,  , and the employee at the expiration of such period or periods still cannot, in the judgment of the Governor, be spared to permit the employee to enter upon leave without detriment to the efficient maintenance, operation, sanitation, civil government or protection of the Panama Canal and Canal Zone, the Governor may in his discretion authorize cash payment in commutation of the leave accumulated in excess of  :

Provided

, that the amount of leave which may be commuted during the employee\'s service   shall not exceed the amount of leave earned by the employee during  : And provided further, that this sentence shall remain in effect only during the continuance of the present war and for   thereafter.\"

 . 7. Executive  .   of  , and Executive Order No. 9164 of  , are hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .
