Executive Order 7287—Selection of Members of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 49 Stat. 498, I hereby order as follows:

1. The thirteen members, other than the Chairman, of   (hereinafter referred to as  ") established by the said act shall be selected as follows:

(a) Six members of the   shall be designated members. One designated member shall be named by each of the folio wing officers from among the officials or employees subject to his direction as such officer:

The Secretary of the  

The Secretary of  The Secretary of Agriculture

The Secretary of Commerce

The Secretary of  

The Chairman of   of  

(b) Seven members of the   shall be elected by the Chairman and the six designated members within   after the date of the organization of the  , which, for the purposes of this order, shall be the date that   established by the said act shall declare that seven members have qualified for membership in  Provided, however

, that not less than four of such elected members shall be persons already in the service of  : And provided jurther, that at least one of such elected members shall be a person who is not, during his tenure of membership, a permanent paid employee of  .

2. The term of membership of a designated member shall be at the pleasure of the officer authorized to designate such member, but such term shall not exceed   without redesignation. The term of membership of an elected member shall be   from the date of his election unless sooner terminated by the President in his discretion:

Provided

, that members elected in   shall be elected for   only. If any member shall sever his connection with the department or agency of   to which he is attached at the time of his designation or election, his membership shall become vacant upon the date of the severing of such connection, and, in accordance with the provisions of this order, his successor shall be designated or elected for the unexpired term of such membership within   after such vacancy shall have occurred:

Provided, however

, that if the membership of any elected member shall become vacant within   prior to its expiration date, such membership may, at the discretion of the Board, be left vacant for the unexpired term. If any membership shall become vacant for any reason other than the reasons hereinbefore set forth, such membership shall within   be filled for the unexpired term in the manner hereinbefore prescribed.

 

 ,

 .
