Executive Order 8346—Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C. § 132), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as Chapter VI thereof:

CHAPTER VI-CORRESPONDENCE, REPORTS, AND  

VI-1.

Conduct of official correspondence. (a) Authority of officers of   to correspond on official matters

. Subject to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  , officers of   may correspond on official matters with the government of the country to which they are assigned or accredited, with the Secretary of  , and with the following branches and officials of  , but with no one else:

(1)   officials stationed or temporarily residing in foreign countries, and officials of insular possessions of  ;

(2)  ;

(3)  ;

(4)  

(5) Collectors of customs and appraisers;

(6) Immigration inspectors;

(7) Officials of other departments in reply to inquiries from them.

(b)

Authority of officers of   to correspond on matters of private business

. Subject to such regulations as may be prescribed by  , an officer of   may correspond in his official capacity with any person on matters which relate strictly to the private business of such person.

(c)

Duties of officers of   in connection with the conduct of correspondence

. Officers of   shall perform the following duties in connection with the conduct of official correspondence:

(1) Inaugurate correspondence whenever required to do so by the Secretary of  ,  , or the exigencies of the situation;

(2) Acknowledge promptly all correspondence addressed to them in their official capacity and, subject to such limitations as may be prescribed in these Regulations, supply the inquirers with the information requested;

(3) Submit such reports as are required or authorized by the terms of these  ;

(4) Transmit copies of all documents, publications, newspaper items, foreign laws, decrees, translations, and such items of information as may be required by the Secretary of   for the use of   or of other Government departments.

VI-2.

Preparation and transmission of official correspondence and mail

. Officers of   shall prepare and transmit official correspondence and mail in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

VI-3.

Disposition of unofficial mail received at   offices

. Unofficial mall received at   offices shall be disposed of in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe.

CANCELLATION OF REGULATIONS

The following provisions of   of   are hereby canceled:

PART I

Sections VIII-1 to VIII-7, inclusive,  ,  , XV-3, XVI-18 to XVI-20, inclusive, XVII-14, XVII-15, XVII-18, XVII-21, XVII-23 to XVII-27, inclusive.

Chapter XVIII.

PART II

Sections VI-97, XXIV-439,  ,  ,  , XXIV-460,  , XXIV-476, XXVIII-595, XXVIII-596, XXVIII-603F.

Chapter IX.

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS

The following Executive orders are hereby revoked:

Executive Order No. 3653-A dated  .

Executive Order No.   dated  .

Executive Order No. 3900 dated  .

Executive Order No.   dated  .

Executive Order No. 7439 dated  .

 

 ,

 .
