Executive Order 8034—Establishing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established   to be composed of representatives designated by the heads of the following-named Executive departments and agencies, each department and agency to have one representative:  ),      ,  ,  ,  , and  . The   may authorize representation thereon of any other Executive department or agency, such representatives to be designated as stated above. Pending selection of a permanent chairman by   the representative of the   shall serve as temporary chairmen. The members of the   shall be officers or employees of the department or agency which they represent, and shall serve without additional compensation and without entailing additional expense to the Government.

2. The Secretary of the   is requested to cause to be maintained by   a permanent current record of all Federal real estate, and the several Executive departments and agencies are requested to furnish, upon request of the Director of  , such information as may be required to maintain such record.

3. The heads of the several Executive departments and agencies are requested to supply to  , for use of  , a current record of all real property under their respective jurisdictions which is not being utilized, in whole or in part, for the purposes of their own department or agency.   shall consult with, and make recommendations to,   and to the   departments and agencies concerned, with respect to such disposition of surplus real property as will best serve the interests of the Government.

4. Executive departments and agencies contemplating the acquisition of additional real property are requested, before acquiring such property, to ascertain from   whether there is any real property in Federal ownership that may be made available for the purpose contemplated, and, in all cases in which such action may appear desirable, to consult with   regarding the acquisition of such Federal property for the use of their own department or agency.

5.   shall study, and make appropriate recommendations regarding, the situation in different communities adversely affected by the loss of tax revenue on land purchased or acquired by  .

 

 ,

 .
