Executive  —Regulations With Respect to the Uniforms of Commissioned Officers of  , and Governing the Wearing of Such Uniforms
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 215 (a) and 510 of  , approved   (58 Stat. 690, 711), I hereby prescribe the following regulations with respect to the uniforms of commissioned officers of  , and governing the wearing of such uniforms:

1. Except as provided in section 2 of this order, the uniforms of male commissioned officers of   shall be the same as the uniforms now or hereafter prescribed for male commissioned officers of   of corresponding grades, except that:

(a) Public Health Service insignia shall be substituted for   insignia other than appropriate insignia of grade, and

(b) A metal   miniature corps device shall be worn in lieu of the grade mark worn by commissioned officers of  , on the left shirt collar tip of the slate gray or khaki uniform.

2. The uniforms of male commissioned officers of   detailed for duty or serving as liaison officers with the  , or performing such other assignments in such places or under such circumstances as the Surgeon General may from time to time determine make the wearing of   type uniforms more appropriate, shall be the same as the uniforms now or hereafter prescribed for male commissioned officers of corresponding grades of  , except that   insignia shall be substituted for   or   insignia other than the block letters "U. S." and appropriate insignia of grade.

3. Except as provided in section 4 of this order, the uniforms of female commissioned officers of   shall be the same as the uniforms now or hereafter prescribed for commissioned officers of   of   (SPARS), of corresponding grades except that:

(a) Public Health Service insignia and headgear shall be substituted for   insignia and headgear other than appropriate insignia of grade, except that embroidered or woven corps devices shall not be worn on the blouse lapel of blue or white uniform.

(b) The sleeve markings worn on the sleeve of the blouse of the blue and white uniforms shall be of gold-colored lace or thread and shall correspond with the sleeve markings of male commissioned officers of   of corresponding grades.

(c) Sleeve markings shall not be worn on the striped seersucker uniforms but grade shall be indicated by a metal grade mark, corresponding in size to that worn on the shirt collar tip of the slate gray or khaki uniform of male commissioned officers of  , to be worn on the right blouse lapel, and a metal miniature   corps device shall be worn on the left blouse lapel.

(d) The blue or white beret or the garrison cap shall be worn with the blue uniform, the white beret shall be worn with the white uniform, and the garrison cap or the blue beret shall be worn with the striped seersucker uniform.

4. The uniforms of female commissioned officers of   detailed for duty or serving as liaison officers with the  , or performing such other assignments in such places, or under such circumstances as the Surgeon General may from time to time determine make the wearing of   type uniforms more appropriate, shall be the same as the uniforms now or hereafter prescribed for commissioned officers of   corresponding grades, except that   insignia shall be substituted for   or   insignia other than the block letters "U. S." and appropriate insignia of grade.

5.   insignia shall be:

(a) Corps device—An ornament of gold-colored metal or gold-colored thread or lace consisting of a fouled anchor and caduceus crossed as in the seal of the Service, 1 inch high and 1 inch wide. Except when incorporated as part of the cap device, the corps device shall be so placed on the uniform that the staff of the caduceus is vertical and the anchor is pointing inward. The capital letter "N" shall be superimposed upon the corps device of commissioned nurses, and shall be of white or silver-colored thread or lace or gold-colored metal to correspond with the composition of the corps device.

(b) Miniature corps device—A corps device 11/16 inch high and 11/16 inch wide.

(c)   device—An ornament of gold- colored metal or gold-colored lace or thread consisting of a shield with a chief with thirteen stars surmounted with a spread eagle, head dextral, with the whole placed on the corps device, with dimensions as follows:

Height of shield—1 3/16 inches

Height of eagle—7/8 inch

Wing spread of eagle—2 1/8 inches

Staff of caduceus—2 1/2 inches

Length of anchor—2 1/2 inches

(d) Miniature cap device—A cap device with dimensions as follows:

Height of shield—1/2 inch

Height of eagle—1/2 inch

Wing spread of eagle—1 3/16 inches

Staff of caduceus—l 3/16 inches

Length of anchor—1 3/16 inches

(e)   strap—A sliding leather strap faced with gold-colored lace or thread 1/2 inch wide with a center band of red running lengthwise, 1/16 inch wide, with brass eyelets at each end, and with two slides of the same width and design as the strap at right angles to the strap.

(f) Buttons—of the same composition and arrangement as on the corresponding article of uniform clothing of a commissioned officer of  ,   of   (SPARS),   of the  , or  , with the   device of   embossed on the button.

6.   headgear for female commissioned officers wearing uniforms as prescribed in section 3 of this order shall be:

(a) The beret—of white material or blue felt with a metal cap device to be worn at the front or left front.

(b) The garrison cap—of blue and of any of the materials authorized for the blue uniform, and to be worn with a metal miniature cap device on the left side and a metal grade mark of corresponding size on the right side.

7. In time of war, and at such other times as may be designated by  , all commissioned officers of   on active duty shall appear in uniform. In time of peace the Surgeon General shall from time to time designate those stations of the Service and those areas, if any, at which commissioned officers of the Service shall wear uniforms. Commissioned officers of the Service detailed for duty with the  ,  , or   shall wear the uniform of   most nearly corresponding to that worn by the unit of the branch of the armed forces with which such officers are serving.

8.  , or such officers as he may designate, shall from time to time prescribe the uniform of   to be worn at particular stations of the Service or in particular areas at   and on dress occasions, and  , or such officers as he may designate, may also prescribe the circumstances under which uniforms need not be worn.

9. Unless authorized by   with the approval of  , commissioned officers of   on inactive duty and retired commissioned officers of the Regular Corps shall not wear uniforms except on occasions of ceremony.

10.   nurses while on duty at hospitals, or while performing other clinical work in which white working uniforms are customarily worn by nurses, shall wear a conventional nurse's white working uniform. A metal miniature corps device shall be worn on the left collar tip of this uniform and a metal grade mark of corresponding size shall be worn on the right collar tip of this uniform, each device being worn one inch from the front edge of the collar.

11.   nurses detailed to   or local health departments while engaged in public health nursing, consisting of home visiting or clinical work, may wear the uniform dress, if any, of the   public health department to which detailed, together with the garrison cap with   cap device on the left side and grade mark of corresponding size on the right side. While wearing   health department uniforms such nurses shall wear the same collar-tip insignia as commissioned nurse officers on hospital duty.

12. Members of  , or persons authorized by   to wear a uniform similar to the uniform of members of  , may wear   insignia, or insignia similar thereto.

13. Persons not in uniform and not representing themselves to be commissioned officers of   or members of   may wear ornamental   insignia, or may wear the Corps device or the miniature Corps device, in honor of a commissioned officer of   or a member of  .

14. As used in these regulations, the term "Surgeon General" means    .

15. Article IX of "Regulations for the Government of the United States Public Health Service", approved by the President  , and all amendments thereto, and "Regulations Governing the Uniforms of Officers and Employees of the United States Public Health Service", approved by the President  , and all amendments thereto, are hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .
