Executive Order  —Establishing a War Refugee Board
 
 

Whereas

it is the policy of this Government to take all measures within its power to rescue the victims of enemy oppression who are in imminent danger of death and otherwise to afford such victims all possible relief and assistance consistent with the successful prosecution of the war;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to effectuate with all possible speed the rescue and relief of such victims of enemy oppression, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is established in   of the President a War Refugee Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The   shall consist of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of War. The   may request the heads of other agencies or departments to participate in its deliberations whenever matters specially affecting such agencies or departments are under consideration.

2. The Board shall be charged with the responsibility for seeing that the policy of the Government, as stated in the  , is carried out. The functions of the   shall include without limitation the development of plans and programs and the inauguration of effective measures for (a) the rescue, transportation, maintenance, and relief of the victims of enemy oppression, and (b) the establishment of havens of temporary refuge for such victims. To this end the  , through appropriate channels, shall take the necessary steps to enlist the cooperation of foreign Governments and obtain their participation in the execution of such plans and programs.

3. It shall be the duty of the  ,  , and  , within their respective spheres, to execute at the request of the  , the plans and programs so developed and the measures so inaugurated. It shall be the duty of the heads of all agencies and departments to supply or obtain for the   such information and to extend to the   such supplies, shipping, and other specified assistance and facilities as the   may require in carrying out the provisions of this  .   shall appoint special attaches with diplomatic status, on the recommendation of the  , to be stationed abroad in places where it is likely that assistance can be rendered to war refugees, the duties and responsibilities of such attaches to be defined by the   in consultation with  .

4. The   and the  ,  , and   are authorized to accept the services or contributions of any private persons, private organizations,   agencies, or agencies of foreign governments in carrying out the purposes of this  . The Board shall cooperate with all existing and future international organizations concerned with the problems of refugee rescue, maintenance, transportation, relief, rehabilitation, and resettlement.

5. To the extent possible the   shall utilize the personnel, supplies, facilities, and services of the  ,  , and  . In addition the  , within the limits of funds which may be made available, may employ necessary personnel without regard for   laws and regulations and the Classification Act of  , as amended, and make provisions for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge its responsibilities. The   shall appoint an Executive Director who shall serve as its principal executive officer. It shall be the duty of the Executive Director to arrange for the prompt execution of the plans and programs developed and the measures inaugurated by the  , to supervise the activities of the special attaches, and to submit frequent reports to   on the steps taken for the rescue and relief of war refugees.

6. The   shall be directly responsible to the President in carrying out the policy of this Government, as stated in the  , and the   shall report to him at frequent intervals concerning the steps taken for the rescue and relief of war refugees and shall make such recommendations as the   may deem appropriate for further action to overcome any difficulties encountered in the rescue and relief of war refugees.

 

 ,

 .
