Executive Order 9414—Regulations Relating to   and  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 7 of the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for vacations to Government employees, and for other purposes" (49 Stat.  ), as amended by the act of   (c. 737, 56 Stat.  ), and by section 7 of the act of  , entitled "An Act to standardize sick leave and extend it to all civilian employees" (49 Stat.  ), as amended by the act of  , entitled "An Act to amend the   and Sick Leave Acts of  " (54 Stat.  ), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the granting of   and   leave to civilian officers and employees of  ,  , and all corporations included within the provisions of the said acts of  , except as provided by Part VI hereof:

PART I—DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.1 As used in these regulations:

(a) "Employee" and "employees" include officer and officers, respectively.

(b) "Permanent employees" are those appointed without limitation as to length of service or for definite periods in excess of  , or for the duration of the present war and for   thereafter.

(c) "Temporary employees" are those appointed for definite periods of time net exceeding  .

(d) "Indefinite employees" are those appointed for the "duration of the job" and those who, although paid only when actually employed, are continuously employed or required to be available for duty for a period of not  , as distinguished from part-time or intermittent employees.

(e) "Accumulated leave" means the unused leave remaining to the credit of the employee at the close of any calendar year.

(f) "Court leave" means leave for attending court as a witness on behalf of   or the government of  , or for jury duty.

(g) "Break in service" means separation from the   service for a period of thirty or more calendar days.

(h) "Medical certificate" means a written statement signed by a registered practicing physician or other practitioner, certifying to the period of disability of the patient while he was undergoing professional treatment, or to the time of dental or optical treatments, or medical examination.

(i) "  of service" means a period of  .

(j) "Terminal leave" means the period between   of duty and the expiration of   leave.

PART II—ANNUAL LEAVE

ACCRUAL OF ANNUAL LEAVE

SECTION 2.1   leave shall be credited to employees as follows:

(a) Permanent employees shall be credited with leave at the rate of   per calendar month plus   in  , and   to employees who were continuously employed for  ; or, a credit of   may be given at the beginning of the calendar year in which it accrues in lieu of the   credit: Provided, that should an employee separate from the service before the expiration of the calendar year such credit will be reduced proportionately. The minimum credit for leave shall be the hourly equivalent of  , and additional credits shall be in multiples thereof.

(b) Temporary employees shall be credited with leave of   for   of service. After   of service such leave may be credited at   in which it accrues.

(c) Indefinite employees shall be credited with leave of   for   of service plus   when the service aggregates  .

SECTION 2.2 Accumulated   leave may be carried forward for use in succeeding   until It totals not exceeding  : Provided, that during the period of the present emergency   additional leave may be accumulated: Provided further, that when accumulated leave equals or exceeds  , further increase in accumulated leave shall be limited to   in any succeeding  .

GRANT OF ANNUAL LEAVE

SECTION 2.3   leave shall be granted to an employee on his request at such times as the heads of the departments and agencies may prescribe. employees during   of service shall not be granted leave in excess of the amount accrued to their credit. The minimum charge for   leave shall be one hour, and additional leave shall be charged in multiples of one hour.

SECTION 2.4 An employee who is to be separated from the service shall be entitled to the unused   leave standing to his credit, and the date of his separation shall be so fixed as to permit him to take such leave, and in no case, whether the separation be voluntary or involuntary, shall the separation become effective on a date prior to the date of termination of such leave: Provided, that an employee who elects to forfeit the leave standing to his credit may do so by filing a written notice to such effect.

SECTION 2.5 When an employee is absent from duty and in attendance in court as a witness in behalf of   or  , or for jury duty in any   court or court of  , the absence from duty shall not be charged against   leave but should be recorded as "court leave".

PART III—SICK LEAVE

ACCRUAL OF SICK LEAVE

SECTION 3.1

(a) Permanent employees shall be credited with sick leave at the rate of days per month. The minimum credit for sick leave shall be one hour, and additional credits shall be in multiples thereof.

(b) Temporary and indefinite employees shall be credited with   of sick leave for   of service.

(c) Sick leave accruing during any month of service shall be available at any time during that or any subsequent month.

SECTION 3.2 Unused sick leave shall be cumulative and available for future use: Provided, that the balance to the credit of the employee at   shall not exceed  .

GRANT OF SICK LEAVE

SECTION 3.3 Sick leave shall be granted to employees when they are incapacitated for the performance of their duties by sickness, injury, or pregnancy and confinement, or for medical, dental or optical examination or treatment, or when a member of the immediate family of the employee is afflicted with a contagious disease and requires the care and attendance of the employee, or when, through exposure to contagious disease, the presence of the employee at his post of duty would jeopardize the health of others. The minimum charge for sick leave shall be one hour, and additional leave shall be charged In multiples of one hour.

SECTION 3.4 An employee who is absent on account of sickness shall notify his supervisor as early as practicable on   of such absence, or as soon thereafter as possible. Failure to give such notice may result in the absence being charged to   leave or leave without pay, as the circumstances may justify. Requests for sick leave for medical, dental, or optical examination or treatment shall be submitted for approval prior to the beginning of the leave.

SECTION 3.5 Written application on the prescribed form for grant of sick leave shall be filed within   after the employee returns to duty. For periods of absence in excess of   the application must be supported by a medical certificate. Such certificate shall be filed within   after return to duty: Provided, that when a medical certificate cannot reasonably be obtained, a certificate of the employee relating the facts incident to the illness may be accepted. All applications for sick leave for medical, dental, or optical examination or treatment shall be supported by a medical certificate.

SECTION 3.6 When sickness occurs within a period of   leave and lasts in excess of  , the period of illness may be charged as sick leave and the charge against   leave reduced accordingly. Application for such substitution of sick leave for   leave shall be made within   after return to duty and shall be supported by a medical certificate.

SECTION 3.7 Sick leave may not be granted for a period immediately following a period of absence in a non-pay status, unless and until there is a return to actual duty, nor may such leave without pay be converted to sick leave.

ADVANCE OF SICK LEAVE

SECTION 3.8 In cases of serious disability or ailments, and when the exigencies of the situation so require, sick leave may be advanced to permanent and indefinite employees not in excess of  : Provided, that no advances of sick leave shall be made to any employee unless the absence from duty on account of illness is for a period, or periods, of 5 or  ; that every application for advance leave shall be supported by a medical certificate: that the total of such advances shall be charged against sick leave subsequently credited. Sick leave may be advanced irrespective of whether the employee has   leave to his credit.

SECTION 3.9 Sick leave shall not be advanced to an employee holding a limited appointment, or one expiring on a specified date, in excess of the total sick leave that would accrue during the remaining period of such appointment.

PART IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 4.1

(a) Leave shall be credited in units of hours on the basis of the established work day. Fractional parts of an hour that equal or exceed 1/2 hour shall be counted as one hour and fractions of less than 1/2 hour shall be disregarded.

(b) Whenever the number of hours of duty in an employee's work day is permanently changed the leave standing to his credit shall be converted to the proper number of hours based upon the new work day.

(c) The accumulated leave of each employee, as of  , shall be converted from days-hours-minutes to units of hours. Fractional parts of an hour that equal or exceed 1/2 hour shall be counted as one hour and fractions of less than 1/2 hour shall be disregarded.

SECTION 4.2

(a) Leave shall accrue to an employee while in a leave-with-pay status providing he returns to duty.

(b)   leave shall not accrue to an employee while on terminal leave, whether by separation, furlough, or resignation. In such cases the accrual of leave shall cease at the close of   on which he was present for duty, and the final date of separation shall not be extended by the granting of sick or court leave: Provided, that this subsection shall not apply to employees who are on terminal leave on the date of issuance of this order.

SECTION 4.3 Whenever a permanent employee is absent on leave without pay   during  , the credits for   leave shall be reduced   and for sick leave   for each such period aggregating  . Whenever such absences total   there shall be a further reduction of   in   leave credits for each such period: Provided, that when an employee absent because of injury received in line of duty requests to be carried on leave-without-pay, he shall, upon his return to duty, receive credit for accrued leave covering the period for which he was paid disability compensation by the employees' Compensation Commission.

SECTION 4.4 Leave shall not accrue during any period of suspension for disciplinary reasons which is in excess of  .

SECTION 4.5 Leave shall be charged only for absence upon days which an employee would otherwise work and receive pay and shall be exclusive of   which do not occur within a regular tour of duty, holidays, and all non-work days established by   statute or by executive or administrative order: Provided, that when a holiday is declared by general administrative order to be a work day an employee who absents himself from work without permission on   shall be subject to a deduction of   pay.

SECTION 4.6 Unavoidable or necessary absence from duty not in excess of thirty minutes, and tardiness, shall be handled administratively by excuse for adequate reasons, or by requiring additional work, or by a charge against overtime previously worked beyond regular hours, or by disciplinary action, or by a charge against   leave.

SECTION 4.7 In case of the separation of an employee who is indebted for advance leave, the employee shall refund the amount paid him for the period of such excess, or deduction therefor shall be made from any salary due him. This section shall not apply in cases of death, retirement, or reduction of force, or in case an employee who is not found eligible for retirement is unable to return to duty because of disability, evidence of which shall be supported by an acceptable medical certificate.

SECTION 4.8

(a) Leave without pay may be granted to an employee for a period not exceeding   regardless of whether he has leave standing to his credit.

(b) An employee whose active services are terminated as a result of the expiration of a statute in connection with the administration of which he is employed and who at the time of such expiration has not exhausted the leave standing to his credit shall be granted leave without pay or furlough for a maximum period of  .

SECTION 4.9 When an employee is appointed, reappointed, or transferred from one permanent position to another permanent position, without a break in service, his leave account shall be disposed of as follows:

(a) If the position is within the purview of the leave acts of  , the leave account shall be certified to the employing agency for credit or charge to the employee.

(b) If the position to which he is appointed or transferred is not within the purview of the leave acts of  , the employee shall be furnished with a statement of his leave account, and if he is subsequently appointed, reappointed, or transferred to another position within the purview of such acts, the leave shown to be due will be credited to his account.

SECTION 4.10

(a) When an employee is appointed, reappointed, or transferred without a break in service from a permanent position to a temporary position in the same agency, he shall be credited with such leave as may be due him or charged with any unaccrued leave which may have been advanced.

(b) When an employee is appointed, reappointed, or transferred without a break in service from a permanent position to a temporary position in a different agency he shall be furnished with a statement of his leave account and if subsequently he is appointed, reappointed, or transferred without a break in service to a permanent position the amount of leave shown to be due shall be credited to his account.

SECTION 4.11 Temporary employees who subsequently receive permanent appointments without break in servicp, either in the same or a different department or agency, shall be credited with such leave as may be due them, or charged with any unaccrued leave which may have been advanced.

PART V—ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 5.1 The heads or governing bodies of the various governmental agencies to which this executive order applies shall be responsible for the proper administration of these regulations so far as they pertain to employees under their respective jurisdictions, and they shall maintain an account of leave for each employee in accordance with methods prescribed by   and approved by the Director of  .

SECTION 5.2 The head or governing body of any governmental agency which has employees who work 24-hour shifts, or other uncommon tours of duty, is authorized to promulgate supplemental regulations consistent with these regulations for administering leave for such employees.

SECTION 5.3 Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to prevent the continuance of any leave differential existing prior to  , for the benefit of employees of   stationed without the continental limits of  . However, any department may, if it so desires, apply these regulations to employees stationed without the continental limits of  , subject to the continuance of such leave differential.

PART VI—EMPLOYEES  

SECTION 6.1 These regulations shall not apply to:

(a) Teachers and   of the public schools of  .

(b) Officers and employees of the Panama Canal and  , on the Isthmus of  .

(c) Temporary employees engaged on construction work at hourly rates.

(d) The Postmaster General and officers and employees in or under  , except those serving in the departmental service and in  .

(e) Employees not required to be continuously employed during regular tour of duty, such as (1) per diem or per hour employees engaged in an emergency who may be employed for more than one 7- or 8-hour shift within 24 hours during the emergency; (2) part-time or intermittent employees; (3) persons engaged under contract; (4) employees engaged temporarily for   on a piece-price basis; (5) employees who are paid at hourly rates but who are not engaged on construction work, such as mechanics, skilled laborers, and others engaged in various services on maintenance, repair, clean-up work, etc., where employment is more or less intermittent and not on a regular and continuous basis; (6) consultants employed and paid on the basis of "when actually employed"; and (7) employees paid on a fee basis, such as physicians, surgeons, and other consultants.

(f) Alien and native labor employed outside the continental limits of  : Provided, that the head or governing body of any governmental agency which employs alien and native labor outside the continental limits of   may promulgate regulations governing the granting of leave to such employees.

SECTION 6.2 The regulations contained herein relating to sick leave shall not apply to officers and members of the Police and Fire Departments of   other than civilian personnel.

PART VII—AMENDMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION

SECTION 7.1 By virtue of the authority vested in me by  ,  , (55 Stat. 838), it is hereby ordered that, for the period of the war,   is authorized to promulgate amendments to these regulations.

SECTION 7.2 This order shall supersede Executive Orders No. 83843 and No. 83853 of  , No. 93073 of  , and No. 9371 of  , and shall be effective as of  .

SECTION 7.3 This order shall be published in  .

 

 ,

 .
