Executive Order  —Establishing   in   of the President and  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to define further the functions and duties of   with respect to the unlimited national emergency declared by the President on  , and to provide for the development of commercial and cultural relations between   and thereby increasing the solidarity of this hemisphere and furthering the spirit of cooperation between the Americas in the interest of hemisphere defense, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is established within   of the President  , at the head of which there shall be a Coordinator appointed by the President. The Coordinator shall discharge and perform his duties and responsibilities under the direction and supervision of the President. The Coordinator shall serve as such without compensation, but shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.

2. Subject to such policies, regulations, and directions as the President may from time to time prescribe,   shall:

a. Serve as the center for the coordination of the cultural and commercial relations of the   affecting hemisphere defense.

b. Formulate and execute programs, in cooperation with   which, by effective use of governmental and private facilities in such fields as the arts and sciences, education and travel, the radio, the press, and the cinema, will further the national defense and strengthen the bonds between the Nations of the Western Hemisphere.

 , recommend, and execute programs in the commercial and economic fields which, by the effective use of governmental and private facilities, will further the commercial well-being of the Western Hemisphere.

  Assist in the coordination and carrying out of the purposes of Public Resolution No. 83 approved  , entitled "To authorize the Secretaries of War and of the   to assist   to increase their military and naval establishments, and for other purposes."

  existing laws and recommend such new legislation as may be deemed essential to the effective realization of the basic cultural and commercial objectives of the  's program of hemisphere solidarity.

f. Exercise and perform all powers and functions now or heretofore vested in   Between  , established by order of   on  .

  the President informed with respect to progress made in carrying out this  ; and perform such other related duties as the President may from time to time assign or delegate to it.

3. In the study of problems and in the execution of programs, it shall be the policy of   to collaborate with and to utilize the facilities of existing departments and agencies which perform functions and activities affecting the cultural and commercial aspects of hemisphere defense. Such departments and agencies are requested to cooperate with the Coordinator in arranging for appropriate clearance of proposed policies and measures involving the commercial and cultural aspects of   affairs.

4. Within the limits of funds appropriated or allocated for purposes encompassed by this  , the Coordinator may contract with and transfer funds to existing governmental agencies and institutions and may enter into contracts and agreements with individuals, educational, informational, commercial, scientific, and cultural institutions, associations, agencies, and industrial organizations, firms, and corporations.

5. The Coordinator is authorized and directed to take over and carry out the provisions of any contracts heretofore entered into by    , established by order of   on  . The Coordinator is further authorized to assume any obligations or responsibilities which have heretofore been undertaken by the said Office for and on behalf of  .

6. There is hereby established within  , consisting of the Coordinator as Chairman, one designee each from  ,  ,  , and  , the President of  , and such additional representatives from other agencies and departments as may be designated by the heads of such departments or agencies at the request of  . The   shall consider and correlate proposals with respect to the commercial, cultural, educational, and scientific aspects of hemisphere defense relations, and shall make recommendations to the appropriate Government departments and agencies.

7. The Coordinator may provide for the internal organization and management of  . The Coordinator shall obtain the President's approval for the establishment of the principal subdivisions of the   and the appointment of the heads thereof. The Coordinator may appoint such committees as may be required for the conduct of the activities of his office.

8. Within the limits of such funds as may be appropriated to the Coordinator or as may be allocated to him by the President, the Coordinator may employ necessary personnel and make provisions for necessary supplies, facilities, and services. However, the Coordinator shall use such statistical, informational, fiscal, personnel, and other general business services and facilities as may be made available to him through  .

 

 ,

 .
