Executive Order 7421—Procedure Relating to the Appointment of First, Second, and Third Class Postmasters
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes (U.S.C., title 5,  . 631), by the Act of   (U.S.C., title 39,  . 31), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered that whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of postmaster in any office of the first, second, or third class as the result of (1) death, (2) resignation, (3) removal, or (4) expiration of term, the following procedure shall be observed, in accordance with the provisions of   of   (22 Stat. 403), and the rules and regulations made pursuant to the said Act, in so far as such provisions may be applicable:

 . 1(a) The Postmaster General may recommend to the President the appointment of the Incumbent, or the appointment by promotion of a classified employee in the postal service in the vacancy office, provided either such incumbent or such classified employee is found eligible by   by noncompetitive examination; or

(b) Upon request of  ,   shall forthwith hold an open competitive examination to test the fitness of applicants to fill such vacancy and shall certify the results thereof to  , who shall thereupon submit to the President for appointment to fill the vacancy the name of the highest eligible unless it is established to the satisfaction of   that the character or residence of such eligible disqualifies him for appointment. This procedure shall be followed in all examinations announced by   subsequent to the date of this order.

 . 2. No person may be admitted to the examinations provided for in Section 1 hereof unless he has been a bona fide patron of the office for which a postmaster is to be appointed, for   immediately preceding the time fixed for the close of receipt of applications.

 . 3. No person who has passed his sixty-seventh birthday shall be appointed acting postmaster in any office of the first, second, or third class unless he is already In the postal service, nor shall any such person, except as provided in Section 4 hereof, be admitted to any examination which may be held for any such office under the provisions of Section 1.

 . 4. In all examinations held under the provisions of Section 1 hereof, the age limit prescribed in Section 3 shall be waived as to candidates who are entitled to military preference as a result of service In the World War, the Spanish-American War, or the   insurrection, and in rating the examination papers of such candidates   shall add five points to their earned ratings and make certification to   in accordance with their relative positions thus acquired. The time such candidates were in the service during such wars may be reckoned by the   in making up the required length of business experience.

 . 5. This order supersedes all prior Executive orders affecting or relating to the appointment of postmasters to post offices of the first, second, and third classes.

 

 ,

 .
