Executive Order 6233— . 7(a)
 
 

ELIGIBILITY FOR MEDICAL CARE

Whereas

, Section 6, Title I, of Public No. 2, 73d  , entitled "An Act To maintain the credit of  ", as amended by Section 1, Public No. 78,    , entitled "An Act Making appropriations for   and sundry independent executive bureaus, boards, commissions, and offices, for  , and for other purposes", provides:

"In addition to the pensions provided in this title the Administrator of   is hereby authorized under such limitations as may be prescribed by the President, and within the limits of existing   facilities, to furnish to men discharged from the  ,  ,  , or   for disabilities incurred in line of duty and to veterans of any war, including the   rebellion and the   insurrection, domiciliary care where they are suffering with permanent disabilities, tuberculosis, or neuropsychiatric ailments and medical and hospital treatment for diseases or injuries."

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said law, the following regulation is hereby promulgated cancelling  . 7 and substituting therefor  . 7(a) to read as follows:

I. The Administrator of  , witliin the limits of   facilities, is authorized in his discretion to furnish to honorably discharged veterans of any war, including the   rebellion and the   insurrection, and to men honorably discharged from  ,  ,  , or   for disabilities incurred in line of duty, such medical, surgical and dental services as may be found to be reasonably necessary for diseases or injuries incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military or naval service. Such persons may also be furnished with such supplies including dental appliances, wheel chairs, artificial limbs, trusses, and similar appliances, including special clothing made necessary by the wearing of prosthetic appliances, as the Administrator of   may determine to be useful and reasonably necessary, which dental appliances, wheel chaws, artificial limbs, trusses, special clothing, and similar appliances may be procured by   in such manner, either by purchase or manufacture, as the Administrator of   may determine to be advantageous and reasonably necessary.

 

 ,

 .
