Executive Order 8820—Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C. S 132) and the act of  , 44 Stat. 887 (22 U.S.C. S 211a), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as Chapter XXI thereof:

CHAPTER XXI-- ,  , REGISTRATION, AND PROTECTION

 

XXI-1.

Duties in Connection with  .

Officers of   shall familiarize themselves with those provisions of the laws of   which relate to the acquisition and loss of   nationality and shall perform such duties in connection therewith as may be provided for by law or by administrative regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  .

AMERICAN  

XXI-2.

Services Performed by Officers of     and Other Travel Documents.

Officers of   shall perform the following described services in connection with   passports and other travel documents:

(a) Accept applications for service passports and, when designated to do so by the Secretary of   under authority contained in the act of  , 44 Stat. 887 (22 U.S.C. S 211a), grant and issue such passports to   nationals who owe allegiance to   in accordance with the provisions of the laws of  , with such provisions of Executive Order No. 7856 of  , entitled "Rules Governing the Granting and Issuing of Passports in  " as may be applicable to the issuance of passports abroad, and with such administrative regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

(b) When required to do so by the Secretary of  , issue such documents other than passports as are prescribed by the terms of  .

(c) Verify, renew, amend, extend, and cancel   passports in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe.

(d) Perform such other miscellaneous services in connection with   passports and other travel documents as are required under the terms of  .

REGISTRATION OF AMERICAN NATIONALS ABROAD

XXI-3.

Duties of Officers of   in Connection with Registration of Nationals.

Officers of   shall perform such duties in connection with the registration of   nationals abroad as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

PROTECTION OF AMERICAN NATIONALS ABROAD

XXI-4.

Duties of Officers of   in Connection with Protection Abroad of  .

Officers of   shall perform such duties in connection with the protection of   nationals abroad as may be imposed upon them by rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of  .

CANCELATION OF REGULATIONS

The following-named provisions of   of   are hereby canceled:

PART I

Chapters X, XI, and  

PART II

Chapter X

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS

The following-described Executive orders are hereby revoked:

Executive Order No.  -A, dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No. 4605-A, dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

 

 ,

 .
