Executive Order  —Prescribing Regulations Relating to Annual Leave of Government Employees
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 7 of the act of  , entitled "An Act to provide for vacations to Government employees and for other purposes" (Public No. 471, 74th  ), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the granting of   leave to civilian officers and employees of  ,  , and all corporations included within the provisions of section 6 of the said act, except as provided in Part III hereof:

PART I—DEFINITIONS

 . 1. As used in these regulations:

(a) "Employee" and "employees" Include officer and officers, respectively.

(b) "Accumulated leave" means the unused   leave not exceeding   which has accrued during   prior to  .

(c) "Current   leave" means the leave authorized by statute for  .

(d) "Current accrued leave" means that part of the current   leave which bears the same ratio to the current   leave that the expired part of   bears to  .

(e) "Unaccrued leave" means that part of the current   leave which bears the same ratio to the current   leave as the unexpired part of   bears to  .

PART II—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2. Permanent employees who have been employed continuously for   or more and who do not contemplate leaving the service during   shall be entitled to   leave with pay at any time during such calendar year not in excess of  , and in addition may be granted accumulated leave, provided that the total leave granted at any time dining a calendar year shall not exceed the amount of the accumulated leave and the current accrued leave, except that in unusually meritorious cases employees may be granted both accumulated and current   leave.

 . 3. Unaccrued leave shall be granted only with the express understanding that if such leave is not later earned during  , deductions will be made for the unearned portion from any salary due the employee, or any deductions in the retirement fund to the credit of the employee.

 . 4. Employees entering the service by original appointment or by reinstatement shall be entitled to   leave with pay accruing at the rate of   for   of service rendered until the completion of   service. Emergency employees and employees appointed for an indefinite period shall be entitled to   leave with pay accruing at the rate of   per month for   of service, and may in addition thereto be granted accumulated leave. Employees appointed for an indefinite period shall include those in the

field service employed at manufacturing and repair establishments, such as navy yards, gun factories, naval stations, arsenals, etc.

 . 5. Employees transferred or reappointed without break in service from one permanent position to another permanent position within the same or a different governmental agency shall at the time of the transfer be credited with accumulated leave and charged with unaccrued leave advanced.

 . 6. An employee voluntarily separated from the service without prejudice during any calendar year shall be entitled to all accumulated leave plus current accrued leave up to the date of separation.

 . 7. The date of a discharge of an employee who is involuntarily separated from the service other than for cause due to his own misconduct shall be fixed to permit the allowance of all accumulated leave and current accrued leave.

 . 8. Leave shall be granted at such time or times as may be deemed to be in the public interest.

 . 9.   leave shall not accrue during a period of leave without pay when such absence is continuous for   or more in any calendar year.

 . 10. Leave without pay shall not be granted until all accumulated leave and current accrued leave allowable under these regulations is exhausted.

 . 11. Employees shall be charged with   leave only for absence on  .  , legal holidays, and holidays declared by executive order and non-work days established by administrative order in accordance with law occurring within a period of   leave shall not be charged as   leave. Persons employed on the basis of a   work week, whose duties require service on   or  , shall be charged     leave for absence on any   or   they are required to work.

 . 12. The minimum charge for   leave shall be 15 minutes.   leave granted for   shall be charged In the ratio that the amount of   leave granted bears to the number of work hours of the regular work day prevailing in the agency concerned. For the purposes of this section,   and part holidays shall not be considered regular work days, except as may be required under section 11 hereof.

 . 13.   leave shall not be granted with pay at the beginning of a calendar year immediately following a period of absence in a non-pay status in   unless and until there shall have been a return to duty, at which time the leave may be retroactively granted. Leave without pay under any other circumstances may not later be converted into   leave.

 . 14. Temporary employees shall be granted   leave for   of service beginning  . For leave purposes, persons who are appointed for definite periods of time not exceeding   shall be considered temporary employees.

 . 15. Temporary employees who subsequently receive permanent or probational appointments in the same department without break in service shall be entitled to   leave at the rate of   to the date of permanent appointment and thereafter at the rate of  . Of temporary employees, only those who subsequently accept permanent appointments without break in service may be credited with accumulated leave earned prior to  .

 . 16. Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to prevent the continuance of any leave differential existing prior to  , for the benefit of employees of   stationed without the continental limits of  .

 . 17. The   leave authorized by these regulations shall, except as to temporary employees, be recorded and administered on a calendar-year basis.

 .  . The heads or governing bodies of the various governmental agencies to which this Executive Order applies shall be responsible for the proper administration of these regulations insofar as they pertain to the granting of   leave to employees under their respective jurisdiction; and they may, within the limits authorized by law, issue such regulations as are not inconsistent with these regulations.

PART III—EMPLOYEES EXCEPTED

Sec. 19. These regulations shall not apply to:

(a) Teachers and   of the public schools of  .

(b) Officers and employees of the Panama Canal and   on the Isthmus of  .

(c) Temporary employees engaged on construction work at hourly rates.

(d) The Postmaster General and officers and employees in or under  , except those serving in the departmental service and in  .

(e) Persons paid security or prevailing wages from funds allocated by   on state, municipal, or other public but non-Federal projects, or on a Federal project:

Provided,

that   leave shall be granted in accordance with these regulations to employees in the central office of   in   and at district and local headquarters, and to other employees in administrative or clerical positions who receive other than security or prevailing wages, as prescribed in Executive Order No.   of  .

(f)  Employees not required to be continuously employed during regular tour of duty, such as: (1) employees who are paid only when actually employed; (2) per diem or per hour employees engaged in an emergency who may be employed for more than one 7- or 8-hour shift within 24 hours during the emergency; (3) part-time or intermittent employees; (4) persons engaged under contract; (5) employees engaged temporarily for   on a piece-price basis; (6) employees who are paid at hourly rates but who are not engaged on construction work, such as mechanics, skilled laborers, and others engaged in various services on maintenance, repair, clean-up work, etc., where employment is more or less intermittent and not on a regular and continuous basis; and (7) employees paid on a fee basis, such as physicians, surgeons, and other consultants.

PART IV—RATIFICATION: REVOCATION: EFFECTIVE DATE

 . 20. All temporary regulations issued by the heads of the various departments and independent establishments under authority of Executive Order No. 7321 of  , are hereby ratified. All such temporary regulations and all other regulations relating to the granting of   leave are hereby revoked insofar as they are inconsistent with these regulations.

 .  . These regulations shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .
