Executive Order  —Prescribing Regulations Governing the Granting of Allowances for Quarters and   to Enlisted Men
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 10 of the act of  , Public Law 607, 77th  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the granting of (1) allowances for quarters and subsistence to enlisted men of the  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   who are not furnished quarters or rations in kind, and (2) allowances for quarters to enlisted men of the first, second, and third grades in the active military, naval, or   service of   having dependents as defined in section 4 of the said act, for periods during which public quarters are not provided and available for such dependents:

ALLOWANCES FOR QUARTERS AND   TO ENLISTED MEN NOT FURNISHED QUARTERS OR RATIONS IN KIND

TABLE I

Men on duty where quarters or rations in kind are not furnished shall be granted   allowances as follows:

TABLE II

Men traveling on duty where cooked or travel rations are not furnished for the journey shall be granted   allowances as follows:

Payments of allowances for quarters and subsistence may be made to enlisted men not   in advance, except that as to men proceeding to or from, a station beyond the continental limits of   or in  , such payments may be made not   in advance. The heads of the   concerned may prescribe such additional regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph.

ALLOWANCES TO ENLISTED MEN OF THE FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD GRADES HAVING DEPENDENTS AS DEFINED IN SECTION 4 OF THE ACT OF JUNE  

Each enlisted man of the first, second, or third grade in the active military, naval, or   service of   who is not entitled to a money allowance for quarters in a non-travel status under the provisions of section 10 of the said act of  , and who has a dependent as defined in section 4 thereof, shall be entitled to receive for any period during which public quarters are not provided and available for such dependent, the money allowances for quarters prescribed for enlisted men in a non-travel status by Table I above. Any such enlisted man shall continue to be entitled to this allowance although receiving the allowance for quarters in a non-travel status prescribed by Table I above, if by reason of orders of competent authority his dependent is prevented from dwelling with him.

The term "dependent" as defined in section 4 of the said act of  , shall include at all times and in all places a lawful wife and unmarried children  . It shall also include the father or mother of the person concerned provided he or she is in fact dependent upon such person for his or her chief support:

Provided

, That the term "children" shall be held to include stepchildren and adopted children when such stepchildren or adopted children are in fact dependent upon the person claiming dependency allowance.

This order shall supersede Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No. 8704 of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 8759 of  , and Executive Order No. 9105 of  ; and shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .

Related Images

60960-1.jpg

60960-2.jpg

60960-3.jpg
