Executive Order  —Supplementing the Executive Order Establishing   for  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , particularly by  ,  , as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to provide for the more effective unification of the agencies concerned with foreign economic affairs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.  , existing pursuant to paragraph 2 of Executive Order No. 8839,  , as amended by Executive Order No.  ,  , is terminated. There is established in  , at the head of which shall be a Director, appointed by the President, who shall exercise the functions, powers, and duties of  . The Director shall receive such salary, travel, subsistence, or other allowances as the President may determine.

There are transferred to   for use in connection with the exercise and performance of its functions, powers, and duties so much of the unexpended balances, appropriations, allocations and other funds now available for, as well as all the personnel, property, and records heretofore used in the administration of the functions, powers, and duties of,  .

No part of any funds appropriated or made available under Public Law 139, approved  , shall be used, directly or indirectly, after  , by   for the procurement of services, supplies, or equipment outside   except for the purpose of executing general economic programs or policies formally approved in writing by a majority of   and such writing has been filed with the Secretary of   prior to any such expenditure.

2.  ,  ,  , and   and their functions, powers, and duties, together with the functions, powers, and duties of   and of the Secretary of   with respect to them are transferred to  . All personnel, property, records, funds (including all unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds now available), contracts, assets, liabilities, and capital stock of these corporations, together with so much of the personnel, records, and property of   used in the administration of these corporations as the Director of   shall determine, are transferred with these corporations to   for use in connection with the exercise and performance of its functions, powers, and duties. The Director of   may reconstitute the Boards of Directors of these corporations and take such other action as he deems necessary in respect of them to carry out the purposes of this  .

3. (a) Until such time as the   shall provide other means of financing, the Secretary of   and   are authorized and directed to supply necessary funds to the corporations transferred to   by this   through loans, using for this purpose all the borrowing powers and unobligated funds of  . Such funds shall be supplied at such times and in such amounts and in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as the Director of War Mobilization, on the request of the Director of  , may from time to time determine. The disbursement of the funds so supplied shall be under the exclusive direction of the Director of  , except as otherwise provided in this  .

(b) The functions, powers, and duties and outstanding contracts and obligations relating to activities and transactions in or pertaining to foreign countries, now vested in, or in the name of, any corporation created and organized under Section 5(d) of  , or of any other corporation organized by  , shall, unless the Director of War Mobilization otherwise determines, be transferred to the corporation or corporations designated by the Director of  , and the charter and by-laws of the corporations affected by such transfers, so far as necessary, shall be amended accordingly. Following such transfers, no corporations created and organized by  , other than those transferred to   by this  , shall exercise any of its powers and functions in regard to any activity or transaction in or pertaining to any foreign country except as ordered by the Director of War Mobilization. The Secretary of  ,  , and any corporation organized by it, shall execute and deliver all instruments which may be deemed necessary by the Director of War Mobilization to carry out the provisions of this  .

4. The functions of   shall include the authority to arrange for the unification and coordination of the activities of   relating to foreign supply, foreign procurement, and other foreign economic affairs in conformity with the foreign policy of   as defined by the Secretary of  . In providing for such unification   may utilize the facilities of other departments and agencies, including the machinery for the coordination of foreign economic affairs established in  .

5. All prior Executive Orders and directives in so far as they are in conflict herewith are amended accordingly.

 

 ,

 .
