Executive Order 6700—Amendment of Executive Order No.  , of  ,  
 
 

Executive Order No.  , of  , establishing  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

(1) By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under titles I and II of   (ch. 90, 48 Stat. 195), there is hereby established a   (hereinafter referred to as "the Board"), which shall be composed of a chairman to be appointed by the President; one representative to be designated by each of the following officers from one of the statistical agencies under his direction:

The Secretary of the  ,

The Secretary of Agriculture,

The Secretary of Commerce,

The Secretary of  ,

The Governor of  ,

The Administrator for Industrial Recovery;

one representative to be designated by  ; and such other persons as these representatives may from time to time elect to full or limited membership, provided that the total number of members of the   shall not exceed 17.

(2) The Board shall be concerned with all statistical services in   which are useful for carrying out the purposes of  , including both those services conducted by or subject to the supervision of   and those conducted by other public or private agencies.

(3) The Board shall plan and promote the improvement, development, and coordination of the services specified in paragraph (2) and shall plan and promote economy and the elimination of unnecessary duplication in such services.

(4) The   may undertake statistical activities of an experimental character and may collect, analyze, and publish data concerning the statistical services specified in paragraph (2); but the   itself shall not engage in any other statistical services.

(5) The   may make an investigation of any statistical service specified in paragraph (2), either on request of the agency conducting or supervising such service, or on its own motion with the consent of such agency. After making such investigation, the   may, with the consent of the agency concerned, publish or communicate to interested parties its findings of fact, conclusions, and recommendations with respect to such service.

(6) In respect to any of the statistical services specified in paragraph (2), the   may request from any   agency information, papers, reports, and access to records concerning any existing or proposed statistical work of that agency or subject to its supervision; and such agency is requested to comply with any such request the   shall make.

(7) Nothing in this order shall be construed to prevent any statistical agency from publishing its own findings of fact, interpretations thereof, or opinions based thereon.

(8) The Board is hereby authorized to appoint, employ, and fix the compensation of such officers, agents, and employees (subject to the provisions of Executive Order No.  , of  , as amended), and to make such expenditures of the funds made available to it, as it may require in the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its duties.

(9)   is hereby directed to allot to the  , in addition to the allotment of $20,000 already made, such funds as in the opinion of the Director of the   may be necessary to provide adequately for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 .
