Executive Order  —Establishing    
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me under title I of   (48 Stat. 195;  , title 15,  . 701) and under a joint resolution approved   (Public Resolution 44, 73d Cong.), and in order to effectuate said act and joint resolution, I,  , President of  , do hereby issue the following Executive order:

Section 1. There is hereby created in connection with   a board to be known as     which shall be composed of the Right Reverend  , chairman,  , and  . Each member of the   shall receive necessary traveling and subsistence expenses and each member who, prior to the issuance of this order, was not an officer or employee of   shall in addition thereto receive $20 per diem.

 . 2. The Board shall have authority to appoint without regard to the provisions of the civil-service laws or the Classification Act of  , as amended, no more than 15 employees and to incur financial obligations necessary for the proper performance of its duties. Obligations and expenses incurred under the authority of this order shall be paid out of the funds appropriated by the Fourth Deficiency Act,  , approved   (48 Stat. 274, 275).

 . 3. The   is hereby authorized in connection with the longshoremen's strike on the Pacific Coast and labor problems relating thereto—

(

a

) To investigate issues, facts, practices, and activities of employers or employees that are burdening or obstructing, or threatening to burden or obstruct, the free flow of interstate or foreign commerce; and

(

b

) To hear, make findings of fact, and take appropriate affirmative action regarding complaints of discrimination against, or discharge of employees; and

(

c

) To act as voluntary arbitrator upon request; and

(

d

) To exercise all other powers conferred upon a   established under the authority of Public Resolution 44, Seventy-third  ; and

(

e

) To make a report to the President through the Secretary of   of the activities, the findings, the investigations, and the recommendations of the  .

 . 4. The Board shall cease to exist when, in the opinion of the President, it has completed the duties it is authorized to perform.

 

Approval recommended:

FRANCES PERKINS,

The Secretary of  

 ,

 .
