Executive Order 8455—Designating Additional Construction Agencies and Providing for the Planning and Programming of Construction Undertaken or Aided by  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and by the laws of  , including the Employment Stabilization Act of   (46 Stat.  ),  ,   (42 Stat. 20), and Reorganization Plan No. I, made effective  , by Public Resolution No. 20, 76th  , approved  , it is ordered as follows:

1. I hereby designate as "construction agencies", in addition to those agencies listed in section 2 (d) of the said Employment Stabilization Act of  , all departments, independent offices and establishments, bureaus, agencies, and divisions of  , including Government-owned corporations, which now or may hereafter:

(a) Plan, initiate, undertake, or engage in construction financed in whole or in part by  , by contract, force account, Government plant and hired labor, or other similar procedures (all such agencies being hereinafter referred to as "construction agencies (Class I)"), or

(b) Aid construction activity through grants-in-aid, loans, or other forms of financial assistance or through guaranties from   (all such agencies being hereinafter referred to as "construction agencies (Class II) ").

2. In order to facilitate and assist in the advance planning of construction undertaken by  , all construction agencies (Class I) shall prepare and keep up-to-date, in accordance with section 8 of the Employment Stabilization Act of  ,   advance plans and programs of their public-works construction, to be financed in whole or in part by  , and shall submit reports on such plans and programs and on any such construction in the manner herein provided.

3. Beginning with the submission to   in   of the estimates for the Budget for  , each construction agency (Class I) shall submit   with its budget estimates, for the joint use of   and  , its   advance plan and program of public-works construction with a schedule of priorities for the projects assigned for construction to each of  .

4. Each construction agency (Class I) shall submit a report to  , for the joint use of the   and  , when the agency undertakes any examination, survey, investigation, or research directed toward the preparation of any reports, plans, programs, or estimates of construction costs for any project proposed to be constructed and financed in whole or in part by  .

5. Each construction agency (Class I) shall submit a report to  , for the joint use of the   and  , when the agency completes any examination, survey, investigation, or research directed toward the preparation of any reports, plans, programs, or estimates of construction costs for any project to be constructed and financed in whole or in part by  . Any subsequent revision by a construction agency (Class I) of an original report on any such examination, survey, investigation, or research shall be reported to the   in the manner prescribed herein.

6. Each construction agency (Class I), in submitting any report to the   or to any committee or member thereof on the results of any examination, survey, investigation, or research directed toward the preparation of any reports, plans, programs, or estimates of construction costs for any project to be constructed and financed in whole or in part by  , shall include therein a statement as to the relationship of such report to the program of the President. Such reports shall be submitted to   before the agency submits them to the   or to any committee or member thereof, and   shall advise the agency as to the relationship of such report to the program of the President.

7. Each construction agency (Class I) shall make such reports to  , for the joint use of the   and  , as may be requested by the   or required by the rules and regulation, issued hereunder, on the status of any project being constructed and financed in whole or in part by  .

8. Each construction agency (Class II) shall submit to  , for the joint use of the   and  , such reports as the   may request on any of its plans, programs, or estimates (including any examination, survey, investigation, or research directed toward the preparation of any reports, plans, programs, or estimates) of the cost of any construction for which financial aid, assistance, or guaranty is to be provided by such agency, or on the status of any construction activity receiving any financial aid, assistance, or guaranty from such agency.

9. The Director of   and the Chairman of   shall jointly make such detailed rules and regulations as may be necessary to provide for the effective operation of this   order, and whenever necessary shall jointly determine whether a particular agency is to be regarded as a construction agency (Class I) or as a construction agency (Class II).

10. If the Director of   and the Chairman of   shall jointly find that the immediate or future application of any or all of the provisions of this   order or of any rules and regulations issued hereunder is impracticable, they may, upon their own initiative or upon request from the chief of any construction agency, temporarily exempt any such agency or any project from such provisions.

 

 ,

 .
