Executive Order 6166— 
 
 

Whereas

section 16 of the act of   (Public, No. 428, 47 Stat.  ), provides for reorganizations within the executive branch of the  ; requires the President to investigate and determine what reorganizations are necessary to effectuate the purposes of the statute; and authorizes the President to make such reorganizations by Executive order; and

Whereas

I have investigated the organization of all executive and administrative agencies of the Government and- have determined that certain regroupings, consolidations, transfers, and abolitions of executive agencies and functions thereof are necessary to accomplish the purposes of section 16;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the aforesaid authority, I do hereby order that:

Section 1. —

Procurement

The function of determination of policies and methods of procurement, warehousing, and distribution of property, facilities, structures, improvements, machinery, equipment, stores, and supplies exercised by any agency is transferred to   in  , at the head of which shall be a Director of Procurement.

  is transferred to  , except that the buildings of the   shall be administered by   end the administration of post office buildings is transferred to  .   is abolished.

In respect of any kind of procurement, warehousing, or distribution for any agency   may, with the approval of the President, (a)undertake the performance of such procurement, warehousing, or distribution itself, or (b)permit such agency to perform such procurement, warehousing, or distribution, or (c) entrust such performance to some other agency, or (d) avail itself in part of any of these recourses, according as it may deem desirable in the interest of economy and efficiency. When   has prescribed the manner of procurement, warehousing, or distribution of any thing, no agency shall thereafter procure, warehouse, or distribute such thing in any manner other than so prescribed.

The execution of work now performed by   shall remain with said corps, subject to the responsibilities herein vested in  .

The Procurement Division shall also have control of all property, facilities, structures, machinery, equipment, stores, and supplies not necessary to the work of any agency; may have custody thereof or entrust custody to any other agency; and shall furnish the same to agencies as need therefor may arise.

The Fuel Yards of   are transferred to  .

  is abolished, and its records are transferred to   if and when said administration is authorized and established.

Section 2. —

National Parks, Buildings, and  .

All functions of administration of public buildings, reservations, national parks, national monuments, and national cemeteries are consolidated in an  , and   in  , at the head of which shall be a Director of  , and  ; except that where deemed desirable there may be excluded from this provision any public building or reservation which is chiefly employed as a facility in the work of a particular agency. This transfer and consolidation of functions shall include, among others, those of   of   and   which are located within the continental limits of  . National cemeteries located in foreign countries shall be transferred to  , and those located in insular possessions under the jurisdiction of   shall be administered by    .

The functions of the following agencies are transferred to    , and the agencies are abolished:

  of  

Rock Creek and   by   for the purposes of  , the George Rogers Clark Sesquicentennial Commission, and the Rush-more   shall be administered by  .

Section 3. —

Investigations

All functions now exercised by   with respect to the granting of permits under the national prohibition laws are transferred to   in  .

All functions now exercised by   with respect to investigations and all the functions now performed by   are transferred to and consolidated in a   in  , at the head of which shall be a Direct-or of Investigation.

All other functions now performed by   are transferred to such divisions in   as in the judgment of the Attorney General may be desirable.

Section 4. —

Disbursement

The function of disbursement of moneys of   exercised by any agency is transferred to   and, together with   of that  , is consolidated in a  , at the head of which shall be a Chief Disbursing Officer.

  is authorized to establish local offices, or to delegate the exercise of its functions locally to officers or employees of other agencies, according as the interests of efficiency and economy may require.

  shall disburse moneys only upon the certification of persons by law duly authorized to incur obligations upon behalf of  . The function of accountability for improper certification shall be transferred to such persons, and no disbursing officer shall be held accountable therefor.

Section 5. —

Claims by or against  

The functions of prosecuting in the courts of   claims and demands by, and offenses against,  , and of defending claims and demands against the  , । and of supervising the work of   attorneys, marshals, and clerks in connection therewith, now exercised by any agency or officer, are transferred to  .

As to any case referred to   for prosecution or defense in the courts, the function of decision whether and in what manner to prosecute, or to defend, or to compromise, or to appeal, or to abandon prosecution or defense, now exercised by any agency or officer, is transferred to  .

For the exercise of such of his functions as are not transferred to   by the foregoing two paragraphs,     is transferred from   to  .

Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the function of any agency or officer with respect to cases at any stage prior to reference to the   for prosecution or defense.

Section 6. —

Insular Courts

  for  ,   of   for the Panama Canal Zone, and   of   of   are transferred to  .

Section 7. —

Solicitors

The Solicitor for   is transferred from   to  .

The Solicitor for   is transferred from   to  .

Section 8. —

Internal Revenue

The Bureaus of Internal Revenue and of   are consolidated in a  , at the head of which shall be a Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

Section 9. —

Assistant Secretary of  .

The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Aeronautics shall be an Assistant Secretary of   and shall perform such functions as the Secretary of   may designate.

Section 10. —

Official Register

The function of preparation of   is transferred from   to  .

Section 11. —

Statistics of Cities

The function of     of compiling statistics of cities under 100,000 population is abolished for  .

Section 12. —

 

The functions of   Including those over and in respect to   are transferred to  , and   is abolished.

Section 13. —

 

  is abolished, and its records, property, facilities, equipment, and supplies are transferred to  .

Section 14. —

Immigration and Naturalization

The Bureaus of Immigration and of   are consolidated as an Immigration and Naturalization Service of  , at the head of which shall be a Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.

Section 15. —

Vocational Education

The functions of   are transferred to  , and the   shall act in an advisory capacity without compensation.

Section 16. —

Apportionment of Appropriations

.

The functions of making, waiving, and modifying apportionments of appropriations are transferred to the Director of  .

Section 17. —

Coordinating Service

.

The federal   is abolished.

Section 18.

The following functions are abolished in part: Cooperative vocational education and rehabilitation, 25 percent thereof.

Payments for agricultural experiment stations, 25 percent thereof.

Cooperative agricultural extension work, 25 percent thereof.

Endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts, 25 percent thereof.

Section 19. —

General Provisions

.

Each agency, all the functions of which are transferred to or consolidated with another agency, is abolished.

The records pertaining to an abolished agency or a function disposed of, disposition of which is not elsewhere herein provided for, shall be transferred to the successor. If there be no successor agency, and such abolished agency be within a department, said records shall be disposed of as the head of such department may direct.

The property, facilities, equipment, and supplies employed in the work of an abolished agency or the exercise of a function disposed of, disposition of which is not elsewhere herein provided for, shall, to the extent required, be transferred to the successor agency. Other such property, facilities, equipment, and supplies shall be transferred to  .

All personnel employed in connection with the work of an abolished agency or function disposed of shall be separated from the service of  , except that the head of any successor agency, subject to my approval, may, within a period of   after transfer or consolidation, reappoint any of such personnel required for the work of the successor agency without reexamination or loss of civil-service status.

Section 20. —

Appropriations

Such portions of the unexpended balances of appropriations for any abolished agency or function disposed of shall be transferred to the successor agency as the Director of the   shall deem necessary.

Unexpended balances of appropriations for an abolished agency or function disposed of. not so transferred by the Director of the  , shall, in accordance with law, be impounded and returned to the  .

Section 21. —

Definitions

As used in this order—

"Agency" means any commission, independent establishment, board, bureau, division, service, or office in the executive branch of the Government.

"Abolished agency" means any agency which is abolished, transferred, or consolidated.

"Successor agency" means any agency to which is transferred some other agency or function, or which results from the consolidation of other agencies or functions.

"Function disposed of" means any function eliminated or transferred.

Section 22. —

Effective Date

In accordance with law, this order shall become effective   from its date; Provided, That in case it shall appear to the President that the interests of economy require that any transfer, consolidation, or elimination be delayed beyond the date this order becomes effective, he may, in his discretion, fix a later date therefor, and he may far like cause further defer such date from time to time.

 

 ,

 .
