Executive Order  —   
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 40 Stat. 559, as extended by the act of  , 41 Stat.  ,  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations pertaining to documents required of aliens entering   (which regulations shall be applicable to   and to   citizens who are not citizens of   except as may be otherwise provided by special laws and regulations governing the entry of such persons):

PART I

1. Nonimmigrants must present unexpired passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, as prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid passport visas, except in the following cases:

(a) A nonimmigrant alien coming within a category and domiciled in a country, island, or territory of the Western Hemisphere, specified in such regulations as may be issued by the Secretary of  , if passing in transit through   or entering   temporarily.

(b) A nonimmigrant alien lawfully admitted into   who later goes in transit from one part of   to another through foreign contiguous territory, if specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

(c) A nonimmigrant alien child born subsequent to the issuance of the passport visa of an accompanying parent, the visa not having expired, if specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

(d) An alien who has previously been legally admitted into   with a diplomatic visa or with a passport visa as a nonimmigrant as defined by section 3 (1) or section 3 (6) of the Immigration Act of   (43 Stat. 153, 154), who has maintained the status in which he was admitted and who has departed temporarily from   and returned within  , having proceeded only to such countries, islands and territories of the Western Hemisphere as may be specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

2. A nonimmigrant alien not included in any of the foregoing exceptions who is passing in transit through   may present, in lieu of a passport visa, a transit certificate granted by an authorized officer of  .

3. A nonimmigrant alien not included in any of the exceptions specified in the preceding paragraphs who enters   for a period not exceeding  , landing temporarily while the vessel on which he is a passenger is in port or crossing the border, entering and departing via the same port of entry, may present, in lieu of a passport visa, a limited entry certificate granted by an authorized officer of  .

4. The Secretary of   is authorized in his discretion to waive the passport and visa requirements in cases of emergency for nonimmigrants, except that the Governor of   is authorized in his discretion to waive the requirements in cases of emergency for nonimmigrant aliens applying for admission at a port of entry of  .

5. No passport visa, transit certificate, or limited entry certificate shall be granted to an alien whose entry would be contrary to the public safety or to an alien who is unable to establish a legitimate purpose or reasonable need for the proposed entry.

PART II

1. Immigrants must present unexpired passports, or official documents in the nature of passports, issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance, or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid immigration visas granted by the consular officers of   in accordance with the requirements of the Immigration Act of   and the regulations issued thereunder, except in the following cases:

(a) An alien immigrant child born subsequent to the issuance of the immigration visa of an accompanying parent, the visa not having expired.

(b) An alien immigrant child born during the temporary visit abroad of an alien mother who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, under such regulations as may be prescribed.

(c) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence and who is the bearer of a border identification card issued by the immigration authorities, if specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

(d) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed temporarily from   and returned within  , having proceeded only to such countries, islands, and territories of the Western Hemisphere as may be specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

(e) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, reentering from a journey beginning in an   port, without transshipment from the original vessel to another vessel.

(f) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed therefrom and has returned from a temporary visit abroad, and who presents an unexpired permit to reenter, issued pursuant to section 10 of the Immigration Act of  .

2. An immigrant   national who on   (whether adult or minor), was a bona fide resident of   or adjacent islands which comprised    , and who, in conformity with   of the treaty between   and   of  , has preserved his allegiance to  , may present a passport visa, in lieu of an immigration visa, for entry into  . Such aliens may be admitted into   without regard to the provisions of the Immigration Act of  , except section 23. (Act of  , ch. 400, 44 Stat. 657.)

3. In such classes of cases and under such conditions as may by regulations be prescribed, the immigration visa requirements may be waived, under section 13 (b) of the Immigration Act of  , and the passport requirements may also be waived, for an alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed therefrom, and is returning from a temporary visit abroad.

4. In such classes of cases and under such conditions as may by regulations be prescribed by the Secretary of  , the passport requirements may be waived for any immigrant.

PART III

The Executive Secretary of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from the Canal Zone. The Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  . The Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates, limited entry certificates, and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  .

PART IV

The documentary requirements for aliens applying for admission into   possessions outside   are to be prescribed by the competent authorities in such possessions, except in the case of  , which are covered by separate executive order.

PART V

The definitions contained in section 28 of the Immigration Act of   shall be regarded as applicable to this order, except as otherwise specified herein.

PART VI

The Secretary of   and the department head charged with the administration of the immigration laws are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned herein.

PART VII

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede and cancel the provisions of Executive Order No. 8029 of   entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States" but shall not supersede Executive Order No. 4049 of   entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States on Airships", or Executive Order No.   of  ,' entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States".

 

 ,

 .
