Executive Order 6661— . 1 (d)
 
  TO PENSION

By virtue of the authority vested in me under sections 1 and 4 of title I of the act entitled "An Act to maintain the credit of  ", approved   (Public, No. 2, 73d Cong.), the following regulation amending  . 1 (a) is hereby prescribed:

I. Veterans Regulation No. 1 (a) is hereby amended by adding a new part (V) to read as follows:

Part V

I. In all cases disallowed by the special boards of review authorized under section 20 of Public Law No. 78, Seventy-third  , 75 percent of the payments being made on  , shall be paid from the date of this regulation to the date of decision by  Provided

, That   is hereby authorized and directed to review all such cases at the earliest practicable date:

Provided further

, That the provisions of  . 2 (a), part III, shall be generally applicable for such review, and particularly   shall determine on all available evidence the question of whether service connection shall be granted under the provisions of veterans regulations issued pursuant to Public, No. 2, Seventy-third  , and notwithstanding the evidence may not clearly demonstrate the existence of the disease or any specific clinical findings within the terms of or period prescribed by  . 1 (a), part I, paragraph I (c) issued under Public, No. 2, Seventy-third  , shall in their decisions resolve all reasonable doubts in favor of the veteran, the burden of proof in such cases being on the Government:

Provided further

, That the Administrator of   is hereby authorized and directed to develop such cases by correspondence and investigation to the end that all available material evidence shall be secured and made a part of the claim before decision by   is rendered:

Provided further

, That in those cases where, as a result of the review, service connection is granted by  , pension shall be payable, effective  , at the rate provided in   No. 1 (a), part I, as amended, subject to deduction of the amount of pension paid for any period subsequent to  :

Provided further

, That the provisions of veterans regulations promulgated under Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , pertaining to Federal employees, hospitalized cases and beneficiaries residing outside the continental limits of  , shall be applicable to those persons entitled to pension under the foregoing provisions of this paragraph.

Done in triplicate.

 

 ,

 .
