Executive Order 8385—Prescribing Regulations Relating to Sick Leave of Government Employees
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 7 of the act of  , entitled "An Act to standardize sick leave and extend it to all civilian employees" (49 Stat.  ) as amended by the act of  , entitled "An Act to amend the   and Sick Leave Acts of  " (Public No. 419, 76th  ,  ), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the granting of sick leave to civilian officers and employees of  ,  , and all corporations included within the provisions of section 6 of the aforesaid act of  , except as provided in Part III hereof:

PART I. DEFINITIONS

 . 1. As used in these regulations "employee" and "employees" shall include:

(a) Officer and officers, respectively.

(b) Permanent employees--those appointed without limitation as to length of service or for definite periods in excess of  .

(c) Temporary employees--those appointed for definite periods of time not exceeding  .

(d) Emergency employees--those whose compensation is paid from emergency funds and whose tenure of appointment is limited to the period for which the emergency funds are available.

(e)   employees--those appointed for the "duration of the job" and those who, although paid only when actually employed, are continuously employed or required to be available for duty for a period of not  , as distinguished from part-time or intermittent employees.

PART II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 2. Sick leave with pay shall be granted to employees when they are incapacitated for the performance of their duties by sickness, injury, or pregnancy and confinement, or when some member of the immediate family of the employee is afflicted with a contagious disease and requires the care and attendance of the employee, or when, through exposure to contagious disease, the presence of the employee at his post of duty would jeopardize the health of others.

 . 3. Except as provided in section 4 hereof, employees shall be entitled to sick leave at the rate of   a month, and if such leave is not used it shall accumulate:

Provided

, that the total accumulation shall not exceed  . Sick leave accruing during any month of service shall be available at any time during  .

 . 4. In cases of serious disability or ailments, and when the exigencies of the situation so require, sick leave may be advanced not in excess of   in addition to the unused sick leave that has accumulated to the credit of the employee:

Provided

, that temporary employees shall not be entitled to an advance of sick leave:

And provided further

, that no advances of sick leave shall be made to any employee unless the absence from duty on account of illness is for a period, or periods, of not less than 5 consecutive work days, except that advanced leave in a less amount may be granted to supplement accrued leave to cover a continuous absence of   or more; that every case of advanced leave shall be supported by a certificate of a registered practicing physician or other practitioner; that the total of such advances shall not at any time exceed   in excess of the accumulated sick leave; and that such advances shall be charged against sick leave subsequently accumulating.

 . 5. When an employee applies for sick leave in excess of the amount accumulated to his credit and the circumstances do not justify such an advance, the excess leave applied for, if granted and used, shall be charged against any unused   leave to which the employee is entitled, or, if there is no unused   leave, the excess shall be charged as leave without pay, and such excess leave, however charged, shall not thereafter be converted into either sick or   leave subsequently accumulating.

 . 6. Sick leave shall not be advanced in an amount that would exceed the total that would accumulate during the period from the date of the advance to the termination of a limited appointment (not temporary in character) or one expiring on a specified date.

 . 7. Advanced sick leave may be granted irrespective of whether the employee has to his credit unused   leave.

 . 8. Sick leave shall not be granted for slight illness or indisposition not incapacitating the employee for the performance of his regular duties, or for absence for the purpose of being treated professionally by a dentist or oculist in his office; but sick leave may be granted for detention at home or in a hospital by illness or disability due to causes as to which a dentist or oculist is qualified to certify.

 . 9. An employee transferred or reappointed without break in service from one permanent, emergency or indefinite position to another permanent, emergency or indefinite position within the same or a different governmental agency shall at the time of his transfer or reappointment be credited with accumulated sick leave, and charged with sick leave previously advanced in excess of that accumulated, provided such latter position is also within the purview of the said act of  . An employee transferred or appointed without break in service from one permanent, emergency, or indefinite position within the purview of the said act of  , to another position or employment in the   service which is not within the purview of that act, shall be credited with all leave, accumulated and accrued on the date of such transfer or appointment at such time as he may be subsequently retransferred or reappointed to a position within the purview of that act, provided such subsequent retransfer or reappointment is also without break in service. "Break in service" means separation from the   service for a period of one or more work days.

 . 10. Sick leave shall accrue to an employee while in a leave-with-pay status. Sick leave shall not accumulate to an employee while in a non-pay status due to leave without pay or furlough when the duration of such non-pay status in any calendar year aggregates   or more:

Provided

, that when the duration of such non-pay status is in excess of 30 calendar days in any calendar year, such excess shall affect the accumulation of sick leave only when it aggregates  , and likewise for each aggregate period of 10 calendar days thereafter. Sick leave shall not accrue during any period of suspension for disciplinary reasons.

 . 11. In the case of voluntary separation or removal for cause of an employee to whom sick leave has been advanced in an amount in excess of that accumulated, the employee shall refund the amount paid him for the period of such excess, or deduction therefor shall be made from any salary due him or from any amount in the retirement fund to his credit. Such indebtedness shall be charged against the employee on the basis of the salary rate obtaining during the period of advanced sick leave and on the basis of   pay for   of absence on a day upon which the employee would otherwise work and receive pay,   of absence being exclusive of   which do not occur within a regular tour of duty, holidays, and all non-work days established by   statute or by Executive or administrative order. Absences for fractional parts of a day shall be charged proportionately. This section shall not apply in cases of death, retirement for age or disability, or reduction of force, or in case an employee who is not eligible for retirement is unable to return to duty because of disability, evidence of which shall be supported by an acceptable certificate from a registered practicing physician or other practitioner.

 . 12. Employees shall be charged for sick leave only for absence on account of illness on   upon which they would otherwise work and receive pay. Absence on account of illness on   not occurring within a regular tour of duty, on holidays, and on all non-work days established by   statute or Executive or administrative order shall not be charged as sick leave.

 . 13. The minimum charge for absence on account of sickness shall be one- half of a regular work day, which minimum charge shall likewise apply on   or other days on which four hours constitute  ; and additional sick leave authorized on   shall be charged in multiples of one-half hour.

 . 14. Notification of absence on account of sickness shall be given as soon as possible on   of absence. If such notification is not made in accordance with this regulation, such absence may be charged to   leave or leave without pay. Application for sick leave shall be filed within   after return to duty. For periods of absence of   or less, the total of which shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, the applicant's signed statement on a prescribed form may be accepted.

 . 15. In case of a period of absence in excess of   a certificate of a registered practicing physician or other practitioner supporting the application for sick leave shall be filed not   after return to duty. In remote localities where such certificate cannot reasonably be obtained, the applicant's signed statement as to the nature of the illness and the reason why a certificate is not furnished may be accepted.

 . 16. When sickness continuing for more than 5 work days occurs within a period of   leave, the period of illness may, upon presentation of the certificate of a registered practicing physician or other practitioner, be charged as sick leave, and the charge against   leave reduced accordingly. No such charge against sick leave shall be made for illness which does not last more than 5 work days. Application for such substitution of sick leave for   leave shall be made within   after the expiration of the  -leave period: Provided, that this provision may be waived by the head of the department or agency concerned.

 . 17. Sick leave may not be granted for a period immediately following a period of absence in a non-pay status, unless and until there is a return to actual duty, nor may such leave without pay be converted into sick leave.

 . 18. Sick leave accumulated during temporary appointment shall be credited to an employee who receives an indefinite, emergency, probational, or permanent appointment in the same department or agency without break in service but shall not be transferable elsewhere under any circumstances.

 . 19. In the case of an employee who was not entitled to sick leave under prior law, but who is now entitled thereto, sick leave as accumulated may be substituted for leave without pay or   leave taken because of illness  .

 . 20. Sick leave taken in excess of   a month during  , shall be charged against sick leave subsequently accumulating.

 . 21. Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to prevent the continuance of any sick leave differential existing prior to  , for the benefit of employees of   stationed without the continental limits of  . However, any department may, if it so desires, apply these regulations to employees stationed without the continental limits of  , subject to the continuance of such leave differential.

 . 22. The heads or governing bodies of the various governmental agencies to which this order applies shall be responsible for the proper administration of these regulations in so far as they pertain to the granting of sick leave to employees under their respective jurisdiction; and they may, within the limits authorized by law, issue such regulations as are not inconsistent with these regulations.

PART III. EMPLOYEES  

 . 23. These regulations shall not apply to:

(a) Teachers and librarians of the public schools of  .

(b) Officers and members of the police and fire departments of  , other than civilian personnel.

(c) Officers and employees of the Panama Canal and   on the Isthmus of  .

(d) Temporary employees engaged on construction work at hourly rates.

(e) The Postmaster General and officers and employees in or under   except those serving in the departmental service and in  .

(f) Persons paid security or prevailing wages from funds allotted by  ,  , on a state, municipal, or other public but non-Federal project or on a Federal project:

Provided

, that sick leave shall be granted in accordance with these regulations to employees in the central office of  ,  , in   and at district and local headquarters, and to other employees in administrative or clerical positions who receive other than security or prevailing wages as prescribed in  .

(g) Employees not required to be continuously employed during regular tour of duty, such as: (1) Per diem or per hour employees engaged in an emergency who may be employed for more than one 7- or 8-hour shift within 24 hours during the emergency; (2) part-time or inter-mittent employees; (3) persons engaged under contract; (4) employees engaged temporarily for   on a piece-price basis; (5) employees who are paid at hourly rates but who are not engaged on construction work, such as mechanics, skilled laborers, and others engaged in many services on maintenance, repair, clean-up work, and the like, where employment is more or less intermittent and not on a regular or continuous basis; and (6) employees paid on a fee basis, such as physicians, surgeons, and other consultants.

PART IV. RATIFICATION; REVOCATION; EFFECTIVE DATE

 . 24. All temporary regulations issued by the heads of the various departments and independent establishments under authority of Executive Order No. 7321 of  , are hereby ratified. All such temporary regulations and all other regulations relating to the granting of sick leave are hereby revoked in so far as they are inconsistent with these regulations.

 . 25. This order shall supersede Executive Orders No. 7846 of  , No. 7880 of  , and No.   of  , and shall be effective as of  , except that section 9 shall be effective as of  , provided that the total amount of leave to the credit of any employee resulting from an adjustment of such leave on the basis of the regulations as herein amended shall not exceed the amount authorized to be accumulated by law.

 . 26. This order shall be published in  .

 

 ,

 .
