Executive Order  —Consolidation of Executive Agencies Engaged in   
 

Whereas

, section 16 of the act of   (ch. 212, 47 Stat.  ,  ), provides for reorganizations within the executive branch of the  ; requires the President to investigate and determine what reorganizations are necessary to effectuate the purposes of section 16; and authorizes the President to make such reorganizations by Executive order; and

Whereas

, I have investigated the organization of the executive and administrative agencies of the Government which are engaged in the enforcement of the   laws, and have determined that a consolidation of such agencies is necessary to accomplish the purposes of section 16;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the aforesaid section 16 of the act of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Transfer of Functions

1(a).   and   are abolished, and the authority, rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred and imposed by law upon the Commissioner of   are transferred to and shall be held, exercised, and performed by  , and his assistants, agents, and inspectors, under the direction of the Secretary of the  .

(b). The authority, rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred and imposed upon the Attorney General by the act of   (ch. 342, 46 Stat. 427), entitled "An Act to transfer to the Attorney General certain functions in the administration of the National Prohibition Act, to create   in  , and for other purposes," so far as they are required to, or may, be exercised and performed under existing law, are transferred to and shall be held, exercised, and performed by  , and his assistants, agents, and inspectors, under the direction of the Secretary of the  :

Provided

, That the Attorney General shall continue to exercise the power and authority (a) to remit or mitigate forfeitures under the   laws and to determine liability for   taxes and penalties, in connection with violations of the National Prohibition Act occurringjprior to the repeal of the eighteenth amendment, and (b) to institute suits upon any cause of action under the National Prohibition Act or under the   laws involving a violation of the National Prohibition Act, arising prior to, and/or not affected by, the repeal of the eighteenth amendment, and to compromise any such cause of action before or after suit is brought:

And provided further

, That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the  , shall prescribe all regulations under the provisions of the National Prohibition Act, and all laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, which were not rendered inoperative by the repeal of the eighteenth amendment, relating to permits, and he shall prescribe the form of all applications, bonds, permits, records, and reports under such acts.

Transfer of Official Records and Property

2(a). The official records and papers on file in, and pertaining to the business of,  , together with the supplies, furniture, equipment, and other property of   in use in such Bureau, are transferred to  .

(b). The official records and papers on file in   pertaining to the functions transferred by this order to  , together with the supplies, furniture, equipment, and other property of   in use in said   in connection with the performance of such functions, arc transferred to  .

Transfer of Personnel

3(a). The officers and employees employed in, or under the jurisdiction of,  , are transferred to  , without change in classification or compensation.

(b). The officers and employees employed in, or under the jurisdiction of,   of  , except those employed in, or under the jurisdiction of, the taxes and penalties section of said Unit, are transferred to   without change in classification or compensation.

(c). Officers and employees transferred to   hereunder, who do not already possess a competitive classified civil-service status, shall not acquire such status by reason of such transfer, except upon recommendation by the Secretary of the   to  , subject to such noncompetitive tests of fitness as the   may prescribe; and no officer or employee so transferred may be retained in   without appropriate civil-service status for a period longer than   from the effective date of this order.

Transfer of Appropriations

4. The unexpended balances of appropriations for   and the field service thereunder, and the unexpended balances of the appropriations made for salaries and expenses,  , including the field service thereof, insofar as may be required for the performance of the functions transferred by this order to  , shall be transferred on the books of   to the appropriation entitled "Collecting the Internal Revenue," which shall thereafter be available in   as a single fund for expenditure for the purposes named in the laws making the separate appropriations for "Salaries and Expenses, Bureau of Industrial Alcohol,  ," "Salaries and expenses,  ," and "Collecting the Internal Revenue," respectively; and appropriations, if any, made to   and  , respectively, for  , for the performance of the functions transferred by this order to   shall likewise be transferred on the books of   to the appropriation "Collecting the Internal Revenue", subject to the conditions herein set forth.

General Provisions

5. Executive    , and  , dated  , and  , respectively, are revoked insofar as they are in conflict with the provisions of this order.

6. This order shall take effect upon the sixty-first calendar day after its transmission to  , unless otherwise determined in accordance with law.

 

Done in triplicate

 ,

 .
