Executive Order  —   
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Act of   (40 Stat. 559), as extended by the Act of   (41 Stat.  ), I hereby prescribe the following documentary requirements for aliens desiring admission into   (The provisions of this   shall be applicable to   and to   citizens who are not citizens of   except as may be otherwise provided by special laws and regulations governing the entry of such persons):

I

1. Non-immigrants must present unexpired passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance or other travel documents showing their origin and identity prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid passport visas, or, in lieu of passport visas, if passing in transit through   to a foreign destination, transit certificates granted by authorized officers of  , except in the following cases:

(a) A non-immigrant alien who is a through passenger on a vessel touching at a port of  , landing temporarily while the vessel is in port.

(b) A non-immigrant alien coming within a category and domiciled in a country, island, or territory of the Western Hemisphere, specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , passing in transit through   or entering   temporarily.

(c) A non-immigrant alien lawfully admitted into   who later goes in transit from one part of   to another through foreign contiguous territory.

(d) A non-immigrant alien child bom subsequent to the issuance of the passport visa or transit certificate of an accompanying parent, the visa or transit certificate not having expired.

(a) An alien who has previously been legally admitted into   with a diplomatic visa or with a passport visa as a non-immigrant as defined by Section 3 (1), or Section 3 (6) of the Immigration Act of  , and who has departed temporarily therefrom and returned within  , not having proceeded to any place outside the countries, islands and territories of the Western Hemisphere specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and not having relinquished the status in which he was originally admitted.

2. In cases of emergency the Secretary of   is authorized in his discretion to waive passport and visa requirements for a non-immigrant alien who applies for admission at a port of entry of  .

3. No passport visa or transit certificate shall be granted to an alien whose entry would be contrary to the public safety.

II

1. Immigrants must present unexpired passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid immigration visas granted by the consular officers of   in accordance with the requirements of the Immigration Act of   (43 Stat. 153, 169) and the regulations issued thereunder, except in the following cases:

(a) An alien immigrant child born subsequent to the issuance of the immigration visa of an accompanying parent, the visa not having expired.

(b) An alien immigrant child born during the temporary visit abroad of a mother who is a citizen of   or of an alien mother whp has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, under such regulations as may be prescribed.

(c) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed temporarily therefrom and returned within  , not having proceeded to any place outside the countries, islands and territories in the Western Hemisphere specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  .

(d) An alien who has previously been legally admitted into   as a non-quota immigrant student, has departed temporarily therefrom and returned within  , not having proceeded to any place outside the countries, islands and territories of the Western Hemisphere specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and not having relinquished his student status.

(e) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence and who is returning from a round trip cruise without trans-shipment from the original vessel to another vessel while en route.

(f) An alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed therefrom and is returning from a temporary visit abroad, and who holds an unexpired permit to reenter issued pursuant to Section 10 of the Immigration Act of  .

2. An immigrant   national who on   (whether adult or minor), was a bona fide resident of   or adjacent islands which comprised    , and who, in conformity with   between   and   of  , has preserved his allegiance to  , may present a passport visa, in lieu of an immigration visa, for entry into  . The Act of   (c. 400, 44 Stat. 657), provides that such aliens may be admitted into   without regard to the provisions of the Immigration Act of  , except Section 23.

3. In such classes of cases and under such conditions as may be by regulations prescribed, the immigration visa requirements may be waived, under Section 13 (b) of the Immigration Act of  , and the passport requirements may also be waived, for an alien immigrant who has previously been legally admitted into   for permanent residence, has departed therefrom and is returning from a temporary visit abroad.

4. In such classes of cases and under such conditions as may be by regulations prescribed by the Secretary of   the passport requirements may be waived for any immigrant.

III

The Executive Secretary of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from the Canal Zone; the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  ; and the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas, transit certificates and immigration visas to aliens coming to   from  .

IV

The documentary requirements for aliens desiring to enter   possessions outside  , except  , are to be prescribed by the competent authorities in such possessions.

V

The definitions contained in Section 28 of the Immigration Act of   shall be regarded as applicable to this  , except as herein otherwise specified.

VI

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this  , as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this   and the statutes mentioned herein.

This Order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede the provisions of Executive Order No. 5869 of  , entitled, "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States," so far as they govern aliens entering   territory other than  , but shall not supersede Executive Order No. 4049 of  , entitled, "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States on Airships," or Executive Order No. 6722 of  , entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States."

 

 ,

 .
