Executive  —  to the Production and Distribution of Food
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , particularly by  ,  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to assure an adequate supply and efficient distribution of food to meet war and essential civilian needs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1.   (except  ),  ,  , and   are hereby consolidated within   into   to be under the direction and supervision of an Administrator. The Administrator shall be appointed by the President and shall be directly responsible to him.

2. All of the powers, functions, and duties conferred upon the Secretary of Agriculture by Executive Order No.   dated  , are transferred to and shall be exercised by the Administrator. The Secretary of Agriculture shall, however, continue as Chairman of   set up by section 7 (a) of Executive Order No. 9280 to advise the Administrator, and the Administrator shall become a member of such committee. The Secretary of Agriculture shall continue as a member of   as provided in section 7b of Executive Order No.  . The Secretary of Agriculture shall continue as the   representative on  .

3. The personnel, property, and records used primarily in the administration of the functions, powers, and duties transferred and consolidated by this order are transferred to the Administrator. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds available to   for the said purposes as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred to the Administrator for use in connection with the exercise of the functions, powers, and duties so transferred. The authority heretofore vested in the Secretary of Agriculture over personnel of divisions, bureaus, and agencies transferred to and consolidated under the Administrator is vested in the Administrator. The powers in respect to labor and manpower heretofore vested in the Secretary of Agriculture by the orders of   Director or the Chairman of   are vested in the Administrator. The authority heretofore vested in the Secretary of Agriculture under Title IV of Executive Order   is vested in the Administrator.

 

 ,

 .
