Executive  —Amending the Instructions to Diplomatic Officers and the Consular Regulations
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes (U.S.C., title 22,  . 132), it is ordered that section XV-4 of the Instructions to Diplomatic Officers and section 451 of the Consular Regulations be, and they are hereby, amended to read as follows:

"

Presents and testimonial.

-No diplomatic or consular officer shall ask or accept for himself or any other person, any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind from any king, prince, or foreign state. (  Const.,  . I, see. 9, cl. 8,  , title 22, § 126.) Any present, decoration, order, or testimonial in acknowledgement of services rendered to the citizens or governments of foreign states, or other thing, which shall be conferred on or presented by any foreign government to any officer of  , shall be tendered through  , and not to the individual in person, but such present, decoration, or other thing shall not be delivered by   unless so authorized by act of  . (5 U.S.C., § 115.)

"Thorough consideration was given by     in   to the question whether the   should consent to the acceptance of presents, decorations, orders, medals, testimonials, or other things. It resulted in the enactment of the joint resolution approved   (48 Stat.  ), which authorized only certain

retired

officers and employees therein named to accept such decorations, orders, medals, or presents as had been tendered to them by foreign governments. Hence it appears to be the settled policy of the   to decline to authorize the acceptance by civilian officers of the Government in active service of presents, decorations, medals, orders, testimonials, or other things, when presented to or conferred on such officers by any king, prince, or foreign state. Furthermore, it is contrary to the policy of the Government to tender or to award presents, decorations, medals, orders, testimonials, or other things to representatives of foreign governments. In view of the attitude of the   and the policy of the  ,   diplomatic and consular officers are hereby

prohibited

from accepting in

any circumstances

any present, decoration, medal, order, testimonial, or

other thing

that may be tendered to them by any foreign king, prince, or foreign state."

 

 ,

 .
