Executive Order  — . 12 (a)
 
 

PRESUMPTION OF ENTITLEMENT TO PENSIONS FOR SPANISH-WAR VETERANS AND CERTAIN WIDOWS, CHILDREN, AND DEPENDENT PARENTS OF DECEASED WORLD WAR VETERANS

By virtue of the authority vested in me under sections 1 and 4 of title I of the act entitled "An Act to maintain the credit of  " approved   (Public, No. 2, 73d Cong.), the following regulation amending  . 12 is hereby prescribed:

I. Veterans Regulation No. 12 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph (II) to read as follows:

II.(a) Any veteran of the Spanish-American War, including   and  , who on or before  , was rated disabled as the result of wound, injury, or disease under general pension laws in effect on or before  , and who was on the rolls on  , either under the general pension laws or public laws granting service pensions, shall from the date of this regulation and without further application be entitled to receive pension at the rate prescribed by  . 1 (a), part I, and its amendments, and for this purpose the last rating for service-connected disability in effect on or prior to  , shall be accepted.

(b). Any veteran of the Spanish-American War, including   and  , who was on the rolls on  , and whose pension was reduced or discontinued as the result of Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , shall from the date of this regulation to the date of decision by   and without further application, be entitled to receive 75 percent of the payments being made on  Provided

, That   is hereby authorized and directed to review all such cases at the earliest practicable date:

Provided further

, That the provisions of  . 2 (a), part III, shall be generally applicable for such review, and particularly   shall determine on all available evidence the question of whether service connection shall be granted under the provisions of veterans regulations issued pursuant to Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , and notwithstanding the evidence may not clearly demonstrate the existence of the disease or any specific clinical findings within the terms of or period prescribed by  . 1, part I, subparagraph (c), issued under Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , shall in their decisions resolve all reasonable doubts in favor of the veteran, the burden of proof in such cases being on the Government:

Provided further

, That the Administrator of   is hereby authorized and directed to develop such cases by correspondence and investigation to the end that all available material evidence shall be secured and made a part of the claim before decision by   is rendered:

Provided further

, That this paragraph shall not apply to any case where the requirements pertaining to honorable discharge, misconduct, participation in, delimiting dates of, or period or length of service during the Spanish-American War,  , or  , as prescribed under the regulations promulgated pursuant to Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , are not met:

Provided further

, That in those cases where, as the result of review, war time service connection is granted by   under  . 1 (a) or  . 12, paragraph I, or this paragraph, pension shall be payable effective  , at the rates provided by  . 1 (a), part I, and its amendments subject to deduction of the amount of pension paid for any period subsequent to  :

Provided further

, That the provisions of the regulations promulgated under Public Law No. 2, Seventy-third  , pertaming to Federal employees, hospitalized cases, and beneficiaries residing outside the continental limits of  , shall be applicable to those persons entitled to pension under the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph.

Done in triplicate.

 

 ,

 .
