Executive  —Amending the Foreign Service Regulations
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C.,  . 132), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by prescribing the following as Chapter VII thereof:

CHAPTER VII

RECORD BOOKS,  , AND CODES

RECORD BOOKS

VII-1.

Maintenance of record books in   establishments

. The following classes of record books shall be maintained in the various   establishments in accordance with such instructions as the Secretary of   may issue:

(a)

At missions:

(1) A postage-record book.

(2) A registered-mail book.

(3) A general-cash book.

(b)

At all consular offices:

(1) A record of fees.

(2) A fee-stamp ledger.

(3) A miscellaneous-record book.

(4) A postage-record book.

(5) A registered-mail book.

(6) A general-cash book.

(7) A record of passport services.

(8) A record of immigration registration or waiting list.

(c)

At seaport consular offices:

(1) All the record books required under subdivision (b) of this section.

(2) A register of shipping and seamen.

(3) A record of   seamen relieved.

(d)

At consolidated offices:

(1)

All consolidated offices:

All the record books required under subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section.

(2)

At seaport consolidated offices:

All the record books required under subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) of this section.

(e)

At all consular agencies:

(1) A record of fees.

(2) A fee-stamp ledger.

(3) A miscellaneous-record book.

(4) A general-cash book.

(f)

At seaport consular agencies:

(1) All the record books required under subdivision (e) of this section.

(2) A register of shipping and seamen.

(3) A record of   seamen relieved.

(4) A record of official services to   vessels and seamen.

 

 .

Composition of archives

. The archives of   establishments shall be comprised of all official documents in the possession of such establishments. The Secretary of   is hereby authorized to define "official document" for the purposes of these regulations.

VII-3.

Maintenance, preservation, and safeguarding of archives

.   establishments shall be maintained, preserved, and safeguarded in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe.

CODES

VII-4.

Safeguarding of codes

. The codes in   establishments shall be safeguarded in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of   may prescribe.

CANCELATION OF REGULATIONS

The following provisions of   of   are hereby canceled:

PART I

Section VIII-11.

Chapter XVII.

PART II

Section XXIV-478.

 .

REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS

The following Executive orders are hereby revoked:

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

Executive Order No.  , dated  .

 

 ,

 .
