Executive Order 9089—Prescribing Regulations Governing the Use, Control, and  
 
 

Whereas

section 606 (d) of the Communications Act of   (48 Stat.  ;  , title  ,  . 606), as amended by the act of  , Public Law 413, 77th  , provides, in part, as follows:

Upon proclamation by the President that there exists a state or threat of war involving  , the President, if he deems it necessary in the interest of the national security and defense, may, during the period ending not   after the termination of such state or threat of war and not later than such earlier date as the   by concurrent resolution may designate * * *(2) cause the closing of any facility or station for wire communication and the removal therefrom of its apparatus and equipment, or (3) authorize the use or control of any such facility or station and its apparatus and equipment by any department of the Government under such regulations as he may prescribe, upon just compensation to the owners.

Whereas

  is now at war with  ,  , and  ; and

Whereas

it is necessary in the interest of the national security and defense, and for the successful prosecution of the war, that   take over, use, and operate certain facilities for wire communication, or parts thereof, within the jurisdiction of  , and inspect, supervise, control, or close certain facilities for wire communication, or parts thereof, within the jurisdiction of  :

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforementioned section 606 (d), as amended, of the Communications Act of  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered that from and after this date   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) created by Executive Order No. 8546 of  , shall exercise the power and authority vested in me by section 606 (d) of the said Communications Act of  , as amended, pursuant to and under the following regulations:

1. The   shall determine and prepare plans for the allocation of such portions of governmental and non-governmental wire facilities as may be required to meet the needs of the armed forces, due consideration being given to the needs of other governmental agencies, of industry, and of other civilian activities.

2. The Board shall, if the national security and defense and the successful conduct of the war so demand, designate specific facilities for wire communication or portions thereof for the use, control, supervision, inspection or closure by     or other agency of  .

3. The Board shall, if the national security and defense and the successful conduct of the war so demand, prescribe classes and types of facilities for wire communication or portions thereof which shall be subject to use, control, supervision,   or closure, in accordance with such prescription, by     or other agency of   designated by the  .

4. Every department and independent agency of the Government shall submit to  , at such time and in such manner as the   may prescribe, full information with respect to all use made or proposed to be made, of any facility for wire communication and of any supervision, control, inspection or closure which has been or is proposed to be effected pursuant to paragraph 3 hereof.

5. No facility for wire communication shall be taken over and operated in whole or in part or subjected to governmental supervision, control or closure unless such action is essential to national defense and security and the successful conduct of the war. So far as possible, action taken pursuant to this   shall not interfere with the procurement needs of civilian governmental agencies, the normal functioning of industry or the maintenance of civilian morale.

6. Until and except so far as said Board shall otherwise provide, the owners, managers, boards of directors, receivers, officers and employees engaged in wire communication shall continue the operation thereof in the usual and ordinary course of business, in the names of their respective companies, associations, organizations, owners or managers, as the case may be.

7. The head of any department or agency which uses or controls any facility for wire communication pursuant to the terms of this   shall ascertain the just compensation for the use or control of such facility and recommend such just compensation in each such case to the President for approval and action by him in accordance with the provisions of subsection (e) of Section 606, as amended, of the Communications Act of  .

8. By subsequent order of the Board, the use, control, or supervision of any facility for wire communication or class or type thereof assumed under the provisions of this   may be relinquished in whole or in part to the owners thereof and any restrictions placed on any station or facility for wire communication pursuant hereto may be removed in whole or in part.

9. All terms herein used shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in Section 3, as amended, of the Communications Act of  .

10. All regulations of general applicability issued by  , the Secretary of the  , or any other governmental agency under these Presidential regulations shall be published in  .

 

 ,

 .
