Executive  —Amendment of Executive Order No.  , of  
 

Section 2 of Executive Order No.  , of  , removing, in certain cases, restrictions imposed by Public Resolution 55, of   (48 Stat.  ), as to payments, transfers, and deliveries of property under the Trading with the Enemy Act (40 Stat. 411) and   Claims lot of   (45 Stat. 254), is hereby amended to read as follows:

"Section 2. The restrictions imposed by the said resolution are hereby removed except as to the following payments, conveyances, transfers, or deliveries of money or property or of the income, issues, profits, or avails thereof:

1. To any person who was on  , or who at any time since that date has been, a   national, unless such person is entitled to receive payment under section 9, subsection (b) (1), of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or unless such person is a national of   at the time of payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery, and was on  , the legal and beneficial owner of the claim to the money or property or the income, issues, profits, or avails thereof, and on or before  ,   received written notice of such ownership.

2. To any corporation, association, or partnership, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or a body politic which on or at any time since  , was organized or existed under the laws of   or had its principal place of business in  .

3. To any corporation, association, or partnership, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or a body politic in which a substantial legal or beneficial interest is owned directly or indirectly by any person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1 or 2 hereof, or to any person who is a trustee of such money or property for a person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1 or 2 hereof.

4. To the heirs, devisees, legatees, executors, administrators, representatives, creditors, successors, or assigns of any person to whom payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery continues to be postponed under subdivision 1, 2, or 3 hereof, except to such heirs, devisees, or legatees as are natural persons and have been nationals of   from  , to the time of payment, conveyance, transfer, or delivery, and except to such creditors as are not   nationals and are eligible claimants under section 9, subsections (a) and (e) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended,"

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

 ,

 .
