Executive Order 8135—Appeals From Decisions of the Auditor General of the   to the President of  
 
 

Under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 7(4) of the act of  , 48 Stat. 456, 461 (U.S.C., title  ,  .  ), and as President of  , I hereby prescribe the following regulations and procedure governing appeals from decisions of   of the   to the President of  :

1. Every appeal from a decision of   of the   to the President of   shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the President of  , shall definitely specify the particular decision of   appealed from, shall embody a statement of the reasons and authorities relied upon, and shall be filed, with one duplicate copy, in   High Commissioner to the   Islands within   from the date of the decision appealed from.

2. Upon receipt of such an appeal the High Commissioner shall transmit a copy thereof to   of the  , who shall, within   after his receipt of the copy, provide the High Commissioner with authenticated copies of all pertinent documents and correspondence within his control, together with any statement he may desire to offer in connection with the appeal.

3. Upon receipt from   of the matter specified in the preceding paragraph, the High Commissioner, acting for and on behalf of the President of  , shall proceed to consider the appeal, and if he concurs in the decision of  , he shall duly notify the appellant and   in writing to that effect, which notification shall constitute a final disposition of the appeal.

4. If, upon his consideration of such an appeal, the High Commissioner concludes that the decision appealed from is erroneous, he shall transmit the pertinent papers, together with a statement of his views and recommendations, through  , to the Secretary of War, for submission to the President.

5. The decision of the President shall be recorded by the Secretary of War in the form of an indorsement on the file, which shall then be returned to the High Commissioner, who shall in writing inform the appellant and   of the decision of the President.

 

 ,

 .
