Executive Order 9165—Providing for  
 
 

Whereas

Executive Order No. 8972 of   authorized and directed the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   to establish and maintain military guards and patrols and take other appropriate measures to protect from injury or destruction national-defense materials, premises and utilities; and

Whereas

Executive Order No. 9074 of  , made the Secretary of the   primarily responsible, and directed him to take such action as might be necessary, for the safeguarding against destruction, loss, or injury, from sabotage or other subversive acts, accident, or other causes of similar nature, of vessels, harbors, ports and waterfront facilities; and

Whereas

I requested  , under date of  , to work out plans for the protection of electric power supply from hostile acts; and

Whereas

it is desirable that supplementary protective measures be developed and executed by other Federal departments and agencies, and integrated with the protective programs of the  ,  , and  ;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to provide protective measures supplementary to and integrated with the protective programs of the  ,  , and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. In addition to the functions, powers, and duties conferred upon it by Executive Order No. 8757 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  ,   shall, in conjunction with and subject to the approval of the Secretary of War, formulate and establish a   of  , designed to assure the development and execution of measures for the protection of essential facilities from sabotage and other destructive acts and omissions, which   shall be supplementary to and correlated with the protective programs of the  ,  , and  . Whenever the   or   shall extend protection to any essential facilities,   shall modify its security measures accordingly to the extent determined by the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the  , as the case may be.

2. In order to carry out such  ,   shall:

a. Serve as the center for the coordination of plans sponsored or operated by the several   departments and agencies

b. Establish standards of security to govern the development of security measures for the  's essential facilities

  existing and proposed security plans and measures, and require the adoption of such additional measures as may be deemed necessary

d. Take steps to secure the cooperation of owners and operators of essential facilities and of   and local governments in developing and carrying out adequate security measures.

3. Subject to and in conformity with the policies, standards, plans, directives and procedures of  , the following   departments and agencies shall effect the development and execution of said   with respect to the facility groups indicated.

Federal Communications Commission--

Communications

Department of Commerce-------------

  and   Administration-----------

  and   Transportation------

Rail Transportation and   Administration--------

Public Buildings

Department of Agriculture-------------

Forest,   and   under the jurisdiction of  , and   of the Interior-------------

Forest,   and   under the jurisdiction of  , and   of the Interior-------------

Minerals and   Commission-----------

Gas Utilities

Federal Power Commission-----------

Power and Irrigation Water, and   of the Interior-------------

Public Health Service------------------

Domestic Water Supply

Department of Agriculture-------------

Foodstuffs and Storage including Fibers, Naval Stores, Vegetable Oils

4. In order to effect the development and execution of security plans for the essential facility groups herein assigned to it, each of the above named   departments and agencies shall:

a. Conduct surveys to ascertain security status;

b. Determine security deficiencies;

c. Make recommendations for security action by owners and operators, by   and local governments, and by Federal departments and agencies;

d. Make recurring inspections to determine that adequate standards of security against sabotage and other destructive acts or omissions are maintained;

e. Take all other necessary steps within the scope of its authority for the protection of essential facilities against sabotage and other destructive acts or omissions.

5. Nothing in this order shall:

a. relieve any owner or operator or any local,   or Federal agency from primary responsibility to guard and protect essential facilities from sabotage and other destructive acts and omissions;

b. be construed to limit or modify the duty and responsibility of  , with respect to the investigation of alleged acts of sabotage, espionage, and other types of subversive activities, or affect existing arrangements, instructions or regulations with respect to such matters.

6. The directive to   to take steps to protect public buildings, as contained in my letter of  , is hereby modified so far as may be required by the provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 .
