Executive Order 9343—Transferring Jurisdiction and Control Over Certain Lands on Government Island,  , to the  
 
 

Whereas

the President by Executive Order No.   of September 22,  , accepted on behalf of   title in fee simple to a certain 15-acre tract of land on Government Island,  , conveyed to   by  ,  , and placed such land under the jurisdiction and control of  ; and

Whereas

jurisdiction over such land was transferred to   by Reorganization Plan No. 1; and

Whereas

the President by Executive Order No. 8470 of  , accepted on behalf of   title in fee simple to a certain 35-acre tract of land on Government Island, conveyed to   by the said city, and placed such land under the jurisdiction and control of  , to be used for public purposes by  ,  ,  ,  , and such other Federal agencies as might from time to time be provided with facilities on the said  ; and

Whereas

it is necessary in the prosecution of the war that   have jurisdiction and control over the said lands and the buildings and facilities thereon to the extent hereinafter indicated:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Public Resolution of  , 46 Stat.  , Public Resolution of  , 53 Stat. 813, and the First War Powers Act,   (55 Stat. 838), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. Jurisdiction over the above-mentioned 35-acre tract of land is hereby transferred to   for the duration of the emergency proclaimed by me on  .

2. All rights which   may have as to the use, occupancy, or control of buildings, or parts of buildings, and other facilities on the above-mentioned 15-acre tract of land are hereby transferred to   for the duration of the said emergency:

Provided

, That  .  , may continue to use Building No. 22 and the area adjacent thereto for storage or other purposes:

And provided further

, That if during the life of this order   relinquishes its right to the use thereof, the said building may be taken over by   for use by   during the remainder of the said emergency.

3.   may transfer to   for use of the Coast Guard such of its personnel, machinery, equipment, tools, etc., remaining on Government Island at the effective date of this order as such agencies may agree upon, subject to existing laws and regulations.

4.   Government Island may perform such equipment repair work, and other repair work, as   may desire on such reimbursable basis as may be agreed upon.

5. Jurisdiction over the 35-acre tract of land and all rights as to the use and control of the buildings on the 15-acre tract of land shall revert to   upon the termination of the said emergency: and all personnel, machinery, equipment, tools, etc., transferred to the   pursuant to paragraph 3 of this order shall be returned to   upon, or before, the termination of the said emergency.

 

 ,

 .
