Executive Order 8136—Delegating Certain Powers to the Attorney General and Directing the Secretary of the   To Sell Certain Securities
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in the President by section 5 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, approved   (40 Stat. 411, 415), as amended, the Settlement of War Claims Act of  , approved   (45 Stat. 254), and Public Resolution No. 53, approved   (48 Stat.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All power and authority conferred upon the President by sections 9,  ,  , and 21 of the said Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and all power and authority which the President under that Act has heretofore ordered to be exercised through  , are hereby vested in and shall be exercised through the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of   in  .

2. All acts heretofore performed by the Attorney General and by  , under the supervision of the Attorney General, pertaining to the administration of the rights, privileges, duties, and powers conferred upon the Alien Property Custodian by Executive order and thereafter transferred to  , to be administered under the supervision of the Attorney General, by Executive Order No.   of  , are hereby approved, confirmed, and ratified.

3. The first clause of section 3 of Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"For the purposes of this   order, (a) the nationality, residence, domicile, or other qualification of claimants under the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, shall be that determined by the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of   in  ;"

4. All securities in which the Secretary of the   has invested moneys deposited in the   by   or the Attorney General, as successor to  , under section 12 of the said Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and which do not represent funds deposited, or available for deposit, in   under section 4 of the said Settlement of War Claims Act of   shall be sold by the Secretary of the  , and the proceeds shall be deposited in the   to the account of the Attorney General,  .

5. All Executive orders heretofore issued delegating or transferring to   or to the Attorney General or   powers vested in the President by the said Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, are hereby superseded by this order in so far as they delegate or transfer any such powers.

 

 ,

 .
