Executive Order 9347—Providing for the Establishment of an Office of War Mobilization
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , particularly by  ,  , as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to provide for the more effective coordination of the mobilization of the Nation for war, it is hereby ordered as follows:

I

There is established in   of the President an Office of War Mobilization which shall be under the direction of a Director of War Mobilization (hereinafter referred to as Director), to be appointed by the President.

II

There is established in   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), of which the Director shall be the Chairman and with which he shall advise and consult. The   shall consist, in addition to the Director, of the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and  . The Chairman shall request the heads of other agencies or departments to participate in the deliberations of the   whenever matters specially affecting such agencies or departments are under consideration. It shall be the duty of the heads of the agencies and departments to supply necessary data to the Director and the  .

III

It shall be the function of  , acting in consultation with the   and subject to the direction and control of the President,

(a) To develop unified programs and to establish policies for the maximum use of the  's natural and industrial resources for military and civilian needs, for the effective use of the national manpower not in the armed forces, for the maintenance and stabilization of the civilian economy, and for the adjustment of such economy to war needs and conditions;

(b) To unify the activities of Federal agencies and departments engaged in or concerned with production, procurement, distribution, or transportation of military or civilian supplies, materials, and products and to resolve and determine controversies between such agencies or departments, except those to be resolved by   under Section 3, Title IV, of Executive Order  ; and

(c) To issue such directives on policy or operations to the   agencies and departments as may be necessary to carry out the programs developed, the policies established, and the decisions made under this  . It shall be the duty of all such agencies and departments to execute these directives, and to make to   such progress reports as may be required.

IV

  may perform the functions, exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred on it by this   through such officials and such agencies, and in such manner, as the Director, subject to the provisions of this  , may determine. The Director shall receive such compensation as the President shall provide; and within the limits of funds which may be made available, may employ necessary personnel and make provision for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge his responsibilities.

All prior Executive Orders insofar as they are in conflict herewith are amended accordingly.

 

 ,

 .
