Executive Order  —Further Amending Executive Order No.   by   and Defining its Powers and Duties
 
 

In order to establish a new  , to promote the fullest utilization of all available manpower, and to eliminate discriminatory employment practices, Executive Order No. 8802 of  , as amended by Executive Order No. 8823 of  , is hereby further amended to read as follows:

"

Whereas

the successful prosecution of the war demands the maximum employment of all available workers regardless of race, creed, color, or national origin; and

"

Whereas

it is the policy of   to encourage full participation in the war effort by all persons in   regardless of race, creed, color, or national origin, in the firm belief that the democratic way of life within the   can be defended successfully only with the help and support of all groups within its borders; and

"

Whereas

there is evidence that available and needed workers have been barred from employment in industries engaged in war production solely by reason of their race, creed, color, or national origin, to the detriment of the prosecution of the war, the workers' morale, and national unity:

"

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , I do hereby reaffirm the policy of   that there shall be no discrimination in the employment of any person in war industries or in Government by reason of race, creed, color, or national origin, and I do hereby declare that it is the duty of all employers, including the several   departments and agencies, and all labor organizations, in furtherance of this policy and of this  , to eliminate discrimination in regard to hire, tenure, terms or conditions of employment, or union member-ship because of race, creed, color, or national origin.

"It is hereby ordered as follows:

"l. All contracting agencies of   shall include in all contracts hereafter negotiated or renegotiated by them a provision obligating the contractor not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin and requiring him to include a similar provision in all subcontracts.

"2. All departments and agencies of   concerned with vocational and training programs for war production shall take all measures appropriate to assure that such programs are administered without discrimination because of race, creed, color, or national origin.

"3. There is hereby established in   of the President a Committee on Fair Employment Practice, hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall consist of a Chairman and not more than six other members to be appointed by the President. The Chairman shall receive such salary as shall be fixed by the President not exceeding $10,000 per year. The other members of the   shall receive necessary traveling expenses and, unless their compensation is otherwise prescribed by the President, a per diem allowance not exceeding $25 per day and subsistence expenses on   as they are actually engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this  .

"4. The committee shall formulate policies to achieve the purposes of this   and shall make recommendations to the various Federal departments and agencies and to the President which it deems necessary and proper to make effective the provisions of this  . The   shall also recommend to the Chairman of   appropriate measures for bringing about the full utilization and training of manpower in and for war production without discrimination because of race, creed, color, or national origin.

"5. The   shall receive and investigate complaints of discrimination forbidden by this  . It may conduct hearings, make findings of fact, and take appropriate steps to obtain elimination of such discrimination.

"6. Upon the appointment of the   and the designation of its Chairman,   established by Executive Order No. 8802 of  , hereinafter referred to as the old  , shall cease to exist. All records and property of the old   and such unexpended balances of allocations or other funds available for its use as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred to  . The   shall assume jurisdiction over all complaints and matters pending before the old   and shall conduct such investigations and hearings as may be necessary in the performance of its duties under this  .

"7. Within the limits of the funds which may be made available for that purpose, the Chairman shall appoint and fix the compensation of such personnel and make provision for such supplies, facilities, and services as may be necessary to carry out this Order. The   may utilize the services and facilities of other Federal departments and agencies and such voluntary and uncompensated services as may from time to time be needed. The   may accept the services of   and local authorities and officials, and may perform the functions and duties and exercise the powers conferred upon it by this   through such officials and agencies and in such manner as it may determine.

"8. The   shall have the power to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be appropriate or necessary to carry out the provisions of this  .

"9. The provisions of any other pertinent Executive Order inconsistent with this   are hereby superseded."

 

 ,

 .
