Executive  —Establishing a Panel for the Creation of Emergency Boards for the Adjustment of Railway Labor Disputes
 
 

Whereas

, Section 5 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (Ch. 8, title  ,  ) provides that for a period of   after mediatory efforts of   have failed to settle a dispute "no change shall be made in the rates of pay, rules, or working conditions or established practices in effect prior to the time the dispute arose"; and

Whereas

, duly designated and authorized representatives of employees may, during   period, take a strike vote and fix a date for the strike to become effective; and

Whereas

, Section 10 of the said Railway Labor Act requires   to notify the President if an unadjusted dispute threatens, in its judgment, substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service, and provides that upon receipt of such notification the President may, in his discretion, create a board to investigate and report respecting such dispute; and

Whereas

, the national interest demands that for the effective prosecution of the war there shall be no strike votes taken, or dates fixed for the beginning of strikes, or strikes, lock-outs, or embargoes put into effect, which would affect the transportation industry covered by the Railway Labor Act.

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the Statutes of  , and in order to adjust the policies and procedures under the said Act to the requirements of the war emergency, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby created, for the duration of the war and   thereafter, a   of nine members, hereinafter referred to as the  , to be appointed by the President, and to be qualified as to membership thereon in the same manner as provided in Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act for membership on emergency boards. The President shall designate a chairman from the members of the   and shall fill vacancies thereon as they may occur. The Chairman of the   shall receive such compensation, together with necessary traveling expenses, as the President may prescribe. The members of the   shall receive necessary travel expenses and subsistence expenses or per diem allowances in lieu thereof on   as they are actually engaged in performance of duties pursuant to this  .

2. Whenever a dispute between a carrier or carriers and its or their employees concerning changes in rates of pay, rules, or working conditions, or whenever any other dispute not referable to  , is not adjusted or settled under the provisions of  ,  ,  ,  , and 9 of the Railway Labor Act, the duly designated and authorized representatives of employees involved in such dispute may, prior to notice by   to the President of a threatened interruption to commerce, notify the Chairman of   failure of the parties to adjust the dispute and of their desire to avoid the taking of a strike vote and the setting of a strike date. If, in the judgment of the Chairman of the  , the dispute is such that if unadjusted, even in the absence of a strike vote, it may interfere with the prosecution of the war, he may thereupon select three members of the   to serve as an emergency board to investigate such dispute and to report thereon to the President. Subject to the provisions of Section 10, such board shall have exclusive and final jurisdiction of the dispute and shall make every reasonable effort to settle such dispute.

3.   shall furnish the   stenographic, investigative, and such other facilities as may be necessary; and within the limits of the funds provided, and upon the certification of the Chairman of the  , shall make such other disbursements as are necessary to effectuate this  .

 

 ,

 .
