Executive Order  —  Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 81, 40 Stat. 559), as extended by the act of   (ch. 113, 41 Stat.  ,  ), I hereby prescribe the following regulations governing the entry of alien seamen into  :

I.

Alien seamen whose occupational status as such is found to be bona fide, entering the ports of   solely in the pursuit of their calling as seamen, may be admitted temporarily in the discretion of the Secretary of   and under regulations prescribed by the Secretary without passports or visas if arriving in   under the following circumstances:

(1) As seamen who were members of the crew of an   vessel, which has been sold and delivered abroad, when the contract of employment provides for the return of the crew or the laws of   provide for their return to an   port;

(2) As individual seamen returned to   in accordance with the terms of the articles of  ;

(3) As shipwrecked or cast-away seamen rescued by or transferred to a vessel bound to an   port;

(4) As alien ( ) seamen who are consular passengers, or are repatriated without expense to   following and in accordance with the terms of their discharge in a foreign port before an   consular officer, but who, for any reason, cannot be considered as serving as seamen on the vessel on which they arrive at an   port.

II.

Alien seamen arriving at a port in  , sent forward by the owners to join a foreign vessel in such port as members of the crew, may present passport visas, transit certificates, or group transit certificates, issued by a consular officer in accordance with the classification specified in section 3 of the Immigration Act of   (ch. 190, 43 Stat. 153, 154) under such regulations as the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may prescribe.

III.

Masters of vessels of all nationalities sailing for a port of   must submit for visa a list of all the alien members of the vessel's crew to the   consular officer at the port from which the vessel commences its voyage. If there is no   consular officer stationed at that port, the crew list should be submitted at the first port of call (if the vessel touches at any other port) where an   consular officer is located. The visa of a shipping commissioner in the Canal Zone shall be accepted as equivalent to the visa of an   consular officer, but consular agents are not authorized to visa crew lists. This paragraph does not apply to members of crews of vessels sailing between ports of   and ports of  ,  ,  , and   and not touching at ports of other countries, no documentation being required of such persons.

When a vessel sails from a port where no   consular officer is stationed, but which is within a few hours' reach by mail of an   consulate, so that unreasonable delay and serious loss would not result from referring the crew list to such consulate, it should be referred thereto for visa.

An alien seaman whose name is not included in a visaed crew list arriving at a port of   shall not be allowed to land except upon the permission of the Secretary of  .

The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   are hereby authorized to make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this order, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the provisions of this order and the statutes mentioned therein.

This order shall take effect immediately and shall supersede Executive Order No.  , of  , entitled "Documents Required of Bona Fide Alien Seamen Entering the United States as Passengers", and section II (5) of Executive Order No. 5869, of  , entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the United States".

 

 ,

 .
