Executive  —Approval of Code of Fair Competition for the Feed Manufacturing Industry
 
 

Whereas

, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator of   having rendered their separate reports and recommendations and findings on the provisions of said Code, coming within their respective jurisdictions, as set forth in the Executive Order No. 6182 of  , as supplemented by Executive Order No.  , and Executive Order No.   of  , and as amended by Executive Order No.  , of  .

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby find that:

1. An application has been duly made, pursuant to and in full compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved  , for my approval of a Code of Fair Competition for the Feed Manufacturing Industry; and,

2. Due notice and opportunity for hearings to interested parties have been given pursuant to the provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and,

3. Hearings have been held upon said Code, pursuant to such notice and pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the Act and regulations thereunder; and,

4. Said Code of   constitutes a Code of Fair Competition, as contemplated by the Act and complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of the Act, including clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of Title I of the Act; and,

5. It appears, after due consideration, that said Code of Fair Competition will tend to effectuate the policy of   as declared in Section 1 of Title I of the Act.

Now, Therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of  , approved  , and otherwise, do hereby approve said Code of Fair Competition for the Feed Manufacturing Industry, provided that the continued participation of the   Feed   in the selection of  , after   shall be contingent upon its amendment of its by-laws to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator for Industrial Recovery.

 

 ,

 .
