Executive  —Abolishment of   and Transfer of Its Functions to  
 
 

Whereas

section 16 of the act of   (ch. 212, 47 Stat.  ,  ), provides for reorganizations within the executive branch of the Government, requires the President to investigate and determine what reorganizations are necessary to effectuate the purposes of section 16, and authorizes the President to make such reorganizations by Executive order; and

Whereas

after investigation I find and declare that the abolishment of   and the transfer of its functions to   is necessary to effectuate the purposes of section 16;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the aforesaid section 16 of the act of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Abolishment of the Office and Transfer of Its Functions

1.   is abolished, and the authority, rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred and imposed on   by law and/or Executive order are transferred to  , to be administered under the supervision of the Attorney General.

Transfer of Official Records, Supplies, and Equipment

2. The official records and papers on file in, and pertaining to the business of,  , together with the supplies, furniture, equipment, and other property of   in use in such office are transferred to  .

Transfer of Personnel

3. (a) All officers and employees of   are transferred to  , without loss of such civil service status as they may have. The duties and responsibilities of the positions to be occupied by them shall be established by the Attorney General and the compensation of such established positions shall be determined by   in accordance with the Classification Act of  , as amended.

(b) The officers and employees transferred to   hereunder who do not already possess a competitive classified civil service status appropriate for the position to which assigned shall not acquire such status by reason of such transfer except upon recommendation by the Attorney General to  , subject to such noncompetitive tests of fitness as the   may prescribe; and no persons or employees other than attorneys so transferred may be retained in   without appropriate civil service status for a period longer than   from the effective date of this order.

Transfer of Funds, Securities, Real Estate, and Other Property

4. (a) All funds, securities, choses in action, real estate, patents, trade marks, copyrights, and all other property of whatsoever kind, to which   has title or which are in his possession or control, or which are held in trust for  , are hereby transferred to the Attorney General, to be administered and disposed of by him as required by law. The Alien Property Custodian is hereby authorized and directed to execute all such deeds, conveyances, transfers, assignments, and other documents and to take all such steps as the Attorney General may deem necessary or proper to effectuate the provisions of this order.

(b) All expenses incurred by   in the administration of the "Trading with the Enemy Act", as amended, and in pursuance of this order, shall be paid out of the money or other property transferred under this section, or out of interest and other earnings thereof.

General Provisions

5. All Executive orders insofar as they are in conflict with the provisions of this order are revoked.

6. In accordance with law, this order shall become effective upon the sixty-first calendar day after its transmission to the  ;

Provided

, That in case it shall appear to the President that the interests of economy require that the transfer be delayed beyond the date this order becomes effective, he may, in his discretion, fix a later date therefor, and he may for like cause further defer such date from time to time.

Done in triplicate.

 

 ,

 .
