Executive Order 7224-A—Documents Required of Aliens Entering the   Islands
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 40 Stat. 559, as extended by the act of  , 41 Stat.  , I hereby prescribe the following documentary requirements for aliens desiring admission into  . The provisions of this   shall be applicable to   except as may be otherwise provided by special laws and regulations governing the entry of such aliens.

I

1. All aliens coming to   must present unexpired passports or official documents in the nature of passports issued by the governments of the countries to which they owe allegiance or other travel documents showing their origin and identity, prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary of  , and valid passport visas or, in lieu of passport visas, if passing in transit through   to a foreign destination, transit certificates granted by authorized officers of  , except in the following cases:

(a) An alien who is a through passenger on a vessel touching at a port of  , landing temporarily while the vessel is in port.

(b) An alien seaman serving on a vessel of any nationality touching at a port of  . (Masters of vessels are not required to present visaed crew lists for  .)

(c) An alien arriving in   in transit to   or to another   possession. (Such an alien, however, may be required to exhibit those documents necessary for his entry into   or the other possession to which he is proceeding.)

2.   High Commissioner to   is authorized in his discretion to waive the passport and visa requirements for aliens in the following categories:

(a) An alien lawfully resident in   who is returning from a temporary visit abroad.

(b) An alien child born subsequent to the issuance of the visa or transit certificate of an accompanying parent, the visa or transit certificate not having expired.

(c) An alien child born during the temporary visit abroad of a mother who is a citizen of   or of   or of an alien mother lawfully resident in  .

(d) An alien who applies for temporary admission, in cases of emergency.

3. No passport visa or transit certificate shall be granted to an alien whose entry would be contrary to the public safety.

II

The Executive Secretary of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas and transit certificates to aliens going to   from the Canal Zone; the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas and transit certificates to aliens going to   from  ; and the Governor of   is hereby authorized to issue passport visas and transit certificates to aliens going to   from  .

III

This Order shall take effect on  , upon the inauguration of the government of  , and shall then supersede the provisions of Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Documents Required of Aliens Entering the Philippine Islands".

 

 ,

 .
