Executive Order  —  Between the War and   Departments
 
 

 , HAWAII, and DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of  , 41 Stat. 131, 132, and otherwise, and in the interest of the national defense, it is ordered that the following interchange of property between   and   be, and it is hereby, made:

1. The following-described areas of government-owned land, including existing construction end permanent installations, are hereby set apart and assigned to the uses and purposes of naval reservations under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the  :

(a) North Island, in the Harbor of San Diego,  .

(b)  , in  ,  .

(c) That part of a tract of reclaimed land located at  ,  , more particularly described in the act of  , 41 Stat. 948, 954, as  , Sections A and B, in   on the east side of the Anacostia River extending from the   point upstream to the outfell sewer at   lying between the Anacostia River seawall and the original high-water shoreline on the east, the metes and bounds of which shall be determined and be acceptable to the   and the  .

2. The following-described area of government-owned land, including existing construction and permanent installations, is hereby set apart and assigned to the uses and purposes of on army reservation under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of War:

Naval Air Station,  ,  .

The area of North Island known as  , which was acquired for use for national defense under the act of  , 40 Stat. 247 (10 U.S.C.  .  ), with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the   as soon as practicable, it being understood that this evacuation will not include fixed harbor defense installations now located thereon. The areas on   Island known as  , which was transferred to and placed under the control and jurisdiction of   for use for military purposes by the act of  , 39 Stat. 568, with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the   as soon as practicable after new facilities have been provided elsewhere for its use. That part of the area, the metes and bounds of which shall be determined and be acceptable to the   and the  , at  ,  , known as   as described in the said act of  , with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the   as soon as practicable after the new facilities on the adjoining ares are sufficiently advanced to meet its requirements.  ,  ,  , with the installations and facilities thereon, shall be vacated by the   as soon as practicable, it being understood that the lighter-than-air hangar and operating facilities thereon are not to be dismantled unless hereafter specifically authorized by the President.

 

 ,

 .
