Executive  —Foreign Food Procurement and Development
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order further to unify and consolidate governmental activities relating to foreign economic affairs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The functions of   and   with respect to the procurement and development of food, food machinery, and other food facilities, in foreign countries, are transferred to and consolidated in   to be administered in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No. 9380 of  .

2. The personnel, records, property, funds, contracts, assets, and liabilities of  , determined by the Director of   to be primarily concerned with the functions transferred to   by this order, shall be transferred, on such date or dates as the Director of   shall determine, to   or to such subdivisions or corporations thereof as   shall designate.

3. Except as otherwise provided in this order, the procurement of food, food machinery, and other food facilities in foreign countries, by  , shall be performed consistently with directives issued to such Administration by   with respect to food for human or animal consumption and by   and the Chairman of   jointly with respect to food for industrial uses.  , or   and the Chairman of   jointly, as the case may be, may (1) set forth in such directives the quantities, specifications, priorities, and times and places of delivery relating to such procurement, and (2) append to such directives suggestions as to sources and prices relating to such procurement. The Administrator of   may from time to time advise  , the Chairman of  , and the Director of War Mobilization as to circumstances affecting procurement under such directives and as to steps which the Administrator of   deems will promote effective procurement by   of food, food machinery, and other food facilities in foreign countries for the purposes of   or  .

4. (a) Nothing in this order shall authorize   or the Chairman of   to issue directives to   with respect to (1) the procurement and development of food, food machinery, and other food facilities in foreign countries for use in foreign countries, and (2) the preclusive procurement of foreign food, food machinery, and other food facilities vital to the enemy either for military or civilian needs.

(b) The provisions of this order shall not affect the existing authority of   or of   with respect to priorities and allocations, or to define general policies, subject to the authority of   Under paragraph 4 of Executive Order No. 9361 of  , with respect to the procurement and development of food, food machinery, and other food facilities in foreign countries for use in foreign countries.

5. As used in this order, (1) the word "food" shall have the meaning set forth in paragraph 10 of Executive Order No. 9280 of  , exclusive of sugar produced in the Caribbean area, and (2) the words "foreign countries" shall be deemed to exclude  .

6. All prior Executive orders and directives insofar as they are in conflict herewith are amended accordingly. This order shall take effect immediately except that   and   shall continue to exercise their respective functions transferred under paragraph 1 of this order until such date or dates as   shall determine.

 

 ,

 .
