Executive  —Transfer of Lands from   to  ,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 2, 30 Stat. 11,  ,  ), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of  , the following-described lands of   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat.  ), modified by Executive Order No.  , of  , are hereby transferred to   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat.  ), modified by the act of   (ch. 369, 43 Stat.  ), and by Executive Order No.  , of  :

 

All lands within   located in T. 14 N., R. 2 E., Tps. 13,  , and 15 N., R. 3 E., and  . 13,  , and 15  ,   4E.; also all lands within said   lying north of the following-described line:

Beginning at a point on the west line of  . 30,  , where the hydrographic divide between the drainage of   on the north and the drainage of Cowlitz River on the south intersects said section line; thence easterly along the hydrographic divide to the most northerly summit of Skate Mountains; thence northeasterly to the mouth of   and thence following up   to the point on the south boundary of   where   intersects said boundary (this is intended to cover all lands of   lying to the north of  ); also all lands within   lying to the north, northwest, or east of the following-described line:

Beginning at the northeast comer of  ; thence following the eastern boundary of said park to the southeast comer thereof; thence following in a southerly direction the hydrographic divide between the Cowlitz River drainage on the west and the Naches River drainage on the east to the point where said hydrographic divide intersects the north boundary of  ; thence easterly along the boundary of said   reservation to the point where the said boundary intersects the north and south center line of  . 10, T. 11 N.,   12 E.; thence northerly approximately ½ mile to the quarter-section comer on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 1 mile to the quarter comer on the south line of  . 2, said township; thence north ½ mile to the center of said  . 2; thence east ½ mile to the quarter comer on the east line of said section; thence north 1½ miles to the southwest comer of  . 25, T. 12 N.,   12 E.; thence eastward approximately 1 mile to the southeast comer of said section; thence north ½ mile to the quarter comer on the east Une of said section; thence east approximately ½ mile to the center of  . 30, T. 12 N.,   13 E.; thence north approximately mile to the center corner on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 20, said township; thence north approximately ½ mile to the center of said section; thence east approximately ½ mile to the quarter corner on the east line of said section; thence north 3 miles to the quarter corner on the west line of  . 4, said township; thence east approximately 2½ miles to the center of  . 2, said township; thence north approximately mile to the quarter comer on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 2 miles to the southeast corner of  .  , T. 13 N.,   14 E.; thence north 1 mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence east approximately 1½ miles to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 28, said township; thence north approximately 1 mile to the quarter comer on the north line of said section; thence east approximately ½ mile to the northeast comer of said section; thence north approximately 1 mile to the southwest comer of  . 15, said township; thence east 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence north 1 mile to the northeast comer of said section; thence east mile to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 11, said township; thence north 1 mile to the quarter corner on the north line of said section; thence east 1½ miles to the southeast corner of  . 1, said township; thence north 1 mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence east 6 miles to the southeast comer of   15 E., which is a point on the present national-forest boundary; also  . 30,T. 12 N., R. 14 E. It is not intended by this order to transfer from   to   lands lying north and east of the following-described line since such lands by Executive order of even date are being transferred to  Beginning on the east line of  . 12, T. 17 N.,   15 E., where the hydrographic divide between the Naches River drainage on the southwest and the Yakima River drainage on the northeast intersects said section line; thence in a northwesterly direction following the said hydrographic divide to the point where it intersects the present boundary of  .

It is further ordered that all lands now a part of   lying south and east of the following-described line, and north of  , except  . 30, T. 12 N.,   14 E., be, and the same are hereby, eliminated from said national forest:

Beginning on the north boundary of   at the point where said boundary intersects the north and south center line of  . 10, T. 11 N. R. 12 E.; thence northerly approximately mile to the quarter-section corner on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 2, said township; thence north ½ mile to the center of said  . 2; thence east ½ mile to the quarter corner on the east line of said section; thence north 1½ miles to the southwest corner of  . 25, T. 12 N.,   12 E.; thence eastward approximately 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence north ½ mile to the quarter corner on the east line of said section; thence east approximately ½ mile to the center of  . 30, T. 12 N.,   13 E.; thence north approximately ½ mile to the center comer on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 20, said township; thence north approximately ½ mile to the center of said section; thence east approximately ½ mile to the quarter corner on the east line of said section; thence north 3 miles to the quarter corner on the west line of  . 4, said township; thence east approximately 2½ miles to the center of  . 2, said township; thence north approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the north line of said section; thence east approximately 2 miles to the southeast corner of  .  , T. 13 N.,   14 E.; thence north 1 mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence east approximately 1½ miles to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 28, said township; thence north approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the north line of said section; thence east approximately mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence north approximately 1 mile to the southwest corner of  . 15, said township; thence east 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence north 1 mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence east mile to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 11, said township; thence north 1 mile to the quarter corner on the north line of said section; thence east 1½ miles to the southeast corner of  . 1, said township.

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.

It is not intended by this order to give any lands a national-forest status which have not heretofore had such status, nor to remove any lands from a national-forest status, except the lands above described as being eliminated from  .

 

 ,

 .
