Executive Order 9387—Establishing an   on Just Compensation and Prescribing Its Functions
 
 

The War Shipping Administration was established to insure the fullest utilization of our shipping facilities for the successful prosecution of the war. Substantially all the vessels of  , including many fishing boats and other small craft, have been requisitioned by   through  . In some cases this requisition was only of the use of the vessel, in others it included full title. In determining the amount of just compensation which   is required to pay under applicable statutes, numerous questions of fact and law must be solved. By obtaining guidance in these matters, the operations of   will be greatly facilitated and the determination of the proper compensation to be paid for individual vessels will be more speedily accomplished.

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes and particularly by  ,  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established a  , to be known as   on Just Compensation (hereinafter referred to as the  ), whose composition, powers, functions and responsibilities are defined herein.

2. The   shall consist of the following members: Judge  , Judge  , and Judge  , Jr. The members of the   shall serve for a period of   or for such lesser period of time as may be required for the completion of the Functions of the   as set forth in paragraph 4 of this order.

3. The Board shall be furnished by   with such professional, technical, clerical, stenographic and other personnel as may be selected by the   to assist it in carrying out its functions.

4. The Board, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Constitution and the laws of  , shall establish fair and equitable standards, rules and formulae of general applicability for the guidance of   in determining the just compensation to be paid for all vessels requisitioned, purchased, chartered or insured by the Administration. The   may prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures as it deems necessary or advisable in carrying out its functions.

5. In determining the amount of just compensation which should be paid for each vessel,   will be guided by the General standards, rules and formulae established by the  .

 

 ,

 .
