Executive Order 6336—Transfer of Lands From   to  
 
 

 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 2, 30 Stat. 11,  ,  ), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of  , the following-described lands of   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat,  ), modified by the act of   (ch. 369, 43 Stat.  ), and by Executive Order No.  , of  , are hereby transferred to   as defined by proclamation of   (34 Stat.  ), and modified by Executive orders of  ,  , and  , numbered 822,  , and  , respectively:

WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN

All lands within   in T. 31 N., R. 7 E., and all lands within said national forest lying north of the following-described line:

Beginning at the southwest corner of  . 19, T. 30 N.,   8 E.; thence running easterly approximately 1½ miles to the quarter corner on the south line of  . 20, said township; thence south approximately ½ mile to the center of  . 29, said township; thence east approximately 2½ miles to the quarter corner on the east line of  . 27, said township; thence south approximately 1 mile to the quarter corner on the east line of  .  , said township; thence east approximately ½ mile to the center of  .  , said township; thence south ½ mile to the quarter corner on the south line of said  . 35; thence east approximately 1½ miles to the southeast corner of said  ; thence south 1½ miles to the quarter corner on the east line of  . 12, T. 29 N.,   8 E.; thence east approximately 3½ miles to the center of  . 10, T. 29 N.,   9 E.; thence north approximately ½ mile to the quarter corner on the north line of said section; thence east approximately ¼ mile to the northeast corner of said section; thence north approximately ½ mile to the quarter corner on the west line of  . 2, said township; thence east 1 mile to the quarter corner on the east line of said section; thence south approximately ½ mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence east 1¼ miles to the southeast corner of  . 6, T. 29 N.,   10 E.; thence   to the northeast corner of said  . 6; thence east ½ mile to the southeast corner of the SW¼SE¼ of said section; thence   to the northeast corner of said   said  . 6; thence east 1 mile to the south-east corner of the SW¼NE¼ sec. 5, said township; thence north ½ mile to the north-east corner of the   of said section; thence east approximately 1¼ miles to the northwest corner of  . 3, said township; thence south approximately 1 mile to the southwest corner of said section; thence east approximately 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence south 1 mile to the southwest corner of  . 11, said township; thence east approximately 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence south 1 mile to the southwest corner of  . 13, said township; thence east 1 mile to the southeast corner of said section; thence south approximately 1½ miles to the hydrographic divide between the Skykomish River drainage on the south and the Stillaguamish River drainage on the north; thence following easterly and northerly along said hydrographic divide and the divide formed by the Wenatchee River on the southeast and the Stillaguamish River on the northwest to the point where said divide intersects the White River Glacier, which point is on the present boundary line between   and  .

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.

It is not intended by this order to give any lands a national-forest status which have not heretofore had such status, nor to remove any lands from a national-forest status.

 

 ,

 .
