Executive Order 9250—Providing for the Stabilizing of the National Economy
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and particularly by the Act of  , entitled "An Act to Amend the Emergency Price Control Act of  , to Aid in Preventing Inflation, and for Other Purposes," as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to control so far as possible the inflationary tendencies and the vast dislocations attendant thereon which threaten our military effort and our domestic economic structure, and for the more effective prosecution of the war, it is hereby ordered as follows:

TITLE I—Establishment of  

1. There is established in   of the President an   at the head of which shall be an Economic Stabilization Director (hereinafter referred to as the Director).

2. There is established in   with which the Director shall advise and consult. The   shall consist of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of   of  , the Director of  ,  , the Chairman of  , and two representatives each of labor, management, and farmers to be appointed by the President. The Director may invite for consultation the head of any other department or agency. The Director shall serve as Chairman of the  .

3. The Director, with the approval of the President, shall formulate and develop a comprehensive national economic policy relating to the control of civilian purchasing power, prices, rents, wages, salaries, profits, rationing, subsidies, and all related matters—all for the purpose of preventing avoidable increases in the cost of living, cooperating in minimizing the unnecessary migration of labor from one business, industry, or region to another, and facilitating the prosecution of the war. To give effect to this comprehensive national economic policy the Director shall have power to issue directives on policy to the   departments and agencies concerned.

4. The guiding policy of the Director and of all departments and agencies of the Government shall be to stabilize the cost of living in accordance with the Act of  ; and it shall be the duty and responsibility of the Director and of all departments and agencies of the   to cooperate in the execution of such administrative programs and in the development of such legislative programs as may be necessary to that end. The administration of activities related to the national economic policy shall remain with the departments and agencies now responsible for such activities, but such administration shall conform to the directives on policy issued by the Director.

TITLE II—Wage and Salary Stabilization Policy

1. No increases in wage rates, granted as a result of voluntary agreement, collective bargaining, conciliation, arbitration, or otherwise, and no decreases in wage rates, shall be authorized unless notice of such increases or decreases shall have been filed with  , and unless   has approved such increases or decreases.

2.   shall not approve any increase in the wage rates prevailing on  , unless such increase is necessary to correct maladjustments or inequalities, to eliminate substandards of living, to correct gross inequities, or to aid in the effective prosecution of the war.

Provided, however, that where   or the Price Administrator shall have reason to believe that a proposed wage increase will require a change in the price ceiling of the commodity or service involved, such proposed increase, if approved by  , shall become effective only if also approved by the Director.

3.   shall not approve a decrease in the wages for any particular work below the highest wages paid therefor  , and  , unless to correct gross inequities and to aid in the effective prosecution of the war.

4.   shall, by general regulation, make such exemptions from the provisions of this title in the case of small total wage increases or decreases as it deems necessary for the effective administration of this  .

5. No increases in salaries now in excess of $5,000 per year (except in instances in which an individual has been assigned to more difficult or responsible work) shall be granted until otherwise determined by the Director.

6. No decrease shall be made in the salary for any particular work below the highest salary paid therefor  , and  , unless to correct gross inequities and to aid in the effective prosecution of the war.

7. In order to correct gross inequities and to provide for greater equality in contributing to the war effort, the Director is authorized to take the necessary action, and to issue the appropriate regulations, so that, insofar as practicable no salary shall be authorized under Title III, Section 4, to the extent that it exceeds $25,000 after the payment of taxes allocable to the sum in excess of $25,000. Provided, however, that such regulations shall make due allowance for the payment of life insurance premiums on policies heretofore issued, and required payments on fixed obligations heretofore incurred, and shall make provision to prevent undue hardship.

8. The policy of  , as established in Executive Order No. 9017 of  , to encourage free collective bargaining between employers and employees is reaffirmed and continued.

9. Insofar as the provisions of Clause (1) of section 302 (c) of the Emergency Price Control Act of   are inconsistent with this  , they are hereby suspended.

TITLE III—Administration of Wage and  

1. Except as modified by this  ,   shall continue to perform the powers, functions, and duties conferred upon it by Executive Order No.  , and the functions of said   are hereby extended to cover all industries and all employees.   shall continue to follow the procedures specified in said Executive Order.

2.   shall constitute the agency of   authorized to carry out the wage policies stated in this  , or the directives on policy issued by the Director under this  .   is further authorized to issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the speedy determination of the propriety of any wage increases or decreases in accordance with this  , and to avail itself of the services and facilities of such   and   departments and agencies as, in the discretion of  , may be of assistance to the  .

3. No provision with respect to wages contained in any labor agreement between employers and employees (including   as amended on  , and   of   arrived at  ) which is inconsistent with the policy herein enunciated or hereafter formulated by the Director shall be enforced except with the approval of   within the provisions of this  .   shall permit   and   for  , both of which are provided for in the foregoing agreements, to continue to perform their functions therein set forth, except insofar as any of them is inconsistent with the terms of this  .

4. In order to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this   and the Act of  , any wage or salary payment made in contravention thereof shall be disregarded by the executive departments and other governmental agencies in determining the costs or expenses of any employer for the purpose of any law or regulation, including the Emergency Price Control Act of   or any maximum price regulation thereof, or for the purpose of calculating deductions under the Revenue Laws of the United States or for the purpose of determining costs or expenses under any contract made by or on behalf of  .

TITLE IV—Prices of  

1. The prices of agricultural commodities and of commodities manufactured or processed in whole or substantial part from any agricultural commodity shall be stabilized, so far as practicable, on the basis of levels which existed on  , and in compliance with the Act of  .

2. In establishing, maintaining, or adjusting maximum prices for agricultural commodities or for commodities processed or manufactured in whole or in substantial part from any agricultural commodity, appropriate deductions shall be made from parity price or comparable price for payments made under  , as amended, parity payments made under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of  , as amended, and governmental subsidies.

3. Subject to the directives on policy of the Director, the price of agricultural commodities shall be established or maintained or adjusted jointly by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Price Administrator; and any disagreement between them shall be resolved by the Director. The price of any commodity manufactured or processed in whole or in substantial part from an agricultural commodity shall be established or maintained or adjusted by  , in the same administrative manner provided for under the Emergency Price Control Act of  .

4. The provisions of sections 3(a) and 3 (c) of the Emergency Price Control Act of   are hereby suspended to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with any or all prices established under this   for agricultural commodities, or commodities manufactured or processed in whole or in substantial 'part from an agricultural commodity.

TITLE V—Profits and Subsidies

1. The Price Administrator in fixing, reducing, or increasing prices, shall determine price ceilings in such a manner that profits are prevented which in his judgment are unreasonable or exorbitant.

2. The Director may direct any   or agency including, but not limited to,   (including   and  ),  ,  , and other corporations organized pursuant to Section 5d of  , as amended, to use its authority to subsidize and to purchase for resale, if such measures are necessary to insure the maximum necessary production and distribution of any commodity, or to maintain ceiling prices, or to prevent a price rise inconsistent with the purposes of this  .

TITLE VI—General Provisions

1. Nothing in this   shall be construed as affecting the present operation of the Fair Labor Standards Act,  , the Walsh-Healey Act, the Davis-Bacon Act, or the adjustment procedure of the Railway Labor Act.

2. Salaries and wages under this   shall include all forms of direct or indirect remuneration to an employee or officer for work or personal services performed for an employer or corporation, including but not limited to, bonuses, additional compensation, gifts, commissions, fees, and any other remuneration in any form or medium whatsoever (excluding insurance and pension benefits in a reasonable amount as determined by the Director); but for the purpose of determining wages or salaries for any period prior to  , such additional compensation shall be taken into account only in cases where it has been customarily paid by employers to their employees. "Salaries" as used in this   means remuneration for personal services regularly paid on a  ,  , or   basis.

3. The Director shall, so far as possible, utilize the information, data, and staff services of other Federal departments and agencies which have activities or functions related to national economic policy. All such Federal departments and agencies shall supply available information, data, and services required by the Director in discharging his responsibilities.

4. The Director shall be the agency to receive notice of any increase in the rates or charges of common carriers or other public utilities as provided in the aforesaid Act of  .

5. The Director may perform the functions and duties, and exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this   through such officials or agencies, and in such manner, as he may determine. The decision of the Director as to such delegation and the manner of exercise thereof shall be final.

6. The Director, if he deems it necessary, may direct that any policy formulated under this   shall be enforced by any other department or agency under any other power or authority which may be provided by any of the laws of  .

7. The Director, who shall be appointed by the President, shall receive such compensation as the President shall provide, and within the limits of funds which may be made available, may employ necessary personnel and make provision for supplies, facilities, and services necessary to discharge his responsibilities.

 

 ,

 .
