Executive  —Amending the Foreign Service Regulations of  
 
 

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1752 of the Revised Statutes of   (22 U.S.C.  . 132), it is ordered that   of   be, and they are hereby, amended by renumbering sections  , IX-10, and IX-8 as sections IX-8,  , and IX-10, respectively, and by prescribing the following as Chapter XX thereof:

CHAPTER XX— 

XX-1.

Submission of reports on catastrophes abroad.

Whenever a great catastrophe occurs abroad, either on land or on sea, the officer within whose district the catastrophe takes place or into whose district the survivors are brought shall report immediately by telegraph the names of any   citizens who have been killed or injured and the names of   citizens known to be safe.

XX-2.

Submission of reports on rescues at sea.

Whenever a consular officer receives authentic information that the master or crew of any vessel,   or foreign, has rescued seamen or citizens of   from shipwreck or some other catastrophe at sea, he shall immediately transmit to   a detailed report concerning the rescue and shall make recommendations with reference to the giving of rewards to officers and members of the crew who have distinguished themselves in effecting the rescue.

XX-3.

Services for distressed   citizens abroad.

Officers of   shall extend every possible aid and assistance within their power to distressed   citizens within their districts, but they shall not expend the funds nor pledge the credit of   for this purpose, except in the case of   seamen, or except upon the receipt of express authorization from   to do so.

XX-4.

Restriction against extension of personal financial aid to   abroad.

Officers of   shall not make personal loans to   citizens or others who have no personal claim upon them, nor shall they obligate their personal credit for such persons, either by endorsing notes, bills of exchange, or other negotiable instruments or by assuming any form of financial responsibility.

XX-5.

Restriction against acceptance of private property for storage or safekeeping.

Except in a public emergency, no officer of   shall accept private property for storage or safekeeping in the office or for transmission to some other destination, unless it is property belonging to the estate of a deceased   citizen, or property over which the officer has jurisdiction as a result of a catastrophe at sea. In public emergencies, officers may accept private property for storage and safekeeping cr for transmission to another destination, provided the owner signs a statement to the effect that the property is being accepted for deposit at his request, at his own risk, and with full knowledge that neither   nor any of its officers assumes responsibility therefor.

XX-6.

Assistance to  .

Officers of   may cooperate fully with   within the limits of their districts, but they shall not take an active part in the solicitation of memberships or the collection of funds, nor shall they assume any responsibility for the activities of this organization.

XX-7.

Presentation of   at foreign courts.

The chief of the mission concerned may exercise his discretion in the matter of procuring the presentation of   citizens at the court of the country to which he is accredited.

Cancelation of Regulations

The following provisions of   are hereby canceled:

Part I

Sections XI-9, XI-10, and XI-12.

Part II

Sections XIX-327,  , XIX-329, XXHI-416, XXTV-457,  , and XXIV-458.

Chapter XXX.

Revocation of Executive Order

Executive Order No.  , dated  , is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .
