Executive Order 9244—Amending Executive Order No. 9054 Entitled "Establishing a War Shipping Administration in   of the President and  "
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the First War Powers Act,  , approved  , and the Second War Powers Act,  , approved  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to assure the most effective utilization of the shipping of   for the successful prosecution of the war, Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended as follows:

1. Section 2 of said Executive   is hereby amended by adding thereto the following paragraphs:

"(h) Exercise the power, authority and discretion conferred upon the President by Section 902 (e) of the Merchant Marine Act of  , as amended.

"(i) With respect to all matters for which the Administrator may be responsible under terms of the  , exercise in like manner as  , all of the functions, powers and duties with respect to contracts and payments, and the audit of books and records, conferred upon the   by Executive Order No.  ,  , and Executive Order No.  ,  , and Section 403 of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act,   (Public Law 528, 77th  ).

"(j) Exercise in like manner as   all the functions, powers, authority and discretion with regard to the acquisition (including requisition) and disposition of property conferred upon   by  . 8942, No.  , and No.   dated  ,  , and  , respectively.

"(k) Exercise In like manner as   all the functions, powers, duties, authority and discretion conferred on the   by the   in Admiralty Act approved   (41 Stat. 525, Chapter 95)."

2. Section 2 of said Executive   Is hereby further amended by modifying   (c) thereof to read as follows:

"(c) Provide insurance and re-insurance pursuant to the Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended. Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended, and the Act of   (Public Law 101, 77th  ) ."

3. Section 3 of said Executive   Is hereby amended to read as follows:

"3. The functions, duties and powers conferred by law upon   with respect to the operation, purchase, charter, insurance, repair, maintenance, and requisition of vessels and facilities required for the operation thereof and the issuance of warrants with respect thereto under the Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended, the Act of   (Public Law 101, 77th  ), the Act of   (Public Law 173, 77th  ), the Act of   (Public Law 46, 77th  ), the Act of   (Public Law 274, 77th  ), as amended.  ,   (Public Law 247, 77th  ),  ,  , the Act of   (Public Law 5, 77th  ), Section 403 of the Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act,   (Public Law 528, 77th  ), Executive Order No.  , dated  , as amended, Executive Order No.  , dated  , Executive Order No.  , dated  , and under any other provisions of law,  , are hereby transferred to the Administrator: and such part of the existing personnel of  , together with such records and public property as the Administrator may deem necessary to the full exercise of his functions and duties prescribed by this   are hereby assigned to  ."

4. Section 5 of said Executive   is hereby amended to read as follows:

"5. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this  , the Administrator is authorized to utilize the services of available and appropriate personnel of  , the War and  , and other government departments and agencies which are engaged in activities related to the operation of shipping. The Administrator may require, and other government departments and agencies are directed to make available to the Administrator, such information, reports and statistics regarding shipping requirements as the Administrator may deem necessary to enable him properly to determine and administer the allocation of vessels and space thereon, except in regard to vessels of the   and   excluded in Section 2 and those engaged on special secret military missions."

5. Any provisions of pertinent Executive Orders conflicting with this   are hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 .
