Executive  —  and Training Functions to  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by  ,  , and for the purpose of enabling the Chairman of   more effectively to carry out the responsibility vested in him by Executive Order No.  , dated  , of assuring the most effective mobilization and utilization of the national manpower, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The following agencies, functions, duties, and powers are transferred to   in   of the President and shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Chairman of the Commission:

(a)   and all functions, duties, and powers of   in   relating to employment service.

(b)   in  , and its functions, duties, and powers.

(c)   in  , and its functions, duties, and powers, including those relating to the program to encourage apprentice training in national defense industries.

(d)   in  , and its functions, duties, and powers.

  and   shall be preserved as organizational entities within  .

2. The following functions, duties, and powers are transferred to the Chairman of  :

(a) All functions, duties, and powers of   relating to the administration of any agency or function transferred by paragraph 1 of this order.

(b) All functions, duties, and powers of   relating to the following matters administered by  : loans to students in technical and professional fields (national defense); education and training, defense workers (national defense); and visual aids for war training (national defense).

3. All records and property (including office equipment, contracts, agreements, and leased office space) used primarily in the administration of any agency, function, duty, or power transferred by this order, and all personnel used primarily in the administration of such agencies, functions, duties, and powers (including officers whose chief duties relate to such administration) are transferred to   for use in the administration of the agencies, functions, duties, and powers transferred by this order. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds available for the use of any agency in the exercise of any function, duty, or power transferred by this order or for the use of the head of any agency in the exercise of any function, duty, or power so transferred, as the Director of   shall determine, shall be transferred to  , for use in connection with the exercise of functions, duties, and powers so transferred. In determining the amounts to be transferred, the Director of   may include an amount to provide for the liquidation of obligations incurred against such appropriations, allocations, or other funds prior to the transfer.

4. In order to maintain, to the maximum extent consistent with the effective prosecution of the war, the essential coordination and integration of public employment service and unemployment compensation functions, and to avoid any necessity for establishing duplicate public employment office facilities, the Chairman of   is directed to provide for making available to agencies charged with the administration of unemployment compensation laws, such services, information, and facilities by   and its public employment offices as the Chairman of   finds will not be inconsistent with the effective prosecution of the war and as   finds necessary for the proper and efficient administration of such unemployment compensation laws.

 

 ,

 .
