Executive Order 9240—Regulations Relating to Overtime Wage Compensation
 
 

Whereas

many labor organizations have already adopted the patriotic policy of waiving double time wage compensation or other premium pay for work on  , as such, for the duration of the war; and

Whereas

it Is desirable and necessary in the prosecution of the war, and to insure uniformity and fair treatment for those labor organizations, employers, and employees who are conforming to such wage policies that this principle be universally adopted:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, as President of   and as Commander in Chief of the   and  , it is hereby ordered:

I. That the following principles and regulations shall apply for the duration of the war to the payment of premium and overtime wage compensation on all work relating to the prosecution of the war:

A. No premium wage or extra compensation shall be paid to any employee in  , its territories or possessions, for work on   or   except where such work is performed by the employee on   worked in his regularly scheduled   and as hereinafter provided.

(1) Where because of emergency conditions an employee is required to work for   in any regularly scheduled   a premium wage of double time compensation shall be paid for work on  .

(2) Where required by the provisions of law or employment contracts, not more than time and one-half wage compensation shall be paid for work in excess of eight hours in any day or forty hours in any   or for work performed on   worked in any regularly scheduled  .

B. No premium wage or extra compensation shall be paid for work on customary holidays except that time and one-half wage compensation shall be paid for work performed on any of the following holidays only:

New Year's Day

Fourth of July

Labor Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day

and either Memorial Day or one other such holiday of greater local importance.

II. All Federal departments and agencies shall conform the provisions in all existing and future contracts negotiated, executed, or supervised by them to the policies of this order. All such departments and agencies shall immediately open negotiations to alter provisions in existing contracts to conform them to the requirements of this order.

III. Nothing in this order shall be construed as requiring a modification of the principle that every employee should have   of rest in  . The continuous operation of plants and machines in prosecuting the war does not require that employees should work  .

IV. Nothing herein shall be construed as superseding or in conflict with the provisions of the statutes prescribing the compensation, hours of work and other conditions of employment of employees of  .

V. All Federal departments and agencies affected by this order shall refer to the Secretary of   for determination questions of interpretation and application arising hereunder.

VI. The provisions of this order shall become effective  .

 

 ,

 .
