Executive Order 9246—Providing for the Coordination and Control of the Rubber Program
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, particularly the Act of  , entitled "First War Powers Act, 1941" (Public Law 354, 77th  ), as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to carry out certain recommendations made to the President by   for the purpose of assuring an adequate supply of rubber for war and essential civilian needs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Chairman of   is authorized and directed to assume full responsibility for and control over the  's rubber program in all of its phases, including, but not limited to: technical research and development, importation, purchase, sale, acquisition, storage, transportation, provision of facilities, conservation, production, manufacturing, processing, marketing, distribution, and use of natural and synthetic rubber, related materials, and products manufactured therefrom.

2. There shall be, within  , a   Director, appointed by and responsible to the Chairman of   for the administration of the  's rubber program.

3. In carrying out this  , the Rubber Director may direct   and other subsidiaries of the Re-construction Finance Corporation,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and such other departments, establishments, and agencies as he may deem necessary, to execute such aspects of the rubber program in such manner and for such period of time as he deems advisable, and full compliance shall be accorded such directives by the   agencies concerned.

4. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 and unless future directives issued thereunder shall otherwise provide:

A.   shall, upon and under the direction of the Rubber Director:

(1) Conduct or promote developmental research in the production and manufacture of butadiene from petroleum and natural gas products and recommend new production and manufacturing methods for the consideration of the Rubber Director.

(2) Serve as the agency of the Government in supervising, upon completion of construction, the operation of plants producing synthetic rubber raw materials made from petroleum and natural gas products.

  shall, upon and under the direction of the Rubber Director, serve as the agency of the Government in supervising the construction of all plants under the rubber program, including plants manufacturing butadiene from petroleum and natural gas products.

5. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the powers conferred upon the Price Administrator by the "Emergency Price Control Act of  ."

6. Any provision of any Executive Order conflicting with this order is superseded to the extent of such conflict.

 

 ,

 .
