Executive Order 13000—Order of Succession of Officers To Act as Secretary of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 3347 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Succession to Act as the Secretary of  . (a) In the event of the death, permanent disability, or resignation of the Secretary of  , the incumbents holding   positions designated below, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of Defense as Acting Secretary of Defense:

(1) Deputy Secretary of  .

(2) Secretary of the  .

(3) Secretary of the  .

(4) Secretary of  .

(5) Under Secretary of  .

(6) Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

(7) Under Secretary of  ).

(8) Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and  .

(9) Deputy Under Secretary of  .

(10) Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

(11) Director of  .

(12) The Assistant Secretaries of Defense, the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, and    , in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent appointees in such positions.

(13) Under Secretaries of the  , the  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent appointees in such positions.

(14) Assistant Secretaries of the  , the  , and   whose appointments are vested in the President, and General Counsels of the  , the  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent appointees in such positions.

(b) In the event of the temporary absence or temporary disability of the Secretary of  , the incumbents holding   positions designated in paragraph (a) of this section, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of Defense as Acting Secretary of  .

(1) In these instances, the designation of an Acting Secretary of   applies only for the duration of the Secretary's absence or disability, and does not affect the authority of the Secretary to resume the powers of his office upon his return.

(2) In the event that the Secretary of   is temporarily absent from his position, the Secretary may continue to exercise the powers and fulfill the duties of this office during his absence, notwithstanding the provisions of this order.

(c) Precedence among those officers designated in paragraphs (a)(12)-(14) of this section who have the same appointment date shall be determined by the Secretary of   at the time that such appointments are made.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an officer shall not act for or exercise the powers of the Secretary of   under this order if that officer serves only in an acting capacity in the position that would otherwise entitle him to do so.

 . 2. Temporary Nature of Succession. Succession to act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of   pursuant to this order shall be on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory appointment held by the successor.

 . 3. Revocation of Prior Executive Order. Executive  .   of  , is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
