Executive Order 13043—Increasing Seat Belt Use in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the Highway Safety Act of  , 23 U.S.C. 402 and 403, as amended, section 7902(c) of title 5, United States Code, and section 19 of   of  , 29 U.S.C. 668, as amended, and in order to require that Federal employees use seat belts while on official business; to require that motor vehicle occupants use seat belts in national park areas and on   ("Defense") installations; to encourage   to adopt and enforce seat belt policies and programs for occupants of motor vehicles traveling on highways in Indian Country; and to encourage Federal contractors, subcontractors, and grantees to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policies. (a) Seat Belt Use by  . Each   employee occupying any seating position of a motor vehicle on official business, whose seat is equipped with a seat belt, shall have the seat belt properly fastened at all times when the vehicle is in motion.

(b) Seat Belt Use in National   and on  . Each operator and passenger occupying any seating position of a motor vehicle in a national park area or on a   installation, whose seat is equipped with a seat belt or child restraint system, shall have the seat belt or child restraint system properly fastened, as required by law, at all times when the vehicle is in motion.

(c) Seat Belt Use by  , Subcontractors and  . Each Federal agency, in contracts, subcontracts, and grants entered into after the date of this order, shall seek to encourage contractors, subcontractors, and grantees to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt policies and programs for their employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally owned vehicles.

(d)  .   are encouraged to adopt and enforce seat belt policies and programs for occupants of motor vehicles traveling on highways in Indian Country that are subject to their jurisdiction.

 . 2. Scope of Order. All agencies of the executive branch are directed to promulgate rules and take other appropriate measures within their existing programs to further the policies of this order. This includes, but is not limited to, conducting education, awareness, and other appropriate programs for Federal employees about the importance of wearing seat belts and the consequences of not wearing them. It also includes encouraging Federal contractors, subcontractors, and grantees to conduct such programs. In addition,   and   are directed to initiate rulemaking to consider regulatory changes with respect to enhanced seat belt use requirements and standard (primary) enforcement of such requirements in national park areas and on   installations, consistent with the policies outlined in this order, and to widely publicize and actively enforce such regulations. The term "agency" as used in this order means an   department, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101, or any employing unit or authority of  , other than those of the legislative and judicial branches.

 . 3. Coordination. The Secretary of   shall provide leadership and guidance to the heads of executive branch agencies to assist them with the employee seat belt programs established pursuant to this order. The Secretary of   shall also cooperate and consult with the legislative and judicial branches of the   to encourage and help them to adopt seat belt use programs.

 . 4.  . The Secretary of  , in cooperation with the heads of executive branch agencies, and after consultation with the judicial and legislative branches of Government, shall submit an   report to the President. The report shall include seat belt use rates and statistics of crashes, injuries, and related costs involving   employees on official business and occupants of motor vehicles driven in national park areas, on   installations, and on highways in Indian Country. The report also shall identify specific agency programs that have made significant progress towards achieving the goals of this order or are notable and deserving of recognition. All agencies of the executive branch shall provide information to, and otherwise cooperate with, the Secretary of   to assist with the preparation of the   report.

 . 5. Other Powers and Duties. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or alter the powers and duties of the heads of the various Federal agencies pursuant to the Highway Safety Act of  , 23 U.S.C. 402 and 403, as amended, section 19 of   of  , 29 U.S.C. 668, as amended, or sections  ,  , and   of title 5, United States Code, nor shall it be construed to affect any right, duty, or procedure under  , 29 U.S.C. 151 et seq.

 . 6.  . (a) Executive Order   of  , is revoked. To the extent that this order is inconsistent with any provisions of any prior Executive order, this order shall control.

(b) If any provision of this order or application of any such provision is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and other applications of such provision shall not be affected.

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to create a new cause of action against  , or to alter in any way   liability under the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C.  .

(d) The Secretary of   shall implement the provisions of this order insofar as practicable for vehicles of  .

(e) The Secretary of the   and the Attorney General, consistent with their protective and law enforcement responsibilities, shall determine the extent to which the requirements of this order apply to the protective and law enforcement activities of their respective agencies.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:04 a.m.,  ]
