Executive Order  —  on Unlawful Conduct on the Internet
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to address unlawful conduct that involves the use of the Internet, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment and Purpose. (a) There is hereby established a working group to address unlawful conduct that involves the use of the Internet (" "). The purpose of   shall be to prepare a report and recommendations concerning: (1) The extent to which existing Federal laws provide a sufficient basis for effective investigation and prosecution of unlawful conduct that involves the use of the Internet, such as the illegal sale of guns, explosives, controlled substances, and prescription drugs, as well as fraud and child pornography. (2) The extent to which new technology tools, capabilities, or legal authorities may be required for effective investigation and prosecution of unlawful conduct that involves the use of the Internet; and (3) The potential for new or existing tools and capabilities to educate and empower parents, teachers, and others to prevent or to minimize the risks from unlawful conduct that involves the use of the Internet.

(b)   shall undertake this review in the context of current   Internet policy, which includes support for industry self-regulation where possible, technology-neutral laws and regulations, and an appreciation of the Internet as an important medium both domestically and internationally for commerce and free speech.

 . 2. Schedule.   shall complete its work to the greatest extent possible and present its report and recommendations to the President and Vice President within   of the date of this order. Prior to such presentation, the report and recommendations shall be circulated through   for review and comment by all appropriate Federal agencies.

 . 3. Membership.

(a)   shall be composed of the following members: (1) The Attorney General (who shall serve as  ). (2) The Director of  . (3) The Secretary of the  . (4) The Secretary of  . (5) The Secretary of  . (6) The Director of  . (7) The Director of  . (8) The Administrator of  . (9) The Chair of the Federal Trade Commission. (10) The Commissioner of  ; and (11) Other Federal officials deemed appropriate by  .

(b) The co-chairs of   shall serve as liaison to and attend meetings of  . Members of   may serve on   through designees.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
