Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ("IEEPA"),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 505 of   of   (22 U.S.C. 2349aa-9) ("ISDCA"), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , in order to clarify the steps taken in Executive Orders  , and   of  , to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of   declared in Executive Order   in response to the actions and policies of  , hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 3 of this order or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the importation into   of any goods or services of   origin or owned or controlled by  , other than information or informational materials within the meaning of section 203(b)(3) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)), is hereby prohibited.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in section 3 of this order, in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the following are prohibited:

(a) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of any goods, technology, or services to   or  , including the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of any goods, technology, or services to a person in a third country undertaken with knowledge or reason to know that:

(i) such goods, technology, or services are intended specifically for supply, transshipment, or reexportation, directly or indirectly, to   or  ; or

(ii) such goods, technology, or services are intended specifically for use in the production of, for commingling with, or for incorporation into goods, technology, or services to be directly or indirectly supplied, transshipped, or reexported exclusively or predominantly to   or  ;

(b) the reexportation from a third country, directly or indirectly, by a person other than a   person of any goods, technology, or services that have been exported from  , if:

(i) undertaken with knowledge or reason to know that the reexportation is intended specifically for   or  , and

(ii) the exportation of such goods, technology, or services to   from   was subject to export license application requirements under any   regulations in effect on  , or thereafter is made subject to such requirements imposed independently of the actions taken pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  ; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to those goods or that technology subject to export license application requirements if such goods or technology have been:

(A) substantially transformed into a foreign-made product outside  ; or

(B) incorporated into a foreign-made product outside   if the aggregate value of such controlled   goods and technology constitutes less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made product to be exported from a third country;

(c) any new investment by a   person in   or in property, including entities, owned or controlled by  ;

(d) any transaction or dealing by a   person, wherever located, including purchasing, selling, transporting, swapping, brokering, approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing, in or related to:

(i) goods or services of   origin or owned or controlled by  ; or

(ii) goods, technology, or services for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to   or  ;

(e) any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a   person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this order if performed by a   person or within  ; and

(f) any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. Specific licenses issued pursuant to Executive Orders   (of  ),  , or   continue in effect in accordance with their terms except to the extent revoked, amended, or modified by the Secretary of the  . General licenses, regulations, orders, and directives issued pursuant to those orders continue in effect in accordance with their terms except to the extent inconsistent with this order or to the extent revoked, amended, or modified by the Secretary of the  .

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term " " means the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements;

(e) the term "Government of Iran" includes  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;

(f) the term "new investment" means:

(i) a commitment or contribution of funds or other assets; or

(ii) a loan or other extension of credit,

made after the effective date of Executive Order   as to transactions prohibited by that order, or otherwise made after the effective date of Executive Order  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and, as appropriate, other agencies, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, the requirement of reports, including reports by   persons on oil and related transactions engaged in by their foreign affiliates with   or  , and to employ all powers granted to me by   and the   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. (a) The Secretary of the   may authorize the exportation or reexportation to   or   of any goods, technology, or services also subject to export license application requirements of another agency of   only if authorization by that agency of the exportation or reexportation to   would be permitted by law.

(b) Nothing contained in this order shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of   in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency.

 . 7. The provisions of this order consolidate the provisions of Executive Orders  , and  . Executive   and subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of section 1 of Executive Order   are hereby revoked with respect to transactions occurring after the effective date of this order. The revocation of those provisions shall not alter their applicability to any transaction or violation occurring before the effective date of this order, nor shall it affect the applicability of any rule, regulation, order, license, or other form of administrative action previously taken pursuant to Executive Orders    .

 . 8. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 9. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 . 10. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:16 a.m.,  ]
