Executive Order  —Creation of   for the Director of   as   Governments Representative on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , (21 U.S.C.   et seq.), and in order to develop recommendations for Federal agency actions to address the use of drugs in sports, in particular among young people, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. The use of drugs in sports has reached a level that endangers not just the legitimacy of athletic competition but also the lives and health of athletes—from the elite ranks to youth leagues.   issued in   found that in  ’s time the rate of steroid use among young people rose roughly 50 percent among both sexes and across all age groups. It is the policy of my Administration to take the steps needed to help eliminate illicit or otherwise banned drug use and doping in sports at the  , national, and international level.

 . 2. Establishment of  .

(a)

There is established a   (Task Force). The Task Force shall comprise the co-vice chairs of   (the "Olympic Task Force Vice Chairs"), and representatives designated by  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(b)

The Task Force shall develop recommendations for the President on further executive and legislative actions that can be undertaken to address the problem of doping and drug use in sports. In developing the recommendations, the Task Force shall consider, among other things: (i) the health and safety of  ’s athletes, in particular our  ’s young people;

(ii)

the integrity of honest athletic competition; and (iii) the views and recommendations of   and local governments, the private sector, citizens, community groups, and nonprofit organizations, on actions to address this threat.  , through its  , shall submit its recommendations to the President.

(c)

The Director of   (the Director), the Secretary of  , and   or their designees shall serve as  .

(d) To the extent permitted by law and at the request of the Chairs,

agencies shall cooperate with and provide information to  . Sec. 3. Participation in the World Anti-Doping Agency. (a) As part of my  ’s efforts to address the problem of drug use in sports,   has played a leading role in the formation of a World Anti-Doping Agency ( ) by the Olympic and sports community and the nations of the world. Through these efforts,   has been selected to serve as a governmental representative on the board of the  . This order will authorize the Director to serve as   representative on the   board.

(b)

Pursuant to 21 U.S.C.   et seq., the Director, or in his absence his designee, is hereby authorized to take all necessary and proper actions to execute his responsibilities as   representative to the  .

(c)

To assist the Director in carrying out these responsibilities as   representative to the   and to the extent permitted by law, Federal employees may serve in their official capacity,  , on   or   advisory committees, serving as experts to the  .

 

 ,

 .
