Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections   and   of title 31, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Purpose. It is essential to guarantee that the net deficit reduction achieved by   of   is dedicated exclusively to reducing the deficit.

 . 2.  .

(a). Establishment of the Fund. There is established a separate account in the  , known as  , which shall receive the net deficit reduction achieved by   of   as called for in subsection (b) of this order.

(b)

Amounts in Fund. Beginning upon enactment of   of  ,   shall receive any increases in total revenues resulting from enactment of such Act on a   basis. In addition, on a   basis, the Secretary of the   shall enter into such account an amount equivalent to the net deficit reduction achieved as a result of all spending reductions resulting from such Act. The cumulative   amounts for the combination of all such revenue increases and spending reductions shall be equal to:

(1)

for  , $60,292,000,000;

(2)

for  , $70,437,000,000;

(3)

for  , $92,061,000,000;

(4)

for  , $125,881,000,000;

(5)

for  , $146,939,000,000. Within   of enactment of  of  , the foregoing amounts may be adjusted by the Director of   to reflect the final scoring of such Act.

(c)

Status of Amounts in Fund. (i) The amounts in   shall be used exclusively to redeem maturing debt obligations of the   of   held by foreign governments in the amounts specified in subsection (b).

(ii) The amounts in   as set forth in subsection (b) that result from increases in total revenues and spending reductions shall not be available for new spending or to finance measures that increase the deficit for purposes of budget enforcement procedures under   of   (2 U.S.C. 901– 922).

(d)

Effect on Other Funds. Establishment of and transfers to   shall not affect trust fund transfers that may be authorized or required by provisions of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of   or any other provision of law.

 . 3. Requirement for the President To Report   on  . The Director of   shall include in the President’s Budget transmitted under section 1105 of title

31, United States Code, information about  , including a separate statement of amounts in and   debt redeemed by that Fund.

 . 4. Implementation. The Secretary of the   and the Director of   shall each take such actions as may be necessary, within their respective authorities, promptly to carry out this order.

 . 5.  . This order shall take effect upon enactment of   of  .

 

 ,

 .
