Executive Order  —  Proficiency
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to improve access to federally conducted and federally assisted programs and activities for persons who, as a result of national origin, are limited in their English proficiency ( ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Goals.

  provides and funds an array of services that can be made accessible to otherwise eligible persons who are not proficient in the English language.   is committed to improving the accessibility of these services to eligible   persons, a goal that reinforces its equally important commitment to promoting programs and activities designed to help individuals learn English. To this end, each Federal agency shall examine the services it provides and develop and implement a system by which   persons can meaningfully access those services consistent with, and without unduly burdening, the fundamental mission of the agency. Each Federal agency shall also work to ensure that recipients of Federal financial assistance (recipients) provide meaningful access to their   applicants and beneficiaries. To assist the agencies with this endeavor,   has   issued a general guidance document ( ), which sets forth the compliance standards that recipients must follow to ensure that the programs and activities they normally provide in English are accessible to   persons and thus do not discriminate on the basis of national origin in violation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of  , as amended, and its implementing regulations. As described in  , recipients must take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to their programs and activities by   persons.

 . 2.   and Activities.

Each Federal agency shall prepare a plan to improve access to its federally conducted programs and activities by eligible   persons. Each plan shall be consistent with the standards set forth in the LEP Guidance, and shall include the steps the agency will take to ensure that eligible   persons can meaningfully access the agency’s programs and activities. Agencies shall develop and begin to implement these plans within   of the date of this order, and shall send copies of their plans to  , which shall serve as the central repository of the agencies’ plans.

 . 3.   and Activities.

Each agency providing Federal financial assistance shall draft title VI guidance specifically tailored to its recipients that is consistent with the   issued by  . This agency-specific guidance shall detail how the general standards established in   will be applied to the agency’s recipients. The agency-specific guidance shall take into account the types of services provided by the recipients, the individuals served by the recipients, and other factors set out in the LEP Guidance. Agencies that already have developed title VI guidance that   determines is consistent with the   shall examine their existing guidance, as well as their programs and activities, to determine if additional guidance is necessary to comply with this order.   shall consult with the agencies in creating their guidance and, within   of the date of this order,

each agency shall submit its specific guidance to   for review and approval. Following approval by  , each agency shall publish its guidance document in   for public comment.

 . 4. Consultations.

In carrying out this order, agencies shall ensure that stakeholders, such as   persons and their representative organizations, recipients, and other appropriate individuals or entities, have an adequate opportunity to provide input. Agencies will evaluate the particular needs of the   persons they and their recipients serve and the burdens of compliance on the agency and its recipients. This input from stakeholders will assist the agencies in developing an approach to ensuring meaningful access by   persons that is practical and effective, fiscally responsible, responsive to the particular circumstances of each agency, and can be readily implemented.

 . 5.  .

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers or employees, or any person.

 

 ,

 .
