Executive  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to further improve the provision of air traffic services, an inherently governmental function, in ways that increase efficiency, take better advantage of new technologies, accelerate modernization efforts, and respond more effectively to the needs of the traveling public, while enhancing the safety, security, and efficiency of the  ’s air transportation system, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of  . (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall, consistent with his legal authorities, move to establish within   ( ) a performancebased organization to be known as  " ( ).

(b)

The   shall be composed of those elements of the  ’s   Research and Acquisition organizations that have direct connection and give support to the provision of day-to-day operational air traffic services, as determined by  ). The Administrator may delegate responsibility for any operational activity of the air traffic control system to the head of the  . The Administrator’s responsibility for general safety, security, and policymaking functions for   is unaffected by this order.

(c)

The Chief Operating Officer ( ) of  , established by   for   (Air-21) (Public Law 106-181), shall head the   and shall report directly to the Administrator and be subject to the authority of the Administrator. The  , in consultation with   of  , shall enter into an   performance agreement with the Administrator that sets forth measurable organization and individual goals in key operational areas and describes specific targets and how such goals will be achieved. The   may receive an   bonus not to exceed 30 percent of the   rate of basic pay, based upon the Administrator’s evaluation of the  ’s performance in relation to the targets and goals described above.

(d)

The   shall develop a   strategic plan for the air traffic control system, including a clear statement of the mission and objectives for the system’s safety, efficiency, and productivity. This strategic plan must ensure that   actions are consistent with long-term   strategies for the aviation system as a whole.

(e)

The   shall also enter into a framework agreement with the Administrator that will establish the relationship of the   with the other organizations of the  .

 . 2. Purpose. The  ’s primary mission is to ensure the safety, security, and efficiency of  . The purpose of this order is to enhance that mission and further improve the delivery of air traffic services to the   public by reorganizing the  ’s air traffic services and related offices into a performance-based, results-oriented, organization. The   will be better able to make use of the unique procurement and personnel authorities that the   currently has and to better use the additional management reforms enacted by the     under Air-21. Specifically, the   shall:

(a)

optimize use of existing management flexibilities and authorities to improve the efficiency of air traffic services and increase the capacity of the system;

(b)

develop methods to accelerate air traffic control modernization and to improve aviation safety related to air traffic control;

(c)

develop agreements with     and users of the products, services, and capabilities it will provide;

(d)

operate in accordance with safety performance standards developed by the   and rapidly respond to   safety and security oversight findings;

(e)

consult with its customers, the traveling public, including direct users such as airlines, cargo carriers, manufacturers, airports, general aviation, and commercial space transportation providers, and focus on producing results that satisfy the  ’s external customer needs;

(f)

consult with appropriate  , and local public agencies, including   and  , to determine the best practices for meeting the diverse needs throughout  ;

(g) establish strong incentives to managers for achieving results; and

(h)

formulate and recommend to the Administrator any management, fiscal, or legislative changes necessary for the organization to achieve its performance goals.

 . 3.  .   of   shall provide, consistent with its responsibilities under Air-21, general oversight to   regarding the administration, management, conduct, direction, and supervision of the air traffic control system.

 . 4. Evaluation and Report. Not   after the date of this order,   shall provide to the Secretary and the Administrator a report on the operation and effectiveness of the  , together with any recommendations for management, fiscal, or legislative changes to enable the organization to achieve its goals.

 . 5. Definitions. The term "air traffic control system" has the same meaning as the term defined by section 40102(a)(42) of title  , United States Code.

 . 6.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .
