Executive Order  —  in the Administration of the Federal Government
 
 

By the authority vested in my as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended (31 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to assist in the control of the   deficit and improve the administrative productivity of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. All executive departments and agencies shall include a separate category for "administrative expenses" when submitting their appropriation requests to   (OMB) for  . The Director of OMB (Director), in consultation with the agencies, shall establish and revise as necessary a definition of administrative expenses for the agencies. All questions regarding the definition of administrative expenses shall be resolved by the Director.

 . 2. The purpose of this order is to achieve real reductions in the administrative costs of Federal agencies. In order to accomplish that goal, agencies shall submit budgets that reflect the following reductions from   baseline:

(a)

For  , all agencies shall submit budget requests that reflect no less than a 3 percent reduction in administrative expenses from the amount made available for   adjusted for inflation;

(b)

For  , all agencies shall submit budget requests that reflect no less than a 6 percent reduction in administrative expenses from the amounts made available for   adjusted for inflation;

(c)

For  , all agencies shall submit budget requests that reflect no less than a 9 percent reduction in administrative expenses from the amounts made available for   adjusted for inflation;

(d)

For  , all agencies shall submit budget requests that reflect no less than a 14 percent reduction in administrative expenses from the amounts made available for   adjusted for inflation.

 . 3. The Director shall review agency requests for administrative expenses. The Director shall ensure that all agency requests or such expenses are reduced in accordance with section 2. To the extent that any agency fails to comply with the mandates of section 2, the Director is authorized to reduce the request for administrative expenses in that agency’s budget to achieve the appropriate reduction.

 . 4 All independent regulatory commissions and agencies are requested to comply with the provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 .
