Executive Order  —  Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1–1. Implementation.

1–101.  .

To the greatest extent practicable and permitted by law, and consistent with the principles set forth in the report on  , each Federal agency shall make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations and low-income populations in   and its territories and possessions,  ,  , and  .

1–102. Creation of  .

(a) Within   of this order,   ("Administrator") or the  's designee shall convene an interagency   (" "). The   shall comprise the heads of the following executive agencies and offices, or their designees: (a)  ; (b)  ; (c)  ; (d)  ; (e)  ; (f)  ; (g)  ; (h)  ; (i)  ; (j)  ; (k) Environmental Protection Agency; (l)  ; (m)  ; (n) Office of the Deputy Assistant to the President for Environmental Policy; (o) Office of the Assistant to the President for Domstic Policy; (p)  ; (q)  ; and (r) such other   officials as the President may designate.   shall report to the President through the Deputy Assistant to the President for Environmental Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.

(b)   shall: (1) provide guidance to Federal agencies on criteria for identifying disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations and low-income populations;

(2) coordinate with, provide guidance to, and serve as a clearinghouse for, each Federal agency as it develops an environmental justice strategy as required by section 1–103 of this order, in order to ensure that the administration, interpretation and enforcement of programs, activities and policies are undertaken in a consistent manner;

(3) assist in coordinating research by. and stimulating cooperation among,  ,  

rvices

,  , and other agencies conducting research or other activities in accordance with section 3-3 of this order;

(4) assist in coordinating data collection, required by this order;

(5) examine existing data and studies on environmental justice;

(6) hold public meetings at required in section 5-502(d) of this order; and

(7) develop interagency model projects on environmental justice that evidence cooperation among Federal agencies.

1-103.

Development of Agency Strategies.

(a) Except as provided in section 6-605 of this order, each Federal agency shall develop an agency-wide environmental justice strategy, as set forth in subsections (b) - (e) of this section that identifies and addresses disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations and low-income populations. The environmental justice strategy shall list programs, policies, planning and public participation processes, enforcement, and/or rulemakings related to human health or the environment that should be revised to. at a minimum: (1) promote enforcement of all health and environmental statutes in areas with minority populations and low-income populations: (2) ensure greater public participation; (3) improve research and data collection relating to the health of and environment of minority populations and low-income populations: and (4) identify differential patterns of consumption of natural resources among minority populations and low-income populations. In addition, the environmental justice strategy shall include, where appropriate, a timetable for undertaking identified revisions and consideration of economic and social implications of the revisions.

(b) Within   of this order, each Federal agency shall identify an internal administrative process for developing its environmental justice strategy, and shall inform   of the process.

(c) Within   of this order, each Federal agency shall provide   with an outline of its proposed environmental justice strategy.

(d) Within   of this order, each Federal agency shall provide   with its proposed environmental justice strategy.

(e) Within   of this order, each Federal agency shall finalize its environmental justice strategy and provide a copy and written description of its strategy to  . D

uring

  period from the date of this order, each Federal agency, as part of its environmental justice strategy, shell identify several specific projects that can be promptly undertaken to address particular concerns identified during the development of the proposed environmental justice strategy, and a schedule for implementing those projects.

(f) Within   of this order, each Federal agency shall report to   on its progress in implementing its agency-wide environmental justice strategy.

(g) Federal agencies shall provide additional periodic reports to   as requested by  .

1–104. Reports to the President.

Within   of this order,   shall submit to the President, through   Assistant to the President for Environmental Policy and   to the President for Domestic Policy, a report that describes the implementation of this order, and includes the final environmental justice strategies described in  ) of this order.

 .  .

Federal Agency Responsibilities for Federal Programs.

Each Federal agency shall conduct its programs, policies, and activities that substantially affect human health or the environment, in a manner that ensures that such programs, policies, and activities do not have the effect of excluding persons (including populations) from participation in, denying persons (including populations) the benefits of, or subjecting persons (including populations) to discrimination under, such programs, policies, and activities, because of their race, color, or national origin.

 . 3–3. Research,  , and  .

3–301. Human Health and Environmental Research and  .

(a) Environmental human health research, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall include diverse segments of the population in epidemiological and clinical studies, including segments at high risk from environmental hazards, such as minority populations, low-income populations and workers who may be exposed to substantial environmental hazards.

(b) Environmental human health analyses, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall identify multiple and cumulative exposures.

(c) Federal agencies shall provide minority populations and low-income populations the opportunity to comment on the development and design of research strategies undertaken pursuant to this order.

3–302. Human Health and  .

To the extent permitted by existing law, including the Privacy Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. section 552a): (a) each Federal agency, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall collect, maintain, and analyze information assessing and comparing environmental and human health risks borne by populations identified by race, national origin, or income. To the extent practical and appropriate, Federal agencies shall use this information to determine whether their programs, policies, and activities have disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations and low-income populations;

(b) In connection with the development and implementation of agency strategies in section 1–103 of this order, each Federal agency, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall collect, maintain and analyze information on the race, national origin, income level, and other readily accessible and appropriate information for areas surrounding facilities or sites expected to have a substantial environmental, human health, or economic effect on the surrounding populations, when such facilities or sites become the subject of a substantial Federal environmental administrative or judicial action. Such information shall be made available to the public, unless prohibited by law; and

(c) Each Federal agency, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall collect, maintain, and analyze information on the race, national origin, income level, and other readily accessible and appropriate information for areas surrounding Federal facilities that are: (1) subject to the reporting requirements under  ,   U.S.C. section 11001–11050 as mandated in Executive Order No.  ; and (2) expected to have a substantial environmental, human health, or economic effect on surrounding populations. Such information shall be made available to the public, unless prohibited by law.

(d) In carrying out the responsibilities in this section, each Federal agency, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall share information and eliminate unnecessary duplication of efforts through the use of existing data systems and cooperative agreements among   agencies and with  , local, and tribal governments.

 . 4–4.   Wildlife.

4–401.  .

In order to assist in identifying the need for ensuring protection of populations with differential patterns of subsistence consumption of fish and wildlife, Federal agencies, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall collect, maintain, and analyze information on the consumption patterns of populations who principally rely on fish and/or wildlife for subsistence. Federal agencies shall communicate to the public the risks of those consumption patterns.

4–402. Guidance.

Federal agencies, whenever practicable and appropriate, shall work in a coordinated manner to publish guidance reflecting the latest scientific information available concerning methods for evaluating the human health risks associated with the consumption of pollutant-bearing fish or wildlife. Agencies shall consider such guidance in developing their policies and rules.

 . 5–5.

Public Participation and Access to Information.

(a) The public may submit recommendations to Federal agencies relating to the incorporation of environmental justice principles into Federal agency programs or policies. Each Federal agency shall convey such recommendations to  .

(b) Each Federal agency may, whenever practicable and appropriate, translate crucial public documents, notices, and hearings relating to human health or the environment for limited English speaking populations.

(c) Each Federal agency shall work to ensure that public documents, notices, and hearings relating to human health or the environment are concise, understandable, and readily accessible to the public.

(d)   shall hold public meetings, as appropriate, for the purpose of fact-finding, receiving public comments, and conducting inquiries concerning environmental justice.   shall prepare for public review a summary of the comments and recommendations discussed at the public meetings.

 . 6–6.  .

6–601. Responsibility for Agency Implementation.

The head of each   agency shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this order. Each Federal agency shall conduct internal reviews and take such other steps as may be necessary to monitor compliance with this order.

6–602. Executive  .  .

This Executive order is intended to supplement but not supersede Executive Order No.  , which requires consistent and effective implementation of various laws prohibiting discriminatory practices in programs receiving Federal financial assistance. Nothing herein shall limit the effect or mandate of Executive Order No.  .

6–603. Executive  .  .

This Executive order is not intended to limit the effect or mandate of Executive Order No.  .

6–604. Scope.

For purposes of this order, Federal agency means any agency on  , and such other agencies as may be designated by the President, that conducts any Federal program or activity that substantially affects human health or the environment. Independent agencies are requested to comply with the provisions of this order.

6–605. Petitions for Exemptions.

The head of a   agency may petition the President for an exemption from the requirements of this order on the grounds that all or some of the petitioning agency's programs or activities should not be subject to the requirements of this order.

6–606.  .

Each Federal agency responsibility set forth under this order shall apply equally to   programs. In addition,  , in coordination with  , and, after consultation with tribal leaders, shall coordinate steps to be taken pursuant to this order that address Federally-recognized   Tribes.

6–607. Costs.

Unless otherwise provided by law, Federal agencies shall assume the financial costs of complying with this order.

6–608. General.

Federal agencies shall implement this order consistent with, and to the extent permitted by, existing law.

6–609.  .

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, nor does it create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person. This order shall not be construed to create any right to judicial review involving the compliance or noncompliance of  , its agencies, its officers, or any other person with this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:07 p.m.,  ]
