Executive Order  —Lifting and Modifying Measures With Respect to    and  )
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of l945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution 827 of   (UNSCR 827), and subsequent resolutions,

I,  , President of  , found in Executive Order  , that the actions and policies of    and  ) (the "FRY (S&M)") and   with respect to  , by promoting ethnic conflict and human suffering, threatened to destabilize countries of the region and to disrupt progress in   in implementing the   peace agreement, and therefore constituted an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  . I declared a national emergency to deal with that threat and ordered that economic sanctions be imposed with respect to those governments. I issued Executive Order   of  , in response to the continuing human rights and humanitarian crises in  . That order revised and substantially expanded the sanctions imposed pursuant to Executive Order  .

In view of the peaceful democratic transition begun by President   and other newly elected leaders in the   (S&M), the promulgation of UNSCR 827 and subsequent resolutions calling for all states to cooperate fully with   for the former  , the illegitimate control over   (S&M) political institutions and economic resources or enterprises exercised by former President  , his close associates and other persons, and those individuals’ capacity to repress democracy or perpetrate or promote further human rights abuses, and in order to take steps to counter the continuing threat to regional stability and implementation of the   peace agreement and to address the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order  , I hereby order:

Section 1. Amendments to Executive Order  . (a) Section 1 of Executive Order  , as revised by section 1(a) of Executive Order   of  , l999, is revised to read as follows:

"Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.5.C. 1702(b)), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, I hereby order blocked all property and interests in property that are or hereafter come within   or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, of:

(i)

any person listed in the   to this order; and

(ii)

any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A)

to be under open indictment by   for the former  , subject to applicable laws and procedures;

(B)

to have sought, or to be seeking, through repressive measures or otherwise, to maintain or reestablish illegitimate control over the political processes or institutions or the economic resources

or enterprises of  ,  ,  , or the territory of  ;

(C)

to have provided material support or resources to any person designated in or pursuant to section 1(a) of this order; or

(D)

to be owned or controlled by or acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of any person designated in or pursuant to section 1(a) of this order.

(b)

All property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this order prior to 12:01 a.m.,  , on  , shall remain blocked except as otherwise authorized by the Secretary of the  ."

(b)

Section 2 of Executive Order  , as replaced by section 1(b) of Executive Order  , is revoked and a new section 2 is added to read as follows:

"Sec. 2. Further, except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, I hereby prohibit any transaction or dealing by a   person or within   in property or interests in property of any person designated in or pursuant to section 1(a) of this order."

(c)

Section 3 of Executive Order   is revoked.

(d)

Section 4 of Executive Order  , as revised by section 1(c) of

Executive Order  , is renumbered and revised to read as follows:

" . 3. Any transaction by a   person that evades or avoids,

or has the purpose of evading or avoiding,

or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions of this order is prohibited."

(e) Section 5 of Executive Order   is renumbered and revised to

read as follows:

" . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation or other organization; and

(c)

The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ."

(f) Section 6 of Executive Order   is renumbered and revised to

read as follows: "Sec. 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their statutory authority to carry out the provisions of this order."

(g) A new section 6 is added to Executive Order   to read as follows:

" . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to remove any person from the   to this order as circumstances warrant."

(h) Section 7 of Executive Order  , as revised by section 1(d) of Executive Order  , is revoked.

 . 2.  . Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter under Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or the authority of IEEPA or UNPA, except as hereafter terminated, modified, or suspended by the issuing   agency.

 . 3. No Rights or Privileges Conferred. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, officers, or any other person.

 . 4. (a)  . This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

(b) Transmittal; Publication. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
