Executive Order  —  on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to further the revitalization of, and to improve prospects for the success of "home rule" in  ,  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Background and  .   is  , and   is the largest employer, landholder, and purchaser in the region.   of the President has established and maintained an interest in fostering the   relationship with   since  . This Administration has long sought to strengthen the relationship between   and   by initiating a historic restructuring of this relationship. At the request of the President, in  ,  , chaired by the Director of  , and directed by   to the President and Executive Director of  , was created to revitalize the District of Columbia and improve prospects for "home rule" to succeed in  .   has worked with Federal agencies, the  , and local officials to promote long-term financial stability, economic growth, and opportunity for selfgovernment for  . In  , the President signed into law   of  , under which   undertook certain responsibilities and governmental functions befitting a   or county government. Also in  , the President signed into law tax incentives designed to spur economic growth in  .

It is the policy of this Administration, therefore, to build on the momentum of the accomplishments over   by formally establishing   Interagency Task Force to further assist   in achieving financial stability, economic growth, and improvement in management and service delivery.

 . 2. Establishment of   on  .

(a) There is established  " (Task Force).

(b)

The Task Force shall be composed of the following members:

(1)

The Attorney General;

(2)

The Secretary of  ;

(3)

The Secretary of  ;

(4)

The Secretary of  ;

(5)

The Secretary of  ;

(6)

The Secretary of the  ;

(7)

 ;

(8)

The Secretary of  ;

(9)

The Secretary of the  ;

(10)

The Administrator of  ;

(11)

The Secretary of  ;

(12)

The Secretary of Agriculture;

(13)

The Director of  ;

(14)

The Administrator of  ;

(15)

The Commissioner of the Social Security;

(16)

The Secretary of  ;

(17)

The Director of  ; and

(18)

Such other members as the Director of   may provide (including the Director of   and  , which office is located in  .)

(c)

The Task Force shall be chaired by the Director of   (Director). The Director may appoint an Assistant Director or other senior official to assist in the management of  .

(d)

  shall provide administrative support for  . To the extent permitted by law, other executive departments and agencies may provide such staff, resources, and information as may be required in carrying out the provisions of this order.

(e)

The Director shall develop, review, modify, and, as appropriate, implement program recommendations, in cooperation with the appropriate elected   and local officials and agencies, to promote long-term financial stability, economic growth, and opportunity for self-government for  .

(f)

To the extent permitted by law, the Task Force staff shall communicate with   and local elected officials as early in program planning cycles as reasonably feasible, to develop and explain specific   and local plans and program actions.

 . 3. Purpose. The purpose of   will be to coordinate and better leverage Administration efforts and initiatives for   in concert with local and regional initiatives to improve the long-term financial stability of   and to improve self-governance. The Director’s designee shall serve as liaison between the executive branch and the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of government of  , as well as the private sector.

 . 4. Responsibilities. To the extent permitted by law,   shall:

(a)

formulate and recommend interagency compacts and cooperative agreements between   agencies and  ;

(b)

develop, on a continuing basis, a comprehensive and coordinated plan to establish priorities to promote long-term financial stability, economic growth, and opportunity for self-government for  ;

(c)

provide for an understanding by the public of the needs and assets of  ;

(d)

support District efforts to encourage economic growth in  ;

(e)

serve as the focal point and coordinating unit for Federal programs, technical assistance, and other support for  ; and

(f) provide a forum for consideration of problems within the District

of   and propose and effectuate solutions.  . 5. Assistance to Economically Distressed Areas. Members of  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing budgetary resources, shall provide targeted assistance to economically distressed areas within   and to projects that require economic development

assistance. To the extent permitted by law, members of the Task Force shall also participate in comprehensive neighborhood revitalization initiatives requiring Federal assistance, including programs organized by the government of  , and collaborative efforts organized by private organizations, such as the Anacostia Best Practices initiative.

 . 6.  . To the extent permitted by law,   shall make efforts to accommodate the concerns of local elected officials in proposing Federal technical or other assistance.

 . 7.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by law against  , its officers, its employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .
