Executive Order  —Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (22 U.S.C.   et seq.) (AECA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and means of delivering them and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order   of  , hereby order:

Section 1. Amendment of Executive Order  .

(a) Section 4 of Executive Order   of  , is revised to read as follows:

" . 4. Measures Against Foreign Persons.

(a) Determination by Secretary of  ;  . Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), where applicable, if the Secretary of   determines that a foreign person, on or after  , the effective date of Executive Order  , the predecessor order to Executive Order  , has materially contributed or attempted to contribute materially to the efforts of any foreign country, project, or entity of proliferation concern to use, acquire, design, develop, produce, or stockpile weapons of mass destruction or missiles capable of delivering such weapons, the measures set forth in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be imposed on that foreign person to the extent determined by the Secretary of   in consultation with the implementing agency and other relevant agencies. Nothing in this section is intended to preclude the imposition on that foreign person of other measures or sanctions available under this order or under other authorities.

(b) Procurement Ban. No department or agency of   may procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any goods, technology, or services from any foreign person described in subsection (a) of this section.

(c)  . No department or agency of   may provide any assistance to any foreign person described in subsection (a) of this section, and no such foreign person shall be eligible to participate in any assistance program of  .

(d) Import Ban. The Secretary of the   shall prohibit the importation into   of goods, technology, or services produced or provided by any foreign person described in subsection (a) of this section, other than information or informational materials within the meaning of section 203(b)(3) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

(e) Termination. Measures pursuant to this section may be terminated against a foreign person if the Secretary of   determines that there is reliable evidence that such foreign person has ceased all activities referred to in subsection (a) of this section.

(f) Exceptions. Departments and agencies of  , acting in consultation with the Secretary of  , may, by license, regulation, order, directive, exception, or otherwise, provide for:

(i) Procurement contracts necessary to meet   operational

military requirements or requirements under defense production

agreements; intelligence requirements; sole source suppliers,

spare parts, components, routine servicing and maintenance of

products for  ; and medical and

humanitarian items; and

(ii) Performance pursuant to contracts in force on the effective

date of this order under appropriate circumstances."

(b) Section 6 of Executive Order   of  , is amended by deleting "4(c)" and inserting "4(e)" in lieu thereof.

 . 2.  . Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter under the authority of  , AECA,   of  ,   of  , the Atomic Energy Act, the Export Administration Act (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , or Executive Order   of  .

 . 3.  . Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 4.  .

(a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:40 a.m.,  ]
