Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to improve the coordination of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby established within   a senior-level   on   (" "). The purpose of   is to recommend to the President measures for improving the coordination, efficiency, and effectiveness of  -sponsored international exchanges and training.   shall establish a clearinghouse to improve data collection and analysis of international exchanges and training.

 . 2. The term "Government-sponsored international exchanges and training" shall mean the movement of people between countries to promote the sharing of ideas, to develop skills, and to foster mutual understanding and cooperation, financed wholly or in part, directly or indirectly, with   funds.

 . 3. The   shall consist of the Associate Director for   of  , who shall act as  , and a comparable senior representative appointed by the respective Secretary of each of  , Defense, Education, and the Attorney General, by  , and by heads of other interested executive departments and agencies. In addition, representatives of   and the Director of   shall participate in   at their discretion.   shall be supported by an interagency staff office established in   of  .

 . 4.   shall have the following responsibilities:

(a) Collect, analyze, and report data provided by   departments and agencies conducting international exchanges and training programs;

(b) Promote greater understanding of and cooperation on, among concerned   departments and agencies, common issues and challenges faced in conducting international exchanges and training programs, including through the establishment of a clearinghouse for information on international exchange and training activities in the governmental and nongovernmental sectors;

(c) In order to achieve the most efficient and cost-effective use of Federal resources, identify administrative and programmatic duplication and overlap of activities by the various   agencies involved in Government-sponsored international exchange and training programs, and report thereon;

(d)   from the date of this order, develop initially and thereafter assess   a coordinated strategy for  -sponsored international exchange and training programs, and issue a report on such strategy;

(e)   from the date of this order, develop recommendations on performance measures for  -sponsored international exchange and training programs, and issue a report thereon; and

(f) Develop strategies for expanding public and private partnerships in, and leveraging private sector support for,  -sponsored international exchange and training activities.

 . 5. All reports prepared by   pursuant to section 4 shall be made to the President, through the Director of  .

 . 6.   shall meet on at least a   basis.

 . 7. Any expenses incurred by a member of   in connection with such member's service on   shall be borne by the member's respective department or agency.

 . 8. If any member of   disagrees with respect to any matter in any report prepared pursuant to section 4, such member may prepare a statement setting forth the reasons for such disagreement and such statement shall be appended to, and considered a part of, the report.

 . 9. Nothing in this Executive order is intended to alter the authorities and responsibilities of the head of any department or agency.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:15 a.m.,  ]
