Executive Order  —  in the Executive Branch
 
 

Improvement of Government operations is a continuing process that benefits from interagency activities. One group dedicated to such activities is the President's  ), established by Executive Order 12479 in  , reestablished by Executive Order   in  . In  , some activities of the   have been assumed by  , the Chief Financial Officers Council, and the Chief Information Officers Council. These organizations are also focussed on improving agencies' use of quality management principles. Other functions have been assigned to individual agencies. Nonetheless, remaining administrative management matters deserve attention across agency lines.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of   and in order to improve agency administrative and management practices throughout the executive branch, I hereby direct the following:

Section 1. Interagency  .

(a) Purpose and  .   ("Council") is established as an interagency coordination mechanism. The   shall be composed of the Deputy Director for  , who shall serve as  , and one senior administrative management official from each of the following agencies:

1.  ; 2. Department of the  ; 3.  ; 4.  ; 5.  ; 6.  ; 7.  ; 8.  ; 9.  ; 10.  ; 11.  ; 12.  ; 13.  ; 14.  ; 15.  ; 16.  ; 17.  ; 18.  ; 19.  ; 20. Department of the  ; 21.  ; 22.  ; 23. Agency for  ; 24.  ; 25.  ; and 26.  Department and agency heads shall advise the Chair of their selections for membership on   Council membership shall also include representatives of the Chief Financial Officers Council, the Chief Information Officers Council,  ,  , and  , as well as at-large members appointed by the  , as he deems appropriate. The   shall invite representatives of   to participate in the  's work, as appropriate. The   shall select a Vice Chair from among the  's membership.

(b) The   shall plan, promote, and recommend improvements in   administration and operations and provide advice to the   on matters pertaining to the administrative management of  . The   shall:

(1) explore opportunities for more effective use of Government resources;

(2) support activities and initiatives of  , the Chief  , the Chief Information Officers Council,  , and   designed to develop, review, revise, and implement   administrative management policies; and

(3) identify successful administrative management practices, including quality management practices, and assist in their   dissemination and implementation.

 . 2. Responsibilities of the Chair. The   or, if the   chooses, the Vice Chair shall:

(1) convene meetings of the  ;

(2) preside at formal council meetings;

(3) establish committees or working groups of the  , as necessary for efficient conduct of   functions; and

(4) appoint, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with personnel practices, other full-time officers or employees of   to the   as at-large members for specific terms, not exceeding  , to provide expertise to the  .

 . 3. Responsibilities of Agency Heads. To the extent permitted by law, heads of departments or agencies represented on the   shall provide their representatives with administrative support needed to support   activities.

 . 4.  . This order is for the internal management of the executive branch and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 5. Revocation. Executive Order   (creating the President's  ), Executive Order   (establishing the executive branch productivity improvement program) and Executive Order   (revising the executive branch productivity improvement program) are revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:12 p.m.,  ]
