Executive Order  —Increasing Participation of     and   in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to improve the quality of life of     and   through increased participation in Federal programs where they may be underserved (e.g., health, human services, education, housing, labor, transportation, and economic and community development), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. (a) There is established in   the President's   on     and  ). The   shall consist of not more than 15 members appointed by the President, one of which shall be designated by the President as  . The   shall include members who: (i) have a history of involvement with the     and Pacific Islander communities; (ii) are from the fields of health, human services, education, housing, labor, transportation, economic and community development, civil rights, and the business community; (iii) are from civic associations representing one or more of the diverse     and Pacific Islander communities; and (iv) have such other experience as the President deems appropriate.

(b) The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall appoint an Executive Director for the  .

 . 2. The   shall provide advice to the President, through the Secretary, on: (a) the development, monitoring, and coordination of Federal efforts to improve the quality of life of     and   through increased participation in Federal programs where such persons may be underserved and the collection of data related to   and Pacific Islander populations and sub-populations; (b) ways to increase public-sector, private-sector, and community involvement in improving the health and well-being of     and  ; and (c) ways to foster research and data on     and  , including research and data on public health.

 . 3.   shall establish   Initiative on     and   (Initiative), an interagency working group (working group) whose members shall be appointed by their respective agencies. The Executive Director of the   shall also serve as the Director of the  , and shall report to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The working group shall include both career and noncareer civil service staff and commissioned officers of   with expertise in health, human services, education, housing, labor, transportation, economic and community development, and other relevant issues. The working groups shall advise the Secretary on the implementation and coordination of Federal programs as they relate to     and   across executive departments and agencies.

 . 4. The head of each executive department and each agency designated by the Secretary shall appoint a senior   official responsible for management or program administration to report directly to the agency head on activity under this   order, and to serve as a liaison to the  . The Secretary also may designated additional   officials, with the agreement of the relevant agency head, to carry out the functions of the  . To the extent permitted by law and to the extent practicable, each executive department and designated agency shall provide any appropriate information requested by the working group, including data relating to the eligibility for and participation of     and   in Federal programs. Where adequate data are not available, the   shall suggest the means of collecting such data.

 . 5. Each executive department and designated agency (collectively, the "agency") shall prepare a plan for, and shall document, its efforts to improve the quality of life of     and   through increased participation in Federal programs where     and Pacific Islanders may be underserved. This plan shall address, among other things, Federal efforts to: (a) improve the quality of life for     and   through increased participation in Federal programs where they may be underserved and the collection of data related to   and Pacific Islander populations and sub-populations; (b) increase public-sector, private-sector, and community involvement in improving the health and well-being of     and  ; and (c) foster research and data on     and  , including research and data on public health. Each agency's plan shall provide appropriate measurable objectives and, after  , shall assess that agency's performance on the goals set in   plan. Each plan shall be submitted at a date to be established by the Secretary.

 . 6. The Secretary shall review the agency plans and develop for submission to the President an integrated Federal plan ( ) to improve the quality of life of     and Pacific Islanders through increased participation in Federal programs where such persons may be underserved. Actions described in the   shall address improving access by     and   to Federal programs and fostering advances in relevant research and data. The Secretary shall ensure that the working group is given the opportunity to comment on the proposed   prior to its submission to the President. The Secretary shall disseminate the Federal Plan to appropriate members of the executive branch. The findings and recommendations in the   shall be considered by the agencies in their policies and activities.

 . 7. Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President that are applicable to the   under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 8. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). To the extent permitted by law and appropriations, and where practicable, agencies shall, upon request by the Secretary, provide assistance to the   and to the  .   shall provide administrative support and funding for the  .

 . 9. The   shall terminate   after the date of this Executive order unless the   is renewed by the President prior to the end of that   period.

 . 10. For the purposes of this order, the terms: (a) "   " includes persons having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the   subcontinent; and (b) "Pacific Islander" includes the aboriginal, indigenous, native peoples of   and other Pacific Islands within the jurisdiction of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
