Executive Order  —Blocking Property of the Governments of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (  and  ),  , and  , and   in   in   to the Situation in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the actions and policies of    and  ) and   with respect to  , by promoting ethnic conflict and human suffering, threaten to destabilize countries of the region and to disrupt progress in   in implementing the   peace agreement, and therefore constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 2 of this order, section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   (  and  ),  , and   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereinafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked.

(b) The blocking of property and property interests in paragraph (a) of this section includes the prohibition of financial transactions with, including trade financing for,   (  and  ),  , and   by   persons.

 . 2. Nothing in section 1 of this order shall prohibit financial transactions, including trade financing, by   persons within the territory of    and  ) if (a) conducted exclusively through the domestic banking system within    and  ) in local currency (dinars), or (b) conducted using bank notes or barter.

 . 3. Except as otherwise provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all new investment by   persons in the territory of  , and the approval or other facilitation by   persons of other persons' new investment in the territory of  , are prohibited.

 . 4. Any transaction by a   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) The term "new investment" means (i) the acquisition of debt or equity interests in, (ii) a commitment or contribution of funds or other assets to, or (iii) a loan or other extension of credit to, a public or private undertaking, entity, or project, including  , other than donations of funds for purely humanitarian purposes to charitable organizations;

(d) The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(e) The term "Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and  )" means the government of    and  ), its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, including all financial institutions and state-owned and socially owned entities organized or located in    and  ) as of  , any successors to such entities, and their respective subsidiaries and branches, wherever located, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing;

(f) The term "Government of the Republic of Serbia" means the government of  , including any subdivisions thereof or local governments therein, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, including all financial institutions and state-owned and socially owned entities organized or located in   as of  , any successors to such entities, and their respective subsidiaries and branches, wherever located, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing;

(g) The term "Government of the Republic of Montenegro" means the government of  , including any subdivisions thereof or local governments therein, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, including all financial institutions and state-owned and socially owned entities organized or located in   as of  , any successors to such entities, and their respective subsidiaries and branches, wherever located, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall give special consideration to the circumstances of   and persons located in and organized under the laws of   in the implementation of this order.

 . 8. Nothing contained in this order shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies or its officers.

 . 9. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
