Executive Order  —Amending   Federal Employees With Psychiatric Disabilities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, and in order to give individuals with psychiatric disabilities the same hiring opportunities as persons with severe physical disabilities or mental retardation under  , and to permit individuals with psychiatric disabilities to obtain   competitive status, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.

(a) It is the policy of   to assure equality of opportunity, full participation, independent living, and economic self-sufficiency for persons with disabilities.   as an employer should serve as a model for the employment of persons with disabilities and utilize the full potential of these talented citizens.

(b)   governing appointment of persons with psychiatric disabilities were adopted   when attitudes about mental illness were different than they are  , which led to stricter standards for hiring persons with psychiatric disabilities than for persons with mental retardation or severe physical disabilities.   provide that persons with mental retardation, severe physical disabilities, or psychiatric disabilities may be hired under excepted appointing authorities. While persons with mental retardation or severe physical disabilities may be appointed for   and may convert to competitive status after completion of   of satisfactory service in their excepted position, people with psychiatric disabilities may not.

(c)   (OPM) and the President's   believe that   could better benefit from the contributions of persons with psychiatric disabilities if they were given the same opportunities available to people with mental retardation or severe physical disabilities.

 . 2. Implementation.

(a) The Director of   shall, consistent with OPM authority, provide that persons with psychiatric disabilities are subject to the same hiring rules as persons with mental retardation or severe physical disabilities.

(b) Civil Service Rule III (5 CFR Part 3) is amended by adding the following new paragraph to subsection (b) of section 3.1:

"(3) An employee with psychiatric disabilities who completes   of satisfactory service in a position excepted from the competitive service."

 . 3. The Director of   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
