Executive Order  —  
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established the "President’s Council on Sustainable Development" ("Council"). The   shall consist of not more than 25 members to be appointed by the President from the public and private sectors and who represent industrial, environmental, governmental, and not-for-profit organizations with experience relating to matters of sustainable development. The President shall designate from among the   members such official or officials to be chairperson, chairpersons, vice-chairperson, or vice-chairpersons of the   as he shall deem appropriate. The   shall coordinate with and report to such officials of the executive branch as the President or the Director of   shall from time to time determine.

 . 2. Functions.

(a) The   shall advise the President on matters involving sustainable development. "Sustainable development" is broadly defined as economic growth that will benefit present and future generations without detrimentally affecting the resources or biological systems of the planet.

 . 3. Administration.

(b)

The   shall develop and recommend to the President a national sustainable development action strategy that will foster economic vitality.

(c)

The chairperson or chairpersons may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the   and may form subcommittees of the   to review and report to   and local sustainable development plans.

(a)

The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information with respect to sustainable development as the   requires to carry out its functions.

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(c)

  shall obtain funding for the   from   or such other sources (including other Federal agencies) as may lawfully contribute to such activities. The funding received shall provide for the administrative and financial support of the  .

(d)

  in   of the President shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services for the   as may be required.

 . 4. General. (a) I have determined that the   shall be established in compliance with  , as amended (5

U.S.C. App.). Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in  

of the President in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b)

The   shall exist for a period of   from the date of this order, unless the  ’s charter is subsequently extended.

(c)

Executive Order No.  , which established  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .
