Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to Haiti
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the

de facto

regime in   and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order: (a) Any payment or transfer of funds or other financial or investment assets or credits to   from or through  , or to or through   from  , except for:

(i) payments and transfers for the conduct of activities in   of  ,  ,  , or foreign diplomatic missions;

(ii) payments and transfers between  

and   for the conduct of activities in   of nongovernmental organizations engaged in the provision in   of essential humanitarian assistance as authorized by the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) payments and transfers from a   person to any close relative of the remitter or of the remitter's spouse who is resident in  , provided that such payments do not exceed $50 per month to any one household, and that neither the

de facto

regime in   nor any person designated by the Secretary of the   as a blocked individual or entity of   is a beneficiary of the remittance;

(iv) reasonable amounts of funds carried by travelers to or from   to cover their travel-related expense; and

(v) payments and transfers incidental to shipments to   of food, medicine, medical supplies, and informational materials exempt from the export prohibitions of this order;

(b) The sale, supply, or exportation by   persons or from  , or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of any goods, technology, or services, regardless of origin, to  , or for the purpose of any business carried on in or operated from  , or any activity by   persons or in   that promotes such sale, supply, or exportation, other than the sale, supply, or exportation of:

(i) informational materials, such as books and other publications, needed for the free flow of information; or

(ii) medicines and medical supplies, as authorized by the Secretary of the  , and rice, beans, sugar, wheat flour, cooking oil, corn, corn flour, milk, and edible tallow, provided that neither the

de facto

regime in   nor any person designated by the Secretary of the   as a blocked individual or entity of   is a direct or indirect party to the transaction; or

(iii) donations of food, medicine, and medical supplies intended to relieve human suffering; and

(c) Any transaction by   persons that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 2. For the purposes of this order, the definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order No.   apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.

 . 4. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 5.

(a) This order shall take effect at 11:59 a.m.,   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:40 p.m.,  ]
