Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established the   to Study Capital Budgeting ("Commission"). The   shall be bipartisan and shall be composed of 11 members appointed by the President. The members of the   shall be chosen from among individuals with expertise in public and private finance, government officials, and leaders in the labor and business communities. The President shall designate two co-chairs from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall report on the following:

(a) Capital budgeting practices in other countries, in   and local governments in this country, and in the private sector; the differences and similarities in their capital budgeting concepts and processes; and the pertinence of their capital budgeting practices for budget decisionmaking and accounting for actual budget outcomes by  ;

(b) The appropriate definition of capital for Federal budgeting, including: use of capital for   itself or the economy at large; ownership by   or some other entity; defense and nondefense capital; physical capital and intangible or human capital; distinctions among investments in and for current, future, and retired workers; distinctions between capital to increase productivity and capital to enhance the quality of life; and existing definitions of capital for budgeting;

(c) The role of depreciation in capital budgeting, and the concept and measurement of depreciation for purposes of a Federal capital budget; and

(d) The effect of a Federal capital budget on budgetary choices between capital and noncapital means of achieving public objectives; implications for macroeconomic stability; and potential mechanisms for budgetary discipline.

 . 3. Report. The   shall adopt its report through majority vote of its full membership. The   shall report to   by  , or within   from its first meeting.

Sec 4. Administration. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b)   shall provide the   with funding and administrative support. The   may have a paid staff, including detailees from   agencies. The Secretary of the   shall perform the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 5.  . The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
