Executive Order  —Increasing Employment of Adults With Disabilities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to increase the employment of adults with disabilities to a rate that is as close as possible to the employment rate of the general adult population and to support the goals articulated in the findings and purpose section of the   with Disabilities Act of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of  .

(a) There is established  " ("Task Force"). The Task Force shall comprise the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Commissioner of  , Secretary of the  , Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Director of  , the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Chairperson of  , the Chair of the President's  , and such other senior executive branch officials as may be determined by  .

(b) The Secretary of   shall be the Chair of the Task Force; the Chair of the President's   shall be the Vice Chair of  .

(c) The purpose of   is to create a coordinated and aggressive national policy to bring adults with disabilities into gainful employment at a rate that is as close as possible to that of the general adult population. The Task Force shall develop and recommend to the President, through  , a coordinated Federal policy to reduce employment barriers for persons with disabilities. Policy recommendations may cover such areas as discrimination, reasonable accommodations, inadequate access to health care, lack of consumer-driven, long-term supports and services, transportation, accessible and integrated housing, telecommunications, assistive technology, community services, child care, education, vocational rehabilitation, training services, job retention, on-the-job supports, and economic incentives to work. Specifically, the Task Force shall:

(1) analyze the existing programs and policies of Task Force member agencies to determine what changes, modifications, and innovations may be necessary to remove barriers to work faced by people with disabilities;

(2) develop and recommend options to address health insurance coverage as a barrier to employment for people with disabilities;

(3) subject to the availability of appropriations, analyze   and private disability systems (e.g., workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, private insurance, and   mental health and mental retardation systems) and their effect on Federal programs and employment of adults with disabilities;

(4) consider statistical and data analysis, cost data, research, and policy studies on public subsidies, employment, employment discrimination, and rates of return-to-work for individuals with disabilities;

(5) evaluate and, where appropriate, coordinate and collaborate on, research and demonstration priorities of Task Force member agencies related to employment of adults with disabilities;

(6) evaluate whether   studies related to employment and training can, and should, include a statistically significant sample of adults with disabilities;

(7) subject to the availability of appropriations, analyze youth programs related to employment (e.g.,   programs, special education, vocational rehabilitation, school-to-work transition, vocational education, and   work incentives and other programs, as may be determined by the   and Vice Chair of  ) and the outcomes of those programs for young people with disabilities;

(8) evaluate whether a single governmental entity or program should be established to provide computer and electronic accommodations for Federal employees with disabilities;

(9) consult with   on policies to increase the employment of people with mental retardation and cognitive disabilities; and

(10) recommend to the President any additional steps that can be taken to advance the employment of adults with disabilities, including legislative proposals, regulatory changes, and program and budget initiatives.

(d)(1) The members of the Task Force shall make the activities and initiatives set forth in this order a high priority within their respective agencies within the levels provided in the President's budget.

(2) The Task Force shall issue its first report to the President by  . The Task Force shall issue a report to the President on  ,  , and a final report on  , the 10th anniversary of the initial implementation of the employment provisions of the   with Disabilities Act of  . The reports shall describe the actions taken by, and progress of, each member of   in carrying out this order. The Task Force shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

(e) As used herein, an adult with a disability is a person with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits at least one major life activity.

 . 2. Specific activities by Task Force members and other agencies.

(a) To ensure that   is a model employer of adults with disabilities, by  ,  ,  , and   shall submit to   a review of   personnel laws, regulations, and policies and, as appropriate, shall recommend or implement changes necessary to improve Federal employment policy for adults with disabilities. This review shall include personnel practices and actions such as: hiring, promotion, benefits, retirement, workers' compensation, retention, accessible facilities, job accommodations, layoffs, and reductions in force.

(b)  ,  ,  , and   shall report to   by  , on their work with the   and others to ensure that   is carried out in accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of  , as amended, and the   with Disabilities Act of  , so that individuals with disabilities and their families can realize the full promise of welfare reform by having an equal opportunity for employment.

(c)  ,  ,  , and  ,  , and the President's   shall work together and report to   by  , on their work to develop small business and entrepreneurial opportunities for adults with disabilities and strategies for assisting low-income adults, including those with disabilities to create small businesses and micro-enterprises. These same agencies, in consultation with   from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, shall assess the impact of   vending program and   on employment and small business opportunities for people with disabilities.

(d)   shall report to   by  , on their examination of their programs to see if they can be used to create new work incentives and to remove barriers to work for adults with disabilities.

(e)  ,  , and  ,  , and   shall work together and report to   by  , on their work to propose remedies to the prevention of people with disabilities from successfully exercising their employment rights under the   with Disabilities Act of   because of the receipt of monetary benefits based on their disability and lack of gainful employment.

(f)   of   and   of  , in cooperation with  ,  , and the President's   shall design and implement a statistically reliable and accurate method to measure the employment rate of adults with more disabilities as soon as possible, but not later than the date of termination of  . Data derived from this methodology shall be published on as frequent a basis as possible.

(g) All executive agencies that are not members of the Task Force shall: (1) coordinate and cooperate with  ; and (2) review their programs and policies to ensure that they are being conducted and delivered in a manner that facilitates and promotes the employment of adults with disabilities. Each agency shall file a report with   on the results of its review on  .

 . 3. Cooperation. All efforts taken by executive departments and agencies under sections 1 and 2 of this order shall, as appropriate, further partnerships and cooperation with public and private sector employers, organizations that represent people with disabilities, organized labor, veteran service organizations, and   and local governments, whenever such partnerships and cooperation are possible and would promote the employment and gainful economic activities of individuals with disabilities.

 . 4.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
