Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and section 135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C. 2155(c)(1)) ("Act"), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established in   ("Trade Representative")  " ("Committee").

 . 2.

Membership.

(a) The   shall consist of not more than 35 members, including, but not limited to, representatives from environmental interest groups, industry (including the environmental technology and environmental services industries), agriculture, services, non-Federal government, and consumer interests. The   should be broadly representative of the key sectors and groups of the economy with an interest in trade and environmental policy issues.

(b) The Chairman of the   shall be elected by the   from among its members. Members of the   shall be appointed by  , in consultation with the   secretaries described in section 2155(c)(1) of title 19, United States Code, for a term of   and may be reappointed for any number of terms. Appointments to the   shall be made without regard to political affiliation. Any member may be removed at the discretion of the Trade Representative.

 . 3.

Functions.

(a) The   shall provide the Trade Representative with policy advice on issues involving trade and the environment.

(b) The   shall submit a report to the President, to the  , and to   at the conclusion of negotiations for each trade agreement referred to in section 102 of the Act. The report shall include an advisory opinion on whether and to what extent the agreement promotes the interests of  .

(c) The   may establish such subcommittees of its members as it deems necessary, subject to the provisions of   and the approval of  , or his designee.

(d) The   shall report its activities to  , or his designee.

 . 4.

Administration.

(a) The Trade Representative, or his designee, with the advice of the Chairman, shall be responsible for prior approval of the agendas for all   meetings.

(b) The Trade Representative, or his designee, shall be responsible for determinations, filings, and other administrative requirements of  .

(c)(1) The Trade Representative shall provide funding and administrative and staff support for the  .

(2) The   shall have an Executive Director who shall be a   officer or employee designated by the Trade Representative.

(d) Members of the   shall serve without either compensation or reimbursement of expenses.

(e) The   shall meet as needed at the call of the Trade Representative or his designee, depending on various factors such as the level of activity of trade negotiations and the needs of  , or at the call of two-thirds of the members of the  .

 . 5.

General.

The   shall function for such period as may be necessary. In accordance with  , the   shall terminate after   from the date of this order unless otherwise extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:52 a.m.,  ]
