Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's   ("Council").

 . 2. Membership. The   shall comprise the:

(a) President, who shall serve as Chairman of the  ;

(b) Vice President;

(c) Secretary of  ;

(d) Secretary of the  ;

(e) Secretary of  ;

(f) Attorney General;

(g) Secretary of  ;

(h) Representative of   to  ;

(i) Director of  ;

(j) Chief of Staff to the President;

(k) Director of  ;

(l) Director of  ;

(m) Assistant to the President for  ;

(n) Counsel to the President;

(o) Chairman,  ; and

(p)   for the Vice President.

As applicable, the   shall also comprise the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and such other officials of the departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate.

 . 3. Meetings of the  . The President, or upon his direction, the Vice President, may convene meetings of the  . The President shall preside over meetings of the  , provided that in his absence, the Vice President will preside. The   will meet  .

 . 4. Functions. (a) The functions of the   are to advise and assist the President in: (1) providing direction and oversight for the national drug control strategy, including relating drug control policy to other national security interests and establishing priorities; and (2) ensuring coordination among departments and agencies concerning implementation of the President's national drug control strategy.

(b) The Director of   will continue to be the senior drug control policy official in the executive branch and the President's chief drug control policy spokesman.

(c) In matters affecting national security interests, the Director of   shall work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for  .

 . 5. Administration. (a) The   may utilize established or ad hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups chaired by the Director of   or his representative, in carrying out its functions under this order.

(b) The staff of  , in coordination with the staffs of the Vice President and the Assistant to the President for  , shall act as staff for the  .

(c) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such assistance, information, and advice as the   may request, to the extent permitted by law.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:06 a.m.,  ]
