Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the actions and policies of   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order: (a) the entry into or performance by a   person, or the approval by a   person of the entry into or performance by an entity owned or controlled by a   person, of (i) a contract that includes overall supervision and management responsibility for the development of petroleum resources located in  , or (ii) a guaranty of another person's performance under such a contract; (b) the entry into or performance by a   person, or the approval by a   person of the entry into or performance by an entity owned or controlled by a   person, of (i) a contract for the financing of the development of petroleum resources located in  , or (ii) a guaranty of another person's performance under such a contract; and (c) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 2. For the purposes of this order: (a) The term "person" means an individual or entity; (b) The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization; (c) The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and (d) The term " " means the land territory claimed by   and any other area over which   claims sovereignty, sovereign rights or jurisdiction, including the territorial sea, exclusive economic zone, and continental shelf claimed by  .

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 4. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 5. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m.,  , on  . (b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:50 p.m.,  ]
