Executive Order  —  in our   Central Cities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) and   of   (90 Stat.  ), and in furtherance of and consistent with Executive Order No. 12072 of  , and Executive Order No.   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Statement of Policy. Through the  's community empowerment initiatives,   has undertaken various efforts to revitalize our central cities, which have historically served as the centers for growth and commerce in our metropolitan areas. Accordingly, the   hereby reaffirms the commitment set forth in Executive Order No.   to strengthen our  's cities by encouraging the location of Federal facilities in our central cities. The   also reaffirms the commitments set forth in   to provide leadership in the preservation of historic resources, and in   of   to acquire and utilize space in suitable buildings of historic, architectural, or cultural significance.

To this end, the   shall utilize and maintain, wherever operationally appropriate and economically prudent, historic properties and districts, especially those located in our central business areas. When implementing these policies, the   shall institute practices and procedures that are sensible, understandable, and compatible with current authority and that impose the least burden on, and provide the maximum benefit to, society.

 . 2. Encouraging   in Our Central Cities. When operationally appropriate and economically prudent, and subject to the requirements of section 601 of title VI of the Rural Development Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), and Executive Order No.  , when locating  , Federal agencies shall give first consideration to historic properties within historic districts. If no such property is suitable, then Federal agencies shall consider other developed or undeveloped sites within historic districts. Federal agencies shall then consider historic properties outside of historic districts, if no suitable site within a district exists. Any rehabilitation or construction that is undertaken pursuant to this order must be architecturally compatible with the character of the surrounding historic district or properties.

 . 3. Identifying and  . Federal agencies with responsibilities for leasing, acquiring, locating, maintaining, or managing Federal facilities or with responsibilities for the planning for, or managing of, historic resources shall take steps to reform, streamline, and otherwise minimize regulations, policies, and procedures that impede   ability to establish or maintain a presence in historic districts or to acquire historic properties to satisfy Federal space needs, unless such regulations, policies, and procedures are designed to protect human health and safety or the environment. Federal agencies are encouraged to seek the assistance of   when taking these steps.

 . 4. Improving Preservation Partnerships. In carrying out the authorities of  , the Secretary of the  ,  , and each Federal agency shall seek appropriate partnerships with  , local governments,   tribes, and appropriate private organizations with the goal of enhancing participation of these parties in  . Such partnerships should embody the principles of administrative flexibility, reduced paperwork, and increased service to the public.

 . 5.  . This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
