Executive Order  —Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between Certain Railroads Represented by   by Certain Labor Organizations
 
 

Disputes exist between certain railroads represented by   and their employees represented by certain labor organizations. The railroads and labor organizations involved in these disputes are designated on the attached lists, which are made a part of this order.

These disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) (the "Act").

In the judgment of  , these disputes threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree that would deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service.

NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 10 of the Act (45 U.S.C. 160), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board ("Board"). There is established effective  , a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate the disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any railroad carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2. Report. The   shall report to the President with respect to the dispute within   of its creation.

 . 3.  . As provided by section 10 of the Act, from the date of the creation of the   and for   after the   has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement of the parties, shall be made by the railroads or the employees in the conditions out of which the disputes arose.

 . 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  ’s termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5. Expiration. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in sections 2 and 3 of this order.

 

 ,

 .

RAILROADS

Alameda Belt Line Railway Alton & Southern Railroad American Refrigerator Transit Company Arkansas Memphis Bridge Company  ,   and   and Aroostook Railroad Company Belt Railway Company of  

Allouez Taconite Facility

Brainerd Timber Treating Plant

Western Fruit Express Company

Camas Prairie Railroad Company Canadian National North America Central California Traction Company Chicago Heights Terminal Railroad Chicago Heights Terminal Transfer Railroad   and     South Shore and South Bend Railroad Consolidated Rail Corporation CSX Transportation, Inc.

The   and   (former)

The   and   (former)

  and   (former)

  (former)

  and Terminal Railway Joint Railroad Agency - National Stock Yards The Kansas City Southern Railway Company

CP-Kansas City Southern Joint Agency     and   Norfolk Southern Railway Company The Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company Atlantic & East Carolina Railway Company Central of Georgia Railroad Company The  ,   and     and    ,   and  Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District Peoria and     ,   and  

 -Kansas-Texas Railroad

 ,  

LABOR ORGANIZATIONS

Brotherhood of  ,  