Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of   Resolution 917 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the

de facto

regime in   and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order:

(a) The importation into   of any goods (other than informational materials, including books and other publications, needed for the free flow of information) originating in  , or of any services performed in  , that are exported from   after  ; or any activity by   persons or in   that promotes or is intended to promote such importation;

(b) Any activity by   persons or in   that promotes the exportation or transshipment of any goods (other than informational materials, such as books and other publications, needed for the free flow of information) originating in   that are exported from   after  ;

(c) Any dealing by   persons or in  , or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, in any goods (other than informational materials, such as books and other publications, needed for the free flow of information) originating in   that are exported from   after  ;

(d) The sale, supply, or exportation by   persons or from  , or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of any goods, regardless of origin, to  , or for the purpose of any business carried on in or operated from  , or any activity by   persons or in   that promotes such sale, supply, or exportation, other than the sale, supply, or exportation of:

(i) informational materials, such as books and other publications, needed for the free flow of information; or

(ii) medicines and medical supplies, as authorized by the Secretary of the  , and rice, beans, sugar, wheat flour, cooking oil, corn, corn flour, milk, and edible tallow, provided that neither the

de facto

regime in   nor any person designated by the Secretary of the   as a blocked individual or entity of   is a direct or indirect party to the transaction; or

(e) Any transaction by   persons that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 2. For the purposes of this order, the definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order No.   apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 4. Section 2(c) of Executive Order No.   and section 4 of Executive Order No.   are hereby revoked to the extent inconsistent with this order. The revocation shall apply only to actions taken after the effective date of this order, and shall not alter the applicability to any violation that occurred before the effective date of this order of any rule, regulation, order, license, or other form of administrative action taken pursuant to Executive Order No.   or Executive Order No.  .

 . 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6.

(a) This order shall take effect at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:41 a.m.,  ]
