Executive Order  —Federalism
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to guarantee the division of governmental responsibilities, embodied in the Constitution, between   and the   that was intended by the   and application of those principles by the   departments and agencies in the formulation and implementation of policies, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Definitions. For purposes of this order:

(a) "State" or "States" refer to the States of  , individually or collectively, and, where relevant, to   governments, including units of local government and other political subdivisions established by the  .

(b) "Policies that have federalism implications" refers to Federal regulations, proposed legislation, and other policy statements or actions that have substantial direct effects on the   or on the relationship, or the distribution of power and responsibilities, between   and the States.

(c) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

 . 2. Fundamental Federalism Principles. In formulating and implementing policies that have federalism implications, agencies shall be guided by the following fundamental federalism principles:

(a) The structure of government established by the Constitution is premised upon a system of checks and balances.

(b) The Constitution created a  , but limited, powers. The sovereign powers not granted to   are reserved to the people or to the States, unless prohibited to the states by the Constitution.

(c) Federalism reflects the principle that dividing power between   and the States serves to protect individual liberty.   authority provides an essential balance to the power of  , while preserving the supremacy of Federal law provides an essential balance to the power of the  .

(d) The people of the   are at liberty, subject only to the limitations in the Constitution itself or in Federal law, to define the moral, political, and legal character of their lives.

(e) Our constitutional system encourages a healthy diversity in the public policies adopted by the people of the several States according to their own conditions, needs, and desires. States and local governments are often uniquely situated to discern the sentiments of the people and to govern accordingly.

(f) Effective public policy is often achieved when there is competition among the several   in the fashioning of different approaches to public policy issues. The search for enlightened public policy is often furthered when individual States and local governments are free to experiment with a variety of approaches to public issues. Uniform, national approaches to public policy problems can inhibit the creation of effective solutions to those problems.

(g) Policies of   should recognize the responsibility of—and should encourage opportunities for—States, local governments, private associations, neighborhoods, families, and individuals to achieve personal, social, environmental, and economic objectives through cooperative effort.

 . 3. Federalism Policymaking Criteria. In addition to adhering to the fundamental federalism principles set forth in section 2 of this order, agencies shall adhere, to the extent permitted by law, to the following criteria when formulating and implementing policies that have federalism implications:

(a) There should be strict adherence to constitutional principles. Agencies should closely examine the constitutional and statutory authority supporting any   action that would limit the policymaking discretion of   and local governments, and should carefully assess the necessity for such action.

(b) Agencies may limit the policymaking discretion of   and local governments only after determining that there is constitutional and legal authority for the action.

(c) With respect to Federal statutes and regulations administered by   and local governments,   should grant States and local governments the maximum administrative discretion possible. Any Federal oversight of such   and local administration should not unnecessarily intrude on   and local discretion.

(d) It is important to recognize the distinction between matters of national or multi-state scope (which may justify   action) and matters that are merely common to the States (which may not justify   action because individual  , acting individually or together, may effectively deal with them). Matters of national or multi-state scope that justify   action may arise in a variety of circumstances, including:

(1) When the matter to be addressed by   action occurs interstate as opposed to being contained within one  's boundaries.

(2) When the source of the matter to be addressed occurs in a   different from the   (or  ) where a significant amount of the harm occurs.

(3) When there is a need for uniform national standards.

(4) When decentralization increases the costs of government thus imposing additional burdens on the taxpayer.

(5) When States have not adequately protected individual rights and liberties.

(6) When States would be reluctant to impose necessary regulations because of fears that regulated business activity will relocate to other  .

(7) When placing regulatory authority at the   or local level would undermine regulatory goals because high costs or demands for specialized expertise will effectively place the regulatory matter beyond the resources of   authorities.

(8) When the matter relates to   owned or managed property or natural resources, trust obligations, or international obligations.

(9) When the matter to be regulated significantly or uniquely affects   tribal governments.

 . 4. Consultation. (a) Each agency shall have an effective process to permit elected officials and other representatives of   and local governments to provide meaningful and timely input in the development of regulatory policies that have federalism implications.

(b) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, no agency shall promulgate any regulation that is not required by statute, that has federalism implications, and that imposes substantial direct compliance costs on   and local governments, unless:

(1) funds necessary to pay the direct costs incurred by the   or local government in complying with the regulation are provided by  ; or

(2) the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of the regulation,

(A) in a separately identified portion of the preamble to the regulation as it is to be issued in  , provides to the Director of   a description of the extent of the agency's prior consultation with representatives of affected   and local governments, a summary of the nature of their concerns, and the agency's position supporting the need to issue the regulation; and

(B) makes available to the Director of   any written communications submitted to the agency by   or local governments.

 . 5. Increasing Flexibility for State and  . (a) Agencies shall review the processes under which   and local governments apply for waivers of statutory and regulatory requirements and take appropriate steps to streamline those processes.

(b) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, consider any application by a   or local government for a waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements in connection with any program administered by that agency with a general view toward increasing opportunities for utilizing flexible policy approaches at the   or local level in cases in which the proposed waiver is consistent with applicable   policy objectives and is otherwise appropriate.

(c) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, render a decision upon a complete application for a waiver within   of receipt of such application by the agency. If the application for a waiver is not granted, the agency shall provide the applicant with timely written notice of the decision and the reasons therefor.

(d) This section applies only to statutory or regulatory requirements that are discretionary and subject to waiver by the agency.

 . 6.  . Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

 . 7.  . (a) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b) This order shall supplement but not supersede the requirements contained in Executive Order    "), Executive Order   ("Civil Justice Reform"), and OMB Circular A-19.

(c) Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order   of  , are revoked.

(d) The consultation and waiver provisions in sections 4 and 5 of this order shall complement the   order entitled, "Consultation and Coordination with    ," being issued on  .

(e) This order shall be effective   after the date of this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:24 a.m.,  ]
