Executive Order  —  for   in  
 
 

WHEREAS, the   and the   people have expressed deep concern about the appropriateness of unconditional most-favored-nation ( ) trading status for   ( );

WHEREAS, I share the concerns of the   and the   people regarding this important issue, particularly with respect to  ’s record on human rights, nuclear nonproliferation, and trade;

WHEREAS, I have carefully weighed the advisability of conditioning  ’s   status as a means of achieving progress in these areas;

WHEREAS, I have concluded that the public interest would be served by a continuation of the waiver of the application of sections 402 (a) and

(b) of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C. 2432(a) and 2432(b)) (Act) on  ’s   status for   with renewal thereafter subject to the conditions below;

NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall make a recommendation to the President to extend or not to extend   status to   for the   period beginning  .

(a) In making this recommendation the Secretary shall not recommend

extension unless he determines that: —extension will substantially promote the freedom of emigration objectives of section 402 of the Act; and

—  is complying with the   bilateral agreement between   and   concerning prison labor.

(b) In making this recommendation the Secretary shall also determine whether   has made overall, significant progress with respect to the following:

—taking steps to begin adhering to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

—releasing and providing an acceptable accounting for   citizens imprisoned or detained for the non-violent expression of their political and religious beliefs, including such expression of beliefs in connection with   Tiananmen Square movements;

—ensuring humane treatment of prisoners, such as by allowing access to prisons by international humanitarian and human rights organizations;

—protecting  ’s distinctive religious and cultural heritage; and

—permitting international radio and television broadcasts into  . Sec. 2. The Secretary shall submit his recommendation to the President before  .

 . 3. The Secretary, and other appropriate officials of  , shall pursue resolutely all legislative and executive actions to ensure that   abides by its commitments to follow fair, nondiscriminatory trade practices in dealing with   businesses, and adheres to  ,   guidelines and parameters, and other nonproliferation commitments.

 . 4. This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any person or entity against  , its officers, or employees.

 

 ,

 .
