Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to establish a  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   ("Commission"). The   shall comprise 30 members to be appointed by the President. Ten members shall be Senators, five each from the   and   parties. Ten members shall be Members of  , five each from the   and   parties. Ten members shall be individuals from either the public or private sector who have experience and expertise in the areas to be considered by the  .

(b)

The President shall designate a   and Vice-Chairperson from among the members of the  .  . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall recommend potential longterm budget savings measures involving (1) revisions to statutory entitlement and other mandatory programs; and (2) alternative tax reform proposals. The   shall report its recommendations respecting potential entitlement and other mandatory program savings and tax system revisions to   and to the   leadership by  .

(b)

The   shall decide by a three-fifths vote which recommendations to include in the report. At the request of any   member, the report will include that   member’s dissenting views or opinions.

(c)

The   may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions, hold such hearings and sit and act at such times and places, as the   may find advisable.  . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b)

Upon request of  , the head of any Federal agency or instrumentality shall, to the extent possible and subject to the discretion of such head, (1) make any of the facilities and services of such agency or instrumentality available to the  ; and (2) detail any of the personnel of such agency or instrumentality to the  , to assist the   in carrying out its duties.

(c)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(d)

To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the  ’s

functions. The Secretary of   shall perform the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) ("Act"), except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(e) The   shall adhere to the requirements set forth in the Act. All executive branch officials assigned duties by the Act shall comply with its requirements with respect to the  .

 . 4. General Provision. The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.

 

 ,

 .
