Executive Order  —  and Prohibiting Transactions With  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code;

I,  , President of  , find that the policies and actions of  , including continued support for international terrorism; ongoing efforts to destabilize neighboring governments; and the prevalence of human rights violations, including slavery and the denial of religious freedom, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked.

 . 2. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order:

(a) the importation into   of any goods or services of   origin, other than information or informational materials;

(b) the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, to   of any goods, technology (including technical data, software, or other information), or services from   or by a   person, wherever located, or requiring the issuance of a license by a Federal agency, except for donations of articles intended to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, and medicine;

(c) the facilitation by a   person, including but not limited to brokering activities, of the exportation or reexportation of goods, technology, or services from   to any destination, or to   from any location;

(d) the performance by any   person of any contract, including a financing contract, in support of an industrial, commercial, public utility, or governmental project in  ;

(e) the grant or extension of credits or loans by any   person to  ;

(f) any transaction by a   person relating to transportation of cargo to or from  ; the provision of transportation of cargo to or from   by any   person or any vessel or aircraft of   registration; or the sale in   by any person holding authority under subtitle 7 of title  , United States Code, of any transportation of cargo by air that includes any stop in  ; and

(g) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. Nothing in this order shall prohibit:

(a) transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or   by employees thereof; or

(b) transactions in   for journalistic activity by persons regularly employed in such capacity by a news-gathering organization.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Sudan" includes  , its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and, as appropriate, other agencies, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  , except that trade transactions under contracts in force as of the effective date of this order may be performed pursuant to their terms through 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  , and letters of credit and other financing agreements for such underlying trade transactions may be performed pursuant to their terms.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:22 a.m.,  ]
