Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established   ("the  ").

 . 2. Membership. The   shall comprise the:

(a)

President, who shall serve as Chairman of the  ;

(b)

Vice President;

(c)

Secretary of  ;

(d)

Secretary of  ;

(e)

Secretary of  ;

(f)

Secretary of  ;

(g)

Secretary of  ;

(h)

Secretary of the  ;

(i)

Administrator,  ;

(j)

Director,  ;

(k)

Director of  ;

(l)

Administrator,  ;

(m)

Assistant to the President for  ;

(n)

National Security Adviser;

(o)

Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(p)

Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; and

(q) Such other officials of executive departments and agencies as the President may, from time to time, designate.  . 3. Meetings of the  . The President or, upon his direction, the Assistant to the President for   ("the Assistant"), may convene meetings of the  . The President shall preside over the meetings of the  , provided that in his absence the Vice President, and in his absence the Assistant, will preside.

 . 4. Functions. (a) The principal functions of the   are, to the extent permitted by law: (1) to coordinate the science and technology policymaking process; (2) to ensure science and technology policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President’s stated goals; (3) to help integrate the President’s science and technology policy agenda across  ; (4) to ensure science and technology are considered in development and implementation of Federal policies and programs; and (5) to further international cooperation in science and technology. The Assistant may take such actions, including drafting a Charter, as may be necessary or appropriate to implement such functions.

(b) All executive departments and agencies, whether or not represented on the  , shall coordinate science and technology policy through

the   and shall share information on research and development budget requests with the  .

(c)

The   shall develop for submission to the Director of   recommendations on research and development budgets that reflect national goals. In addition, the   shall provide advice to the Director of   concerning the agencies’ research and development budget submissions.

(d)

The Assistant will, when appropriate, work in conjunction with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Director of  , and  .

 . 5. Administration. (a) The   will oversee the duties of  , and Technology,  , and  .

(b)

The   may function through established or ad hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups.

(c)

To the extent practicable and permitted by law, executive departments and agencies shall make resources, including, but not limited to, personnel, office support, and printing, available to the   as requested by the Assistant.

(d)

All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the   as the   may request, to the extent permitted by law.

 

 ,

 .
