Executive Order  —Consultation and Coordination With   Tribal Governments
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to establish regular and meaningful consultation and collaboration with tribal officials in the development of Federal policies that have tribal implications, to strengthen   government-to-government relationships with   tribes, and to reduce the imposition of unfunded mandates upon   tribes; it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "Policies that have tribal implications" refers to regulations, legislative comments or proposed legislation, and other policy statements or actions that have substantial direct effects on one or more   tribes, on the relationship between   and   tribes, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities between   and   tribes.

(b) "  tribe" means an   or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe pursuant to   of  , 25 U.S.C. 479a.

(c) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

(d) "Tribal officials" means elected or duly appointed officials of   tribal governments or authorized intertribal organizations.

 . 2.

Fundamental Principles.

In formulating or implementing policies that have tribal implications, agencies shall be guided by the following fundamental principles:

(a)   has a unique legal relationship with   tribal governments as set forth in the Constitution of  , treaties, statutes,  , and court decisions. Since the formation of the Union,   has recognized   tribes as domestic dependent nations under its protection.   has enacted numerous statutes and promulgated numerous regulations that establish and define a trust relationship with   tribes.

(b) Our Nation, under the law of  , in accordance with treaties, statutes,  , and judicial decisions, has recognized the right of   tribes to self-government. As domestic dependent nations,   tribes exercise inherent sovereign powers over their members and territory.   continues to work with   tribes on a governmentto-government basis to address issues concerning   tribal self-government, tribal trust resources, and   tribal treaty and other rights.

(c)   recognizes the right of   tribes to self-government and supports tribal sovereignty and self-determination.

 . 3.

Policymaking Criteria.

In addition to adhering to the fundamental principles set forth in section 2, agencies shall adhere, to the extent permitted by law, to the following criteria when formulating and implementing policies that have tribal implications:

(a) Agencies shall respect   tribal self-government and sovereignty, honor tribal treaty and other rights, and strive to meet the responsibilities that arise from the unique legal relationship between   and   tribal governments.

(b) With respect to Federal statutes and regulations administered by   tribal governments, the   shall grant   tribal governments the maximum administrative discretion possible.

(c) When undertaking to formulate and implement policies that have tribal implications, agencies shall:

(1) encourage   tribes to develop their own policies to achieve program objectives;

(2) where possible, defer to   tribes to establish standards; and

(3) in determining whether to establish Federal standards, consult with tribal officials as to the need for Federal standards and any alternatives that would limit the scope of Federal standards or otherwise preserve the prerogatives and authority of   tribes.

 . 4.

Special Requirements for  

tive  .

Agencies shall not submit to the   legislation that would be inconsistent with the policymaking criteria in Section 3.

 . 5.

Consultation.

(a) Each agency shall have an accountable process to ensure meaningful and timely input by tribal officials in the development of regulatory policies that have tribal implications. Within   after the effective date of this order, the head of each agency shall designate an official with principal responsibility for the agency's implementation of this order. Within   of the effective date of this order, the designated official shall submit to   (OMB) a description of the agency's consultation process.

(b) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, no agency shall promulgate any regulation that has tribal implications, that imposes substantial direct compliance costs on   tribal governments, and that is not required by statute, unless:

(1) funds necessary to pay the direct costs incurred by the   tribal government or the tribe in complying with the regulation are provided by  ; or

(2) the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of the regulation,

(A) consulted with tribal officials early in the process of developing the proposed regulation;

(B) in a separately identified portion of the preamble to the regulation as it is to be issued in  , provides to the Director of OMB a tribal summary impact statement, which consists of a description of the extent of the agency's prior consultation with tribal officials, a summary of the nature of their concerns and the agency's position supporting the need to issue the regulation, and a statement of the extent to which the concerns of tribal officials have been met; and

(C) makes available to the Director of OMB any written communications submitted to the agency by tribal officials.

(c) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, no agency shall promulgate any regulation that has tribal implications and that preempts tribal law unless the agency, prior to the formal promulgation of the regulation,

(1) consulted with tribal officials early in the process of developing the proposed regulation;

(2) in a separately identified portion of the preamble to the regulation as it is to be issued in  , provides to the Director of OMB a tribal summary impact statement, which consists of a description of the extent of the agency's prior consultation with tribal officials, a summary of the nature of their concerns and the agency's position supporting the need to issue the regulation, and a statement of the extent to which the concerns of tribal officials have been met; and

(3) makes available to the Director of OMB any written communications submitted to the agency by tribal officials.

(d) On issues relating to tribal self-government, tribal trust resources, or   tribal treaty and other rights, each agency should explore and, where appropriate, use consensual mechanisms for developing regulations, including negotiated rulemaking.

 . 6.

Increasing Flexibility for    .

(a) Agencies shall review the processes under which   tribes apply for waivers of statutory and regulatory requirements and take appropriate steps to streamline those processes.

(b) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, consider any application by an   tribe for a waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements in connection with any program administered by the agency with a general view toward increasing opportunities for utilizing flexible policy approaches at the   tribal level in cases in which the proposed waiver is consistent with the applicable Federal policy objectives and is otherwise appropriate.

(c) Each agency shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, render a decision upon a complete application for a waiver within   of receipt of such application by the agency, or as otherwise provided by law or regulation. If the application for waiver is not granted, the agency shall provide the applicant with timely written notice of the decision and the reasons therefor.

(d) This section applies only to statutory or regulatory requirements that are discretionary and subject to waiver by the agency.

 . 7.

Accountability.

(a) In transmitting any draft final regulation that has tribal implications to OMB pursuant to Executive Order  , each agency shall include a certification from the official designated to ensure compliance with this order stating that the requirements of this order have been met in a meaningful and timely manner.

(b) In transmitting proposed legislation that has tribal implications to OMB, each agency shall include a certification from the official designated to ensure compliance with this order that all relevant requirements of this order have been met.

(c) Within   after the effective date of this order the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for   shall confer with tribal officials to ensure that this order is being properly and effectively implemented.

 . 8.

 .

Independent regulatory agencies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

 . 9.

General Provisions.

(a) This order shall supplement but not supersede the requirements contained in Executive Order   ( ), Executive Order   (Civil Justice Reform), OMB  , and   of  , on Government-to-Government Relations with   Tribal Governments.

(b) This order shall complement the consultation and waiver provisions in sections 6 and 7 of Executive Order   (Federalism).

(c) Executive Order   (  with   Tribal Governments) is revoked at the time this order takes effect.

(d) This order shall be effective   after the date of this order.

 . 10.

 .

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch, and is not intended to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
