Executive Order  —Order of Succession of Officers To Act as Secretary of the  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 3347 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Succession to the Authority of the Secretary of the  . (a) In the event of the death, permanent disability, or resignation of the Secretary of the  , the incumbents holding the positions designated below, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the  :

(1) The Under Secretary of the  .

(2)

The Assistant Secretaries and   of the  , in the order fixed by their length of services as permanent appointees in such positions.

(3)

The Chief of Naval Operations.

(4)

The Commandant of the Marine Corps.

(b)

In the event of the temporary absence or temporary disability of the Secretary of the  , the incumbents holding   positions designated in paragraph (a) of this section, in the order indicated, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the  .

(1)

In these instances, the designation of an Acting Secretary of the   applies only for the duration of the Secretary’s absence or disability, and does not affect the authority of the Secretary to resume the powers of his office upon his return.

(2)

In the event that the Secretary of the   is merely absent from this position, the Secretary of the   may continue to exercise the powers and fulfill the duties of his office during his absence, notwithstanding the provisions of this order.

(c)

Precedence among those officers designated in paragraph (a) of this section who have the same date of appointment shall be determined by the Secretary of the   at the time that such appointments are made.

(d)

Notwithstanding paragraph (a) and (b) of this section, an officer shall not act for or exercise the powers of the Secretary of the   under this order if that officer serves only in an acting capacity in the position that would otherwise entitle him to do so.

 . 2. Temporary Nature of Succession. Succession to act for and exercise the powers of the Secretary of the   pursuant to this order shall be

on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory appointment held by the successor.

 

 ,

 .
