Executive Order  —Administration of the Midway Islands
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 48 of  , Public Law 86-624, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  ,   group, and their territorial seas, located approximately between the parallels of 28 degrees 5 minutes and 28 degrees 25 minutes North latitude and between the meridians of 177 degrees 10 minutes and 177 degrees 30 minutes  , were placed under the jurisdiction and control of   by the provisions of Executive Order 199-A of  , and Part II of Executive Order   of September 4,  , and are hereby transferred to the jurisdiction and control of  . The provisions of Executive Order 199-A of  , and the provisions of Executive Order   of September 4,  , that pertain to   are hereby superseded.

 . 2.   and   Airspace Reservation are hereby dissolved. The provisions of Executive Order 8682 of  , as amended by Executive   of  , are hereby superseded.

 . 3. (a) The Secretary of the  , through   Fish and  , shall administer   as   in a manner consistent with Executive Order   of  , for the following purposes:

(1) maintaining and restoring natural biological diversity within the refuge;

(2) providing for the conservation and management of fish and wildlife and their habitats within the refuge;

(3) fulfilling the international treaty obligations of   with respect to fish and wildlife;

(4) providing opportunities for scientific research, environmental education, and compatible wildlife dependent recreational activities; and

(5) in a manner compatible with refuge purposes, shall recognize and maintain the historic significance of the   Islands consistent with the policy stated in Executive Order   of  .

(b) The Secretary of the   shall be responsible for the civil administration of   and all executive and legislative authority necessary for that administration, and all judicial authority respecting the Midway Islands other than the authority contained in 48 U.S.C. 644a.

 . 4. Any civil or criminal proceeding that is pending under the Midway Islands Code, 32   Part 762, upon the date of this order, shall remain under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the  . Actions arising after the date of this order are the responsibility of the Secretary of the   and shall be administered pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the  .

 . 5. To the extent that any prior Executive order or proclamation is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, this order shall control.

 . 6. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to reduce, limit, or otherwise modify the authority or responsibility of the Attorney General of   to represent the legal interests of   in civil or criminal cases arising under the provisions of 48 U.S.C. 644a.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:04 a.m.,  ]
