Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution No. 864 of  ,

I,  , President of  , take note of   determination that, as a result of  ’s military actions, the situation in   constitutes a threat to international peace and security, and find that the actions and policies of  , in continuing military actions, repeated attempts to seize additional territory and failure to withdraw its troops from locations that it has occupied since the resumption of hostilities, in repeatedly attacking   personnel working to provide humanitarian assistance, in holding foreign nationals against their will, in refusing to accept the results of the democratic elections held in   in  , and in failing to abide by  ," constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:

(a)

The sale or supply by   persons or from  , or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment and spare parts for the aforementioned, as well as petroleum and petroleum products, regardless of origin:

(1)

to  ;

(2)

to the territory of  , other than through points of entry to be designated by the Secretary of the  , or any activity by   persons or in   which promotes or is calculated to promote such sale or supply.

(b)

Any transaction by any   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 2. For purposes of this order:

(a)

The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or person in  ;

(b)

The term " " includes:

(1)

the Uniao Nacional para a   ( ), known in English as  ;"

(2)

the   Armadas para a   (FALA), known in English as  ;" and

(3)

any person acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of

the foregoing, including  , Inc.  . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and   as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  .

 . 4. Nothing contained in the order shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under   (22 U.S.C.   et seq.) and the Export Administration Act (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.) to obtain licenses for the exportation from   or from a third country of any goods, data, or services subject to the export jurisdiction of   or  .

 . 5. All Federal agencies are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order shall take effect immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
