Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 203 of   ( ) ("the IEEPA"),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.) ("the Act"), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In view of the extension of the Act by Public Law 103–10 ( ), Executive Order No.   of  , which continued the effect of export control regulations under the  , is revoked, and the declaration of economic emergency is rescinded, as provided in this order.

 . 2. The revocation of Executive Order No.   shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action under that   that occurred during the period the order was in effect. All rules and regulations issued or continued in effect under the authority of the   and Executive Order No.  , including those codified at 15   768–799 ( ), and all orders, regulations, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant thereto, shall remain in full force and effect, as if issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant to and as authorized by the Act or by other appropriate authority until amended or revoked by the proper authority. Nothing in this order shall affect the continued applicability of the provision for the administration of the Act and delegations of authority set forth in Executive Order No.   of July 7,  , Executive Order No.   of  , and Executive Order No. 12735 of  .

 . 3. All rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect pursuant to the authority of the   and Executive Order No.   relating to the administration of Section 38(e) of   (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) shall remain in full force and effect until amended or revoked under proper authority.

 . 4. This order shall take effect immediately.

 

 ,

 .
