Executive Order  —  on   in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established     in   (the "Commission"). The   shall be composed of not more than 20 members to be appointed by the President. The members will be consumers, institutional health care providers, health care professionals, other health care workers, health care insurers, health care purchasers,   and local government representatives, and experts in health care quality, financing, and administration.

(b) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as  .   shall report through the Vice President to the President.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President on changes occurring in the health care system and recommend such measures as may be necessary to promote and assure health care quality and value, and protect consumers and workers in the health care system. In particular, the   shall:

(1) Review the available data in the area of consumer information and protections for those enrolled in health care plans and make such recommendations as may be necessary for improvements;

(2) Review existing and planned work that defines, measures, and promotes quality of health care, and help build further consensus on approaches to assure and promote quality of care in a changing delivery system; and

(3) Collect and evaluate data on changes in availability of treatment and services, and make such recommendations as may be necessary for improvements.

(b) For the purpose of carrying out its functions, the   may hold hearings, establish subcommittees, and convene and act at such times and places as the   may find advisable.

 . 3. Reports. The   shall make a preliminary report to the President by  . A final report shall be submitted to the President   after the  's first meeting.

 . 4. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies, and independent agencies (collectively "agencies") shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   may receive compensation for their work on the   not to exceed the   rate specified for Level IV of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C.  ). While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the  's functions. The Secretary of   shall perform the administrative functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), with respect to the  .

 . 5. General Provision. The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report, but not   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:28 a.m.,  ]
