1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Access to Increased Drug Disposal Act of 2018
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
Attorney General
means the Attorney General, acting through the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs;
(2)
the term
authorized collector
means a narcotic treatment program, a hospital or clinic with an on-site pharmacy, a retail pharmacy, or a reverse distributor, that is authorized as a collector under section 1317.40 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation);
(3)
the term
covered grant
means a grant awarded under section 3; and
(4)
the term
eligible collector
means a person who is eligible to be an authorized collector.
3.
Authority to make grants
The Attorney General shall award grants to States to enable the States to increase the participation of eligible collectors as authorized collectors.
4.
Application
A State desiring a covered grant shall submit to the Attorney General an application that, at a minimum—
(1)
identifies the single State agency that oversees pharmaceutical care and will be responsible for complying with the requirements of the grant;
(2)
details a plan to increase participation rates of eligible collectors as authorized collectors; and
(3)
describes how the State will select eligible collectors to be served under the grant.
5.
Use of grant funds
A State that receives a covered grant, and any subrecipient of the grant, may use the grant amounts only for the costs of installation, maintenance, training, purchasing, and disposal of controlled substances associated with the participation of eligible collectors as authorized collectors.
6.
Eligibility for grant
The Attorney General shall award a covered grant to 5 States, not less than three of which shall be States in the lowest quartile of States based on the participation rate of eligible collectors as authorized collectors, as determined by the Attorney General.
7.
Duration of grants
The Attorney General shall determine the period of years for which a covered grant is made to a State.
8.
Accountability and oversight
A State that receives a covered grant shall submit to the Attorney General a report, at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General may reasonably require, that—
(1)
lists the ultimate recipients of the grant amounts;
(2)
describes the activities undertaken by the State using the grant amounts; and
(3)
contains performance measures relating to the effectiveness of the grant, including changes in the participation rate of eligible collectors as authorized collectors.
9.
Duration of program
The Attorney General may award covered grants for each of the first 5 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.
10.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
