1.
Report on multi-agency use of airspace and environmental review
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report documenting efforts made toward improving processes to resolve challenges for special use airspace requests in support of, or associated with, short notice testing requirements at Major Range and Test Facility Bases, including the establishment of temporary military operations areas used for conducting short term, scheduled exercises.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
Analysis of previous efforts to streamline internal processes associated with the designation of temporary military operations areas at Major Range and Test Facility Bases and the use of such areas for scheduled exercises.
(2)
Analysis of progress made to ensure consistency of environmental review, including impact analysis, associated environmental studies, or consultation, while complying with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) and other environmental requirements.
(3)
Identification of challenges, if any, to complying with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
(4)
A description of airspace requirements, current test and training needs statements completed during the 10-year period preceding the report, and future 5-year requirements, including all temporary military operating areas, special use airspaces, instrument routes, visual routes, and unfulfilled user requirements.
(5)
Proposed options and solutions to overcome identified challenges, if any, including identifying whether—
(A)
a solution or solutions can be incorporated within the existing Federal Aviation Administration and Department of Defense Memorandum of Understanding; or
(B)
changes to current law are required.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Major range and test facility base
The term
Major Range and Test Facility Base
has the meaning given the term in section 196(i) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Special use airspace
The term
special use airspace
means certain designations of airspace designated by the Federal Aviation Administration, as administered by the Secretary of Defense.
