1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017
.
2.
Authorization of the national computer forensics institute of the department of homeland security
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 381
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
822.
National computer forensics institute
(a)
In general
There is in the Department a National Computer Forensics Institute (in this section referred to as the
Institute
), to be operated by the United States Secret Service. The Institute shall disseminate homeland security information related to the investigation and prevention of cyber and electronic crime and related threats, and educate, train, and equip State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges.
(b)
Functions
The functions of the Institute shall include the following:
(1)
Educating State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges on current—
(A)
cyber and electronic crimes and related threats;
(B)
methods for investigating cyber and electronic crime and related threats and conducting computer and mobile device forensic examinations; and
(C)
prosecutorial and judicial challenges related to cyber and electronic crime and related threats, and computer and mobile device forensic examinations.
(2)
Training State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers to—
(A)
conduct cyber and electronic crime and related threat investigations;
(B)
conduct computer and mobile device forensic examinations; and
(C)
respond to network intrusion incidents.
(3)
Training State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges on methods to obtain, process, store, and admit digital evidence in court.
(c)
Principles
In carrying out the functions specified in subsection (b), the Institute shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that timely, actionable, and relevant expertise and homeland security information related to cyber and electronic crime and related threats is shared with State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers and prosecutors.
(d)
Equipment
The Institute may provide State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers with computer equipment, hardware, software, manuals, and tools necessary to conduct cyber and electronic crime and related threat investigations and computer and mobile device forensic examinations.
(e)
Electronic crime task forces
The Institute shall facilitate the expansion of the network of Electronic Crime Task Forces of the United States Secret Service through the addition of State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers educated and trained at the Institute.
(f)
Savings provision
All activities and functions carried out by the Institute at any location as of the day before the date of the enactment of this section are authorized to continue to be carried out at any such location on and after such date.
.
(b)
No additional funding
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act. This Act and such amendments shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 101
et seq.) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 821 the following new item:
Sec. 822. National Computer Forensics Institute.
.
