1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Timely Mental Health for Foster Youth Act
.
2.
Timely mental health screenings and assessments for children and youth upon
entry into foster care
(a)
State plan requirement
Section 422(b)(15)(A) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 622(b)(15)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by inserting
and that require that an initial mental health screening of any child in foster care be completed not later than 30 days after the date the child enters into foster care and, in the case of any child in foster care for whom a mental health issue is identified in such initial screening, that a comprehensive assessment of the mental health of the child be completed not later than 60 days after the date the child enters into foster care
before the semicolon; and
(2)
in clause (ii), by striking
screenings
and inserting
such screenings and assessments
.
(b)
Technical amendment
Section 422(b)(15)(A) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 622(b)(15)(A)
) is further amended in the matter before clause (i), by striking
provides
and inserting
provide
.
(c)
Effective date
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall take effect on January 1, 2018.
(2)
Delay permitted if state legislation required
In the case of a State plan approved under part B of title IV of the Social Security Act which the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires State legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) in order for the plan to meet the additional requirements imposed by this section, the State plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of such part solely on the basis of the failure of the plan to meet such additional requirements before the first day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first regular session of the State legislature that begins after the date of enactment of this section. For purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year of such session shall be deemed to be a separate regular session of the State legislature.
