1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cuban Airport Security Act of 2017
.
2.
Flights between the United States and Cuba
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Comptroller General of the United States on the following aspects of security measures at each of Cuba’s ten international airports:
(1)
Details about the type of equipment used at screening checkpoints and an analysis of such equipment’s capabilities and weaknesses.
(2)
Information about each such airport’s canine program, if used.
(3)
The frequency of training for screening and security personnel.
(4)
Access controls in place to ensure only credentialed personnel have access to the secure and sterile areas of such airports.
(5)
An assessment of the ability of known or suspected terrorists to use Cuba as a gateway to entering the United States.
(6)
Security of such airports’ perimeters.
(7)
A mitigation assessment regarding Man Portable Air Defense Systems.
(8)
The vetting practices and procedures for airport employees.
(9)
Any other information determined relevant to the security practices, procedures, and equipment in place at such airports.
(b)
Public disclosure of certain agreements
(1)
Disclosure required
No United States air carrier that has entered into a covered agreement may employ a Cuban national pursuant to section 515.573 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, after the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act unless the air carrier has publicly disclosed the full text of the covered agreement.
(2)
Hiring and training requirements
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, to the extent practicable, Cuban nationals referred to in paragraph (1) shall not have been recruited, hired, or trained by entities that are owned, operated, or controlled, in whole or in part, by Cuba’s Council of State, Council of Ministers, Communist Party, Ministry of the Revolutionary Armed Forces, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or Ministry of the Interior.
(3)
Covered agreement
In this subsection, the term
covered agreement
means a formal agreement between a United States air carrier with passenger air service between any location in Cuba and any location in the United States and the Empresa Cubana de Aeropuertos y Servicios Aeronauticos or any other entity associated with the Government of Cuba.
3.
Federal Air Marshal Service agreements
(a)
Standardization
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of the Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall develop a standard working document to serve as the basis for all negotiations and agreements that begin after such date between the United States and foreign governments or partners regarding Federal Air Marshal coverage of flights to and from the United States.
(b)
Written agreements
All agreements between the United States and foreign governments or partners regarding the presence of Federal Air Marshals on flights to and from the United States pursuant to subsection (a) shall be written and signed by the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary’s designee.
(c)
Congressional notification
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate any agreement entered into under this section within 30 days of such agreement being signed.
4.
International Civil Aviation Organization
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States Ambassador or the Chargé d’Affaires to the United States Mission to the International Civil Aviation Organization shall pursue improvements to airport security, including if practicable, introducing a resolution to raise minimum standards for airport security.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States Ambassador or the Chargé d’Affaires to the United States Mission to the International Civil Aviation Organization shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the implementation of subsection (a).
