1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Office of Rural Broadband Act
.
2.
Office of Rural Broadband
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Broadband
The term
broadband
has the meaning given the term
advanced telecommunications capability
in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (
47 U.S.C. 1302
).
(3)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(4)
Office
The term
Office
means the Office of Rural Broadband established under subsection (b).
(5)
Rural
The term
rural
has the meaning given the term in section 54.505(b)(3) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(b)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall establish an Office of Rural Broadband.
(c)
Duties
The Office shall have the following duties:
(1)
Coordinate efforts with the Rural Utilities Service of the Department of Agriculture and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to ensure the mutual and complementary success of—
(A)
the initiatives of the Commission; and
(B)
the programs overseen by the other agencies described in this paragraph.
(2)
Coordinate with the Universal Service Administrative Company to maintain updated information regarding programs that deploy rural broadband.
(3)
Coordinate with other agencies to remove barriers to broadband deployment.
(4)
Assess, and publish the assessment of, the impact of proposed actions of the Commission on rural consumers before the actions are voted upon or taken.
(5)
Track broadband internet subscription rates in rural areas, using data collected by the Bureau of the Census under section 103(d) of the Broadband Data Improvement Act (
47 U.S.C. 1303(d)
).
(6)
Coordinate with other bureaus and offices of the Commission and other agencies to ensure consistency and updating of broadband mapping in rural areas.
(7)
Include in the Communications Marketplace Report required under section 13 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 163
) a report on the efforts of the Office to promote and sustain quality and affordable rural communications services, including voice service and broadband service.
(8)
Dedicate a representative to address stakeholder questions and concerns.
(d)
No additional reporting requirements
Nothing in this section shall create any additional reporting requirement for a broadband provider.
