1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Gary Deloney and John Olsen Toxic Exposure Declassification Act
.
2.
Declassification by Department of Defense of certain incidents of exposure of members of the Armed
Forces to toxic substances
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall declassify documents related to any known incident in which not fewer than 100 members of the Armed Forces were exposed to a toxic substance that resulted in at least one case of a disability that a member of the medical profession has determined to be associated with that toxic substance.
(b)
Limitation
The declassification required by subsection (a) shall be limited to information necessary for an individual who was potentially exposed to a toxic substance to determine the following:
(1)
Whether that individual was exposed to that toxic substance.
(2)
The potential severity of the exposure of that individual to that toxic substance.
(3)
Any potential health conditions that may have resulted from exposure to that toxic substance.
(c)
Exception
The Secretary of Defense is not required to declassify documents if the Secretary determines that declassification of those documents would materially and immediately threaten the security of the United States.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Armed Forces
The term
Armed Forces
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Exposed
The term
exposed
means, with respect to a toxic substance, that an individual came into contact with that toxic substance in a manner that could be hazardous to the health of that individual, that may include if that toxic substance was inhaled, ingested, or touched the skin or eyes.
(3)
Exposure
The term
exposure
means, with respect to a toxic substance, an event during which an individual was exposed to that toxic substance.
(4)
Toxic substance
The term
toxic substance
means any substance determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to be harmful to the environment or hazardous to the health of an individual if inhaled or ingested by or absorbed through the skin of that individual.
