1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Cemetery
The term
Cemetery
means the Black Hills National Cemetery in Sturgis, South Dakota.
(2)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management land adjacent to the Cemetery, generally depicted as
Proposed National Cemetery Expansion
on the map entitled
Proposed Expansion of Black Hills National Cemetery-South Dakota
and dated June 16, 2016.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Transfer and withdrawal of Bureau of Land Management land for Cemetery use
(a)
Transfer of administrative jurisdiction
(1)
In general
Subject to valid existing rights, administrative jurisdiction over the Federal land is transferred from the Secretary to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for use as a national cemetery in accordance with
chapter 24
of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
Legal descriptions
(A)
In general
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a notice containing a legal description of the Federal land.
(B)
Effect
A legal description published under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any clerical and typographical errors in the legal description.
(C)
Availability
Copies of the legal description published under subparagraph (A) shall be available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of—
(i)
the Bureau of Land Management; and
(ii)
the National Cemetery Administration.
(D)
Costs
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall reimburse the Secretary for the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out this paragraph, including the costs of any surveys and other reasonable costs.
(b)
Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, for any period during which the Federal land is under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Federal land—
(1)
is withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws, the mineral leasing laws, and the geothermal leasing laws; and
(2)
shall be treated as property as defined under section 102(9) of title 40, United States Code.
(c)
Boundary modification
The boundary of the Cemetery is modified to include the Federal land.
(d)
Modification of public land order
Public Land Order 2112, dated June 6, 1960 (25 Fed. Reg. 5243), is modified to exclude the Federal land.
