1.
Report on hearing loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution due to small arms fire
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that hearing loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution due to small arms fire has a detrimental impact on the readiness and budget of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives upon the request of either committee) and the President pro tempore of the Senate, a report on hearing loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution due to small arms fire.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A verification and validation of the results included in published findings on hearing loss and tinnitus due to small arms fire (including the
Clinical Study Design of Noise-Induced Hearing Loss in Marine Recruits
published by E.A. Williams (née Edelstein)).
(B)
A description of the impact on the Department of Defense of noise pollution and noise ordinance requirements, as set forth under title IV of the Clean Air Act (relating to noise pollution) (
42 U.S.C. 7641
et seq.), for small arms fire (including the impact on training ranges, training schedules, operational readiness, and mission parameters).
(C)
Data on the severity and rates of noise-induced hearing loss and tinnitus experienced by personnel of the Department due to small arms fire in training and operational environments, including costs currently incurred by the health care systems of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to treat noise-induced hearing loss and tinnitus.
(D)
A description of alternative methods and strategies currently being employed by the Department of Defense, as well as alternative methods, technologies, and techniques being considered, for the mitigation of hearing loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution due to small arms fire.
(E)
A description of current mitigation strategies available to reduce hearing loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution as a whole and not as separate issues.
