1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act
.
2.
Pre-election hearings; list of employees eligible to vote in elections
Section 9(c)(1) of the National Labor Relations Act (
29 U.S.C. 159(c)(1)
) is amended in the matter following subparagraph (B)—
(1)
by inserting
, but in no circumstances less than 14 calendar days after the filing of the petition
after
upon due notice
;
(2)
by inserting after
with respect thereto.
the following: ‘‘An appropriate hearing shall be one that is non-adversarial with the hearing officer charged, in collaboration with the parties, with the responsibility of identifying any relevant and material pre-election issues and thereafter making a full record thereon. Relevant and material pre-election issues shall include, in addition to unit appropriateness, the Board’s jurisdiction and any other issue the resolution of which may reasonably be expected to impact the outcome of the election. Parties may independently raise any relevant and material pre-election issue or assert any relevant and material position at any time prior to the close of the hearing.’’;
(3)
by striking
and shall certify the results thereof
and inserting
to be conducted as soon as practicable but no earlier than 35 calendar days after the filing of an election petition. The Board shall certify the results of the election after it has ruled on each pre-election issue not resolved before the election and any additional issue pertaining to the conduct or results of the election
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
Not earlier than 7 days after a final determination by the Board of the appropriate bargaining unit, the Board shall acquire from the employer a list of all employees eligible to vote in the election to be made available to all parties, which shall include the names of the employees, and one additional form of personal contact information of the employee (such as telephone number, email address, or mailing address) chosen by the employee in writing.
.
