1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns Act of 2018
.
2.
Extension of existing source compliance dates for certain final rules relating to brick and structural clay products and clay ceramics manufacturing
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Action
(A)
In general
The term
action
means any action relating to a final rule that—
(i)
seeks judicial review of any aspect of the final rule; and
(ii)
is filed during the 60-day period beginning on the date on which notice of issuance of the final rule was published in the Federal Register.
(B)
Inclusion
The term
action
includes an action described in subparagraph (A) that is filed pursuant to section 307 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7607
).
(2)
Contested final rule
The term
contested final rule
means a final rule subject to judicial appeal or review on December 26, 2017.
(3)
Existing source compliance date
The term
existing source compliance date
, with respect to a final rule, means the date by which an existing source (within the meaning of the final rule described in paragraph (4)(A)) (including such an existing source that is a unit of State, Tribal, or local government) is first required to comply with any requirement of the final rule.
(4)
Final rule
The term
final rule
means—
(A)
the final rule of the Environmental Protection Agency entitled
NESHAP for Brick and Structural Clay Products Manufacturing; and NESHAP for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing
(80 Fed. Reg. 65470 (October 26, 2015)); and
(B)
the final rule of the Environmental Protection Agency entitled
NESHAP for Brick and Structural Clay Products Manufacturing; and NESHAP for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing: Correction
(80 Fed. Reg. 75817 (December 4, 2015)).
(b)
Extension of existing source compliance dates for contested final rules
The existing source compliance date for a contested final rule shall be extended until the earlier of—
(1)
the date that is 2 years after the date on which judgment becomes final, and no longer subject to further appeal or review, in all actions relating to the contested final rule; and
(2)
December 26, 2020.
(c)
Regulations
In the case of a judgment entered against the Environmental Protection Agency relating to a contested final rule, the Administrator shall finalize, by not later than 1 year after the date on which the judicial review or appeal of the judgment concludes, new regulations under section 112 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7412
) with respect to national emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay products manufacturing and clay ceramics manufacturing.
