SECTION 1. The authority vested in the President by section 606(c) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is hereby delegated to the Federal Communications Commission to the extent necessary for preparing and putting into effect plans with respect to radio stations as defined in section 5 hereof, except those owned and operated by any department or agency of the United States Government, to minimize the use of the electromagnetic radiations of such stations, in event of attack or of imminent threat thereof, as an aid to the navigation of hostile aircraft, guided missiles, and other devices capable of direct attack upon the United States. The authority so delegated to the Commission shall be exercised subject to the following limitations:

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed as authorizing the Commission to exercise any authority with respect to the content of station programs.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to authorize the Commission to take over and use any radio station or to remove the apparatus and equipment of any radio station.

(c) The plans of the Commission for exercising its authority under this order shall not become effective until they have been concurred in by the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.

SEC. 2. With respect to radio stations belonging to and operated by any department or agency of the United States Government, the head of each government department or agency the stations of which are involved shall, pursuant to the authority vested in the President by section 305 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, prepare and put into effect such plans as may be necessary to minimize the use of electromagnetic radiation of these stations in event of attack or imminent threat thereof as an aid to hostile aircraft, guided missiles, and other devices capable of direct attack upon the United States. Such plans shall not become effective until they have been concurred in by the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.

SEC. 3. Whenever, pursuant to the provisions of this order, any radio station shall have been required to cease operations or whenever the normal operations of any radio station have been interfered with, such station shall be allowed to resume operations or return to normal operations as the case may be, at the earliest possible time consistent with the national security. In exercising the authority delegated by this order, due consideration shall be given to civil defense and other national-security requirements.

SEC. 4. The Federal Communications Commission, the Secretary of Defense, and the head of each government department or agency the stations of which are involved, are hereby authorized to issue appropriate rules, regulations, orders, and instructions, and to take such other action as may be necessary, to assure the timely and effective operation of the plans and for carrying out their respective functions hereunder, and are authorized to require full compliance with their respective plans.

SEC. 5. Wherever the words "station" or "radio station" are used in this order, they shall be deemed to include any station for radio communication, and also any device capable of emitting electromagnetic radiations between 10 kilocycles and 100,000 megacycles, suitable for use as a navigational aid beyond five miles.

SEC. 6. (a) Any reference herein to the Federal Communications Commission shall, except for the purpose of issuing rules and regulations, be deemed to include the Chairman or any other member of the Commission as the Commission may designate; and reference to the Secretary of Defense shall be deemed to include the Secretary or such person as he may designate; and any reference to the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board shall be deemed to include the Chairman or such person as he may designate.

(b) Such rules and regulations as Federal Communications Commission may issue pursuant to this order shall be issued by the Commission, except that the Commission may provide that, in the event of hostile action against the United States or imminent threat thereof, such rules and regulations may be issued by the Chairman.

SEC. 7. Every government department and agency shall give such aid and assistance to the Secretary of Defense, and shall render such cooperation with one another, as may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of this order.

SEC. 8. The Federal Communications Commission is hereby authorized to appoint such advisory committees as it may consider necessary or desirable to advise and assist the Commission in the performance of its duties hereunder.
