1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pala Band of Mission Indians Land Transfer Act of 2023
.
2.
Transfer of land into trust for the Pala Band of Mission Indians
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(2)
Tribe
The term
Tribe
means the Pala Band of Mission Indians.
(b)
Transfer and administration
(1)
Transfer of land into trust
If, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Tribe transfers title to the land referred to in subsection (c) to the United States, the Secretary, not later than 180 days after the date of that transfer, shall take that land into trust for the benefit of the Tribe.
(2)
Administration
The land taken into trust under paragraph (1) shall be part of the Pala Indian Reservation and administered in accordance with the laws and regulations generally applicable to land held in trust by the United States for an Indian Tribe.
(c)
Land description
The land referred to in subsection (b)(1) is the approximately 721.12 acres of land located in San Diego County, California, generally depicted as
Gregory Canyon Property Boundary
on the map entitled
Pala Gregory Canyon Property Boundary and Parcels
and dated May 12, 2020.
(d)
Rules of construction
Nothing in this section—
(1)
enlarges, impairs, or otherwise affects any right or claim of the Tribe to any land or interest in land that is in existence before the date of enactment of this Act;
(2)
affects any water right of the Tribe in existence before the date of enactment of this Act; or
(3)
terminates or limits any access in any way to any right-of-way or right-of-use issued, granted, or permitted before the date of enactment of this Act.
(e)
Restricted use of transferred lands
The Tribe may not conduct, on the land taken into trust under subsection (b)(1), gaming activities—
(1)
as a matter of claimed inherent authority; or
(2)
under any Federal law, including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (
25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.
) and regulations promulgated by the Secretary or the National Indian Gaming Commission under that Act.
