1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Natural Disaster Education and Outreach Act of 2024
.
2.
Communication program regarding patterns and trends with respect to changing weather and climate
(a)
In general
The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere (in this section referred to as the
Under Secretary
) shall establish a communications program to communicate with the general public about patterns and trends with respect to changing weather and climate with the goal of—
(1)
providing communities and local governments in the United States operational climate products and services to base key decisions about allocating resources and preparedness measures before actual weather events occur; and
(2)
informing the general public about changing weather patterns caused by a changing climate.
(b)
Communication regarding climate assessments
In carrying out the communications program required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall include communication regarding the climate assessments conducted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and may consider including communication regarding other government climate assessments required by the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (
15 U.S.C. 2921 et seq.
), such as the National Climate Assessment.
(c)
Working group
(1)
In general
In carrying out the communications program required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall maintain a working group for the purpose of identifying the most effective ways to disseminate information about changing weather patterns and risks associated with such changes, including public campaigns, educational resources for community and local leaders, and outreach to key decision makers and educators in local government and community organizations.
(2)
Makeup and organization
The Under Secretary shall determine the makeup and organization of the working group required under paragraph (1).
(3)
Support services
The working group required under paragraph (1) shall coordinate with existing programs engaged in weather and climate communication and the provision of operational climate services, including the impact-based decision support services of the National Weather Service.
(d)
Funding
There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2028 to carry out this section.
