1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Facilitating Hazard Mitigation Projects Act
.
2.
Report on cost effectiveness requirements for hazard mitigation assistance
(a)
Covered assistance defined
In this section, the term
covered assistance
means—
(1)
any grant program authorized under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133);
(2)
the hazard mitigation grant program authorized under section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c);
(3)
hazard mitigation assistance authorized under section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172); and
(4)
the flood mitigation assistance program authorized under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104c).
(b)
Report
Not later than 360 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall—
(1)
evaluate how to reduce the complexity of the cost effectiveness requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency for covered assistance; and
(2)
submit to Congress a report on the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1), including efforts to implement the findings of the evaluation.
(c)
Outreach
In carrying out the evaluation required under subsection (b), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall consult with appropriate Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments and nonprofit organizations to discuss proposals and receive feedback related to reducing the complexity of cost effectiveness analysis for covered assistance.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives on—
(1)
the status of the evaluation required under subsection (b)(1); and
(2)
outreach carried out under subsection (c).
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to modify or otherwise affect any cost effectiveness requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency related to covered assistance in existence as of the date of enactment of this Act.
