1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Every Supreme Court Nominee Deserves Timely Consideration Act
.
2.
Supreme court judicial review procedure
(a)
Discharge
In the Senate, if the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate has not reported a nomination for the Chief Justice of the United States or an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States at the end of 60 continuous days of session after the date on which the nomination is referred to such committee, any Member may submit to the Congressional Record a notice of intent to discharge the nomination. At the end of 20 calendar days after the notice of intent to file such petition, such committee may be discharged from further consideration of such nomination upon a petition supported in writing by 30 Members of the Senate, and such nomination shall be placed on the calendar. Debate on the motion, and on all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall not be in order.
(b)
Consideration
(1)
Debate
In the Senate, debate on the nomination, and on all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 30 hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the nomination. A motion further to limit debate is not in order and not debatable. A motion to postpone, a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business, or any amendment thereto, is not in order. A one-time nondebatable motion to extend the consideration of the nomination an additional 30 hours shall only be in order when supported in writing by 30 Members of the Senate.
(2)
Vote
In the Senate, immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a nomination described in subsection (b)(1), and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate, the vote on the confirmation of the nomination shall occur.
(c)
Rules of the senate
This section is enacted by Congress—
(1)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of the Senate, and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(2)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of the Senate to change such rules (so far as relating to the procedure of the Senate) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the Senate.
