1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Survivors from Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2023
.
2.
Data collection
(a)
Collection of data on brain injuries related to domestic and sexual violence
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
) shall collect data on the prevalence of brain injuries resulting from domestic or sexual violence in order to assist the Department in understanding, addressing, and allocating resources to prevent, reduce, and treat such injuries, the impacts of such injuries, and the causes of such injuries.
(2)
Collection
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall, through existing surveys on domestic or sexual violence, collect data on the prevalence and circumstances surrounding brain injuries due to domestic or sexual violence. The Secretary shall allow for data collection for not fewer than 2 years.
(3)
Privacy
Data shall be collected, stored, and analyzed under this section in a manner that protects individual privacy and confidentiality.
(b)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to relevant congressional committees, and post on the website of the Department of Health and Human Services, a report that shall contain—
(1)
an analysis of the data collected under subsection (a) relating to the connection between domestic and sexual violence and brain injuries; and
(2)
a description of the steps that the Department of Health and Human Services is taking to increase awareness, increase services, decrease prevalence, and otherwise respond to the public health issue of brain injury that results from domestic and sexual violence.
(c)
Funding
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
(d)
Definition
In this section, the term
brain injury
means an injury that impacts the function of the brain as a result of trauma, choking, or strangulation due to domestic or sexual violence.
