1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
State Climate Assessment Act of 2024
.
2.
Support by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of State climate assessments
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall provide support to State governments, and entities and institutions partnering or collaborating with State governments under subsection (e), in the production by those governments, at the election of those governments, of quadrennial State climate assessments.
(b)
Support required
In providing support under subsection (a), the Administrator shall provide technical assistance and data.
(c)
Climate assessment coordination officer
(1)
In general
The Director of the National Weather Service shall designate not fewer than one climate assessment coordination officer at each weather forecast office of the National Weather Service to coordinate the support required under subsection (a).
(2)
Responsibilities
The officer designated under paragraph (1) shall liaise and collaborate with State and local governments and entities and institutions partnering or collaborating with State governments under subsection (e) to facilitate the sharing of information and the development of quadrennial State climate assessments.
(d)
Elements of assessment
A State government that elects to produce a quadrennial State climate assessment under subsection (a) shall, as a condition of the receipt of support under that subsection, ensure that the assessment—
(1)
includes an analysis of the effects of global change on the natural environment, agriculture, energy production and use, land and water resources, transportation, human health and welfare, human social systems, and biological diversity in that State;
(2)
includes an analysis of current trends in global change, both human-induced and natural, and how those trends impact that State, and a projection of major trends for the next 25 to 100 years in that State; and
(3)
integrates, evaluates, and interprets the findings of the assessment and discusses the scientific uncertainties associated with such findings.
(e)
Collaboration
(1)
In general
A State government that elects to produce a quadrennial State climate assessment under subsection (a) may collaborate or partner with private entities and institutions of higher education (or a consortia thereof) in developing and producing such quadrennial State climate assessment.
(2)
Institution of higher education defined
In this subsection, the term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
