1.
Reports on certain out-of-cycle and premature personnel transfers
(a)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2025, and each December 1 thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, and any other committee of Congress the Secretary considers appropriate, a report detailing the number and nature of out-of-cycle or premature personnel transfers carried out during the preceding fiscal year for individuals described in subsection (b) as a result of such individuals, or the dependents of such individuals, being affected by—
(1)
sexual assault;
(2)
sexual harassment;
(3)
humanitarian or compassionate requests;
(4)
discrimination, harassment, bullying, reprisals, or threats based on the race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including gender identity), or sexual orientation of such individuals or dependents;
(5)
medical issues, including lack of access to care for such individuals or dependents at their current duty location; or
(6)
child custody arrangements.
(b)
Individual described
An individual described in this subsection is an individual who is—
(1)
a member of the Armed Forces on active duty;
(2)
a member of the Armed Forces in a reserve component;
(3)
a member of the National Guard; or
(4)
a civilian employee of the Department of Defense.
(c)
Elements
Each report required by subsection (a) shall include the following for the preceding fiscal year:
(1)
The total number of personnel transfers for each reason described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a).
(2)
Demographic information of each individual involved in such a transfer, including the age, gender, and military rank or civilian pay grade of the individual.
(3)
An analysis of the geographic distribution of such transfers.
(4)
For each such transfer, the branch or component of the Department of Defense to which the individual concerned was transferred.
(5)
A description of any trend or pattern identified in the data, including recurring issues or areas of concern.
(6)
An estimate of the total cost of such transfers.
(d)
Form
Each report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex, as necessary to protect sensitive information.
(e)
Privacy
To ensure the privacy of military personnel, personally identifiable information shall not be included in any report under this section.
(f)
Public availability
The Secretary shall make each report required by subsection (a) available to the public on the internet website of the Department of Defense.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Out-of-cycle or premature
With respect to a personnel transfer, the term
out-of-cycle or premature
means an assignment action taken in advance of the originally scheduled or anticipated rotation date of the personnel concerned.
(2)
Personnel transfer
The term
personnel transfer
includes a permanent change of duty station, temporary duty assignment, reassignment, permanent change of assignment, and any other movement of military personnel within the Department of Defense.
