SECTION 1. Establishment of  . There is hereby established the President's  , hereinafter referred to as the  . The   shall be composed of such citizens from private life as the President may, from time to time, appoint. The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as chairman.

 . 2. Functions of  . The   shall advise the President and the heads of appropriate Federal agencies concerning the expeditious and coordinated resettlement of refugees from Southeast Asia. The   shall include in its advice, consideration of the following areas:

(a) Health and environmental matters related to resettlement;

(b) the interrelationship of the governmental and volunteer roles in the resettlement;

(c) educational and cultural adjustments required by these efforts;

(d) the general well-being of resettled refugees and their families in their new   communities; and

(e) such other related concerns as the President may, from time to time, specify.

The   shall also seek to facilitate the location, solicitation, and channeling of private resources for these resettlement efforts, and to establish lines of communication with all concerned governmental agencies, relevant voluntary agencies, the  -American community and the   public at large. The   shall conclude its work within  .

 . 3. Assistance, Cooperation, and Expenses.

(a) All executive departments and agencies of the Federal government, to the extent permitted by law, are directed to cooperate with the   and to furnish such information, facilities, funds, and assistance as the   may require.

(b) No member of the   shall receive compensation from   by reason of service on the  , but may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 4.  . Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. 1), except that of reporting   to  , which are applicable to the advisory committee established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , and  .
