SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established   in   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of a representative, whose status is not below that of an Assistant Secretary, designated by each of the following:

(1) The Secretary of  .

(2) The Secretary of the  .

(3) The Secretary of  .

(4) The Secretary of  .

(5) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.

(6) The Executive Director of  .

The representative of the Secretary of the   shall be the chairman of  . The chairman, as he deems appropriate, may invite representatives of other departments and agencies to participate from time to time in activities of the  .

(b) The   shall have primary continuing responsibility within   for monitoring the impact of foreign investment in  , both direct and portfolio, and for coordinating the implementation of   policy on such investment. In fulfillment of this responsibility, the   shall:

(1) arrange for the preparation of analyses of trends and significant developments in foreign investments in  ;

(2) provide guidance on arrangements with foreign governments for advance consultations on prospective major foreign governmental investments in  ;

(3) review investments in   which, in the judgment of the  , might have major implications for   national interests; and

(4) consider proposals for new legislation or regulations relating to foreign investment as may appear necessary.

(c) As the need arises, the   shall submit recommendations and analyses to   and to the Economic.Policy Board. It shall also arrange for the preparation and publication of periodic reports.

 . 2. The Secretary of  , with respect to the collection and use of data on foreign investment in  , shall provide, in particular, for the performance of the following activities:

(a) The obtainment, consolidation, and analysis of information on foreign investment in  ;

(b) the improvement of procedures for the collection and dissemination of information on such foreign investment;

(c) the close observation of foreign investment in  ;

(d) the preparation of reports and analyses of trends and of significant developments in appropriate categories of such investment;

(e) the compilation of data and preparation of evaluations of significant investment transactions; and

(f) the submission to the   appropriate reports, analyses, data and recommendations relating to foreign investment in  , including recommendations as to how information on foreign investment can be kept current.

 . 3. The Secretary of the   is authorized, without further approval of the President, to make reasonable use of the resources of  , in accordance with section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of  , as amended (31 U.S.C. 822a), to pay any of the expenses directly incurred by the Secretary of   in the performance of the functions and activities provided by this order. This authority shall be in effect for  , unless revoked prior thereto.

 . 4. All departments and agencies are directed to provide, to the extent permitted by law, such information and assistance as may be requested by the   or the Secretary of   in carrying out their functions and activities under this order.

 . 5. Information which has been submitted or received in confidence shall not be publicly disclosed, except to the extent required by law; and such information shall be used by the   only for the purpose of carrying out the functions and activities prescribed by this order.

 . 6. Nothing in this order shall affect the data-gathering, regulatory, or enforcement authority of any existing department or agency over foreign investment, and the review of individual investments provided by this order shall not in any way supersede or prejudice any other process provided by law.
