SECTION 1. Notwithstanding the expiration of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), the provisions for administration of that act contained in Executive Order No.  , as continued in effect by Executive  .   of August 29,  , 11798 of  , and   of  , and as amended by Executive Order No. 11907 of  , shall continue in full force and effect and shall authorize the exercise and administration of export controls, under the authority vested in me as President of   by section 5(b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C.  , 50 U.S.C. App. 5(b)).

 . 2. Except to the extent another basis is provided in the second sentence of section 4 of this order, all rules and regulations issued by the Secretary of   under the authority of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, including those published in Title 15, Chapter III,  , of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 368 to 399 inclusive, and all orders, regulations, licenses and other forms of administrative action issued or taken pursuant thereto, shall until amended or revoked by the Secretary of  , remain in full force and effect, the same as if issued or taken pursuant to this  , except that the maximum fine which may be imposed under section 387.1(a) (1) of Title 15, Code of Federal Regulation, shall not exceed $10,000 and that the civil penalty provided for under section 387.1(b) (3) thereof will not be applicable to any violation of the regulations under this  .

 . 3. Provisions for the administration of Section 38 (e) of   (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) may be made and shall continue in full force and effect until amended or revoked under the authority of section 5(b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C.  , 50 U.S.C. App. 5 (b)), and this   shall constitute authority for the issuance and continuation in full force and effect of rules and regulations by the President or his delegate, and all orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued or taken pursuant thereto, relating to the administration of section 38(e) of  .

 . 4. The delegations of authority in this order shall not affect the authority of any agency or official pursuant to any other delegation of Presidential authority, presently in effect or hereafter made, under section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended. Those regulations issued under the Export Control Act of  , as amended, to implement foreign policy set forth in Executive  .   of     of July 29,  , shall until amended or revoked by the Secretary of   continue to apply as regulations issued under such orders.
