1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alzheimer’s Breakthrough Sunshine Act
.
2.
Exclusion of amounts received in sales of breakthrough therapy drugs to treat Alzheimer’s disease
(a)
In general
Part III of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting before section 140 the following new section:
139F.
Breakthrough therapy drugs to treat Alzheimer’s disease
(a)
In general
Gross income does not include amounts received from the qualified sale of an Alzheimer’s drug.
(b)
Limitation
Subsection (a) shall not apply after the end of the sixth taxable year beginning after the taxable year within which the Alzheimer’s drug is first approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
(c)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Alzheimer’s disease
The term
Alzheimer’s disease
means Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias.
(2)
Alzheimer’s drug
The term
Alzheimer’s drug
means a drug approved or licensed under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act as a disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer’s disease and that has been designated as a breakthrough therapy under section 506(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(3)
Qualified sale
The term
qualified sale
means the sale (through an arm’s length transaction) by the holder of the approved application for an Alzheimer’s drug.
(d)
Termination
Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any Alzheimer’s drug that is first approved by the Food and Drug Administration after the date which is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
.
(b)
Conforming Amendment
The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting before the item relating to section 140 the following new item:
Sec. 139F. Breakthrough therapy drugs to treat Alzheimer’s disease.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.
