1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Investing in Older Americans Act of 2016
.
2.
Extension and modification of work opportunity tax credit
(a)
Credit made permanent
Section 51(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking paragraph (4) and redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).
(b)
Credit for hiring older long-Term unemployment recipients
(1)
In general
Section 51(d)(1) of such Code is amended by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (H), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (I) and inserting
, or
, and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(J)
a qualified older long-term unemployment recipient.
.
(2)
Qualified older long-term unemployment recipient
Section 51(d) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(15)
Qualified older long-term unemployment recipient
The term
qualified older long-term unemployment recipient
means any individual who is certified by the designated local agency—
(A)
as having attained age 55 on the hiring date, and
(B)
as being a qualified long-term unemployment recipient.
.
(3)
Limitation on wages taken into account
Section 51(b)(3) of such Code is amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (d)(3)(A)(iv), and
and inserting
subsection (d)(3)(A)(iv),
, and
(B)
by striking
subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii)(II))
and inserting
subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii)(II), and $14,000 in the case of any individual who is a qualified older long-term unemployment recipient by reason of subsection (d)(15))
.
(4)
Inflation adjustment
Section 51(b) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Adjustment for inflation
In the case of any taxable year beginning after 2016, the $14,000 dollar amount contained in paragraph (3) relating to qualified older long-term unemployment recipients shall be increased by an amount equal to the product of—
(A)
such dollar amount, and
(B)
the cost of living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins determined by substituting
calendar year 2015
for
calendar year 1992
in subparagraph (B) thereof.
If any increase determined under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $50, such increase
shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $50.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to individuals who begin work for the employer after December 31, 2015.
