1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016
.
2.
Jurisdiction over offenses committed by certain United States personnel stationed in Canada
(a)
Amendment
Chapter 212A
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the chapter heading, by striking
trafficking in persons
; and
(2)
by adding after section 3272 the following:
3273.
Offenses committed by certain United States personnel stationed in Canada in furtherance of border security initiatives
(a)
In general
Whoever, while employed by the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Justice and stationed or deployed in Canada pursuant to a treaty, executive agreement, or bilateral memorandum in furtherance of a border security initiative, engages in conduct (or conspires or attempts to engage in conduct) in Canada that would constitute an offense for which a person may be prosecuted in a court of the United States had the conduct been engaged in within the United States or within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States shall be fined or imprisoned, or both, as provided for that offense.
(b)
Definition
In this section, the term
employed by the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Justice
means—
(1)
being employed as a civilian employee, a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier), or an employee of a contractor (or a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Justice;
(2)
being present or residing in Canada in connection with such employment; and
(3)
not being a national of or ordinarily resident in Canada.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendments
Part II of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the table of chapters, by striking the item relating to chapter 212A and inserting the following:
212A.
Extraterritorial jurisdiction over certain offenses
3271
;
and
(2)
in the table of sections for chapter 212A, by inserting after the item relating to section 3272 the following:
3273. Offenses committed by certain United States personnel stationed in Canada in furtherance of border security initiatives.
.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to infringe upon or otherwise affect the exercise of prosecutorial discretion by the Department of Justice in implementing this section and the amendments made by this section.
