1.
World language advancement grant program
Part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7241 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
22
World Language Advancement Act
5621.
Short title
This subpart may be cited as the
World Language Advancement Act of 2015
.
5622.
Program authorized
(a)
Program authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary is authorized to make grants, on a competitive basis, to State educational agencies or local educational agencies to pay the Federal share of the cost of innovative model programs providing for the establishment, improvement, or expansion of world language study for elementary school and secondary school students.
(2)
Duration
Each grant under paragraph (1) shall be awarded for a period of 3 years.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Grants to State educational agencies
In awarding a grant under subsection (a) to a State educational agency, the Secretary shall support programs that promote systemic approaches to improving world language learning in the State.
(2)
Grants to local educational agencies
In awarding a grant under subsection (a) to a local educational agency, the Secretary shall support programs that—
(A)
show the promise of being continued beyond the grant period;
(B)
demonstrate approaches that can be disseminated and duplicated in other local educational agencies; and
(C)
may include a professional development component.
(c)
Federal share
(1)
In general
The Federal share for each fiscal year shall be 50 percent.
(2)
Waiver
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may determine the Federal share for any local educational agency which the Secretary determines does not have adequate resources to pay the non-Federal share of the cost of the activities assisted under this subpart.
(d)
Special rule
Not less than 75 percent of the funds made available under section 5401 to carry out this subpart shall be used for the expansion of world language learning in the elementary grades.
(e)
Reservation
The Secretary may reserve not more than 5 percent of funds made available under section 5401 to carry out this subpart for a fiscal year to evaluate the efficacy of programs assisted under this subpart.
5623.
Applications
(a)
In general
Any State educational agency or local educational agency desiring a grant under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
(b)
Special consideration
The Secretary shall give special consideration to applications describing programs that—
(1)
include intensive summer world language programs for professional development of world language teachers;
(2)
link nonnative English speakers in the community with the schools in order to promote two-way language learning;
(3)
promote the sequential study of a world language for students, beginning in elementary schools;
(4)
make effective use of technology, such as computer-assisted instruction, language laboratories, or distance learning, to promote world language study;
(5)
promote innovative activities, such as world language immersion, partial world language immersion, or content-based instruction; and
(6)
are carried out through a consortium comprised of the agency receiving the grant and an elementary school or secondary school.
5624.
Definition
In this subpart, the term
world language
means any natural language other than English, including classical languages, American sign language, and Native American languages.
.
2.
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 5618 the following:
Subpart 22. World Language Advancement Act
Sec. 5621. Short title.
Sec. 5622. Program authorized.
Sec. 5623. Applications.
Sec. 5624. Definition.
.
