1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modernizing Firearm Technology Act
.
2.
Requirements relating to the availability of personalized handguns from federally licensed firearms dealers
(a)
Requirements
Section 923 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(m)
(1)
Each licensed dealer shall maintain a personalized handgun in the sales inventory of the licensed dealer, prominently display a personalized handgun at the location specified on the license to deal in firearms issued to the licensed dealer under this chapter, and offer a personalized handgun for sale to members of the public who are not prohibited by law from possessing a handgun.
(2)
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a pawnbroker or a person who deals in only antique firearms.
.
(b)
Definitions
Section 921(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
(36)
Personalized handgun
The term
personalized handgun
means a handgun that—
(A)
enables only an authorized user of the handgun to fire the handgun; and
(B)
was manufactured in such a manner that the firing restriction described in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
is incorporated into the design of the handgun; and
(ii)
cannot be removed or deactivated by anyone other than such an authorized user.
(37)
Authorized user
The term
authorized user
, with respect to a handgun, means the lawful owner of the handgun and any individual authorized by the owner to use the handgun who is allowed to own, carry, or use a firearm in the State where the firearm is being used.
.
(c)
Penalties for noncompliance
Section 924 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following;
(q)
Penalties relating to availability of personalized firearms
(1)
In general
(A)
Escalating penalties
In the case of a violation of section 923(m)(1) by a licensed dealer, the Attorney General shall, after notice and opportunity for hearing, impose such civil penalties as the Attorney General deems appropriate.
(B)
Review
An action of the Secretary under subparagraph (A) may be reviewed only as provided under section 923(f).
(2)
Administrative remedies
The imposition of a civil penalty under paragraph (1) shall not preclude any administrative remedy that is otherwise available to the Secretary.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date the National Institute of Justice causes to be published in the Federal Register a certification at least 2 different models of personalized handguns (as defined in section 921(a)(36) of title 18, United States Code) are available commercially in sufficient quantities to enable licensed dealers (as defined in paragraph (11) of such section) to comply with the amendments. The National Institute of Justice may not cause such a certification to be so published with respect to a model of personalized handgun that does not fire at least as reliably as the average non-personalized handgun.
