1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prevent Repeat Offenders Act of 2015
.
2.
Registration of certain aliens
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (
42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
132.
Registration of certain aliens in custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement on sex offender
registry and notification to State, tribal, and local authorities
(a)
Registration
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take appropriate actions to ensure that, prior to the release of an alien in the custody of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (hereinafter in this section referred to as
ICE
) who is required to register under this Act—
(1)
in coordination with the Attorney General, such alien is registered in the National Sex Offender Registry; and
(2)
such alien is informed of their registration requirements under this Act.
(b)
Condition of release
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take appropriate actions to ensure that the release of an alien who is required to register under this Act is conditioned on such alien’s registration in each jurisdiction required by this Act.
(c)
Notification of state, tribal, and local authorities
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take appropriate actions to ensure that the chief law enforcement officer of each State, tribal, and local jurisdiction in which the alien resides and the agency responsible for the receipt or maintenance of sex offender registration information in the State, tribal, or local jurisdiction in which the alien resides are promptly notified when an alien who is required to register under this Act is—
(1)
taken into custody by ICE;
(2)
released from ICE custody; or
(3)
removed from the United States.
(d)
Report to congress
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to Congress on the progress made in implementing the amendment made by this Act.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections in section 1 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 131 the following new item:
132. Registration of certain aliens in custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement on sex
offender registry and notification to State, tribal, and local
authorities.
.
