1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Access to Health Care Act of 2015
.
2.
Phaseout of health insurance tax credit adjusted to take into account geographic variation in the cost-of-living
(a)
In general
Section 36B(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Geographic adjustment for cost-of-living
(A)
In general
In the case of a taxpayer whose principal place of residence for any taxable year is located in a high cost area, there shall be substituted
the specified percentage
for
400 percent
in paragraph (3)(A)(i) and in subsections (c)(1)(A) and (f)(2)(B).
(B)
High cost area
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
high cost area
means any metropolitan statistical area or non-metropolitan area the SPM for which exceeds the national average SPM.
(C)
Specified percentage
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
specified percentage
means, with respect to a taxpayer whose principal place of residence for any taxable year is located in a high cost area, the product of 400 percent and the SPM adjustment for such area.
(D)
SPM
For purposes of this paragraph—
(i)
In general
The term
SPM
means, with respect to each calendar year, the Supplemental Poverty Measure as determined by the Bureau of the Census.
(ii)
National average SPM
The national average SPM shall be determined without regard to Alaska and Hawaii.
(iii)
Determination for taxable year based on preceding calendar year
SPM with respect to any taxable year shall be determined on the basis of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the taxable year begins.
(E)
SPM adjustment
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
SPM adjustment
means, with respect to a high cost area for a calendar year, the SPM adjustment as determined by the Bureau of the Census.
(F)
Alternative measure of cost-of-living
If the Secretary determines that another measure of cost-of-living is more appropriate than the SPM for purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary shall use such measure in lieu of the SPM.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
