1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Carbon Pollution Transparency Act of 2015
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Carbon score
The term
carbon score
means the projected net greenhouse gas emissions that would result—
(A)
from the enactment and implementation of a bill or resolution; and
(B)
if the amounts authorized to be appropriated, or otherwise made available, in the bill or resolution were fully appropriated.
(2)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Congressional Budget Office.
(3)
Greenhouse gas
The term
greenhouse gas
has the meaning given the term in section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)
).
(4)
Net greenhouse gas emissions
The term
net greenhouse gas emissions
means the net quantity of all greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere, including emissions by sources and removals by sinks, where the total quantity of emissions for each gas is expressed as a carbon dioxide equivalent.
3.
Carbon score
(a)
In general
In carrying out section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (
2 U.S.C. 653
), the Director shall include in the analysis submitted to the appropriate committee of Congress the carbon score of each public bill or resolution.
(b)
Net greenhouse gas emissions baseline
In calculating the carbon score under subsection (a), the Director shall base any calculation of the increase or decrease of the level of greenhouse gas emissions on a comparison with the level of greenhouse gas emissions occurring under current law.
(c)
Scope of calculated emissions
In calculating the carbon score under subsection (a), the Director shall consider all likely changes in net greenhouse gas emissions, including—
(1)
any changes to net greenhouse gas emissions that would directly result from activities required to carry out the bill or resolution; and
(2)
any changes to net greenhouse gas emissions that would—
(A)
indirectly result from activities required to carry out the bill or resolution; and
(B)
not otherwise have occurred.
(d)
Established best practices
In calculating the carbon score under subsection (a), the Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use established best practices for estimating emissions, such as—
(1)
lifecycle analysis; and
(2)
internationally recognized methodologies (such as guidelines from the International Panel on Climate Change).
(e)
Timeline
The Director shall calculate the carbon score under subsection (a) on the same timeline as the Director carries out the analysis under section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (
2 U.S.C. 653
).
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director such sums as are necessary to develop the expertise and capacity required to carry out the analyses required under section 3.
