1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Requesting Emergency Services and Providing Origination Notification Systems Everywhere Act of 2016
or the
RESPONSE Act of 2016
.
2.
Accuracy of 9-1-1 call location information
(a)
Adoption of rules
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall adopt rules to ensure that call location information is conveyed with a 9-1-1 call, regardless of the technological platform used and including with calls from multi-line telephone systems (as defined in section 6502 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1471
)).
(b)
Relationship to other proceedings
In adopting the rules required by subsection (a), the Commission may consider information and conclusions from other Commission proceedings regarding the accuracy of call location information, but nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Commission to reconsider any information or conclusion from a proceeding regarding the accuracy of call location information in which the Commission has adopted rules or issued an order before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Other authority
In addition to the authority to adopt the rules required by subsection (a), the Commission shall have the authority to adopt any other rules, technical standards, protocols, and procedures as are necessary to ensure that call location information is conveyed as described in such subsection.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
9-1-1 call
The term
9-1-1 call
means a voice call that is placed, or a message that is sent by other means of communication, to a public safety answering point (as defined in section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 222
)) for the purpose of requesting emergency services.
(2)
Call location information
The term
call location information
means accurate and timely information regarding the location of the caller, as determined to be technically feasible and achievable by the Commission.
(3)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
