1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flexibility and Oversight Act
.
2.
Transfer authority among certain programs
(a)
In general
(1)
Transfer authority
Subchapter IV of
chapter 76
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7637.
Transfer authority
(a)
Authority
Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may transfer funds made available to the Secretary to carry out a covered program between that covered program and another covered program. Funds so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the funds to which transferred.
(b)
Certification
The Secretary may make a transfer under subsection (a) if—
(1)
the Secretary determines that such transfer will improve the quality of service provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to veterans;
(2)
the Secretary notifies Congress of such determination and justification for such transfer; and
(3)
a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date of such notification.
(c)
Effect
A transfer made from one account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
(d)
Covered program defined
In this section, the term
covered program
means any of the following:
(1)
The Department of Veterans Affairs Health Professional Scholarship Program under subchapter II of this chapter.
(2)
The Department of Veterans Affairs Employee Incentive Scholarship Program under subchapter VI of this chapter.
(3)
The Department of Veterans Affairs Education Debt Reduction Program under subchapter VII of this chapter.
(4)
The education debt reduction program under section 7903 of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7636 the following new item:
7637. Transfer authority.
.
(b)
Reports
Section 7632 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following paragraph:
(8)
During the 10-year period beginning on March 1, 2016, an evaluation of the efficacy of the programs in increasing the quality of health care provided to veterans, opportunities for improvement, and other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
.
