1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The economy is still struggling to recover from the recession. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the unemployment rate is 5.4 percent nationwide and is significantly higher in some minority and disadvantaged communities.
(2)
The American Society of Civil Engineers gave the public infrastructure of the United States a grade of “D+” in 2013 and estimated that we will need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 in order to improve the condition of our Nation’s public infrastructure.
(3)
TIGER, formally known as the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grant program, is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by States, local governments, and transit agencies.
(4)
TIGER funds projects that will have a significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region.
(5)
In distributing grants under TIGER, the Secretary of Transportation is required to ensure an equitable geographic distribution of funds, a balance in addressing the needs of urban and rural areas, and investments in a variety of modes of transportation.
(6)
TIGER received an appropriation of $600,000,000 in fiscal year 2014 and an appropriation of $500,000,000 in fiscal year 2015.
(7)
Past appropriations for TIGER are not sufficient to address the need for investments in transportation infrastructure in communities throughout the United States as the amounts only fund a small fraction of the transportation infrastructure projects for which TIGER grant applications have been received.
(8)
The President requested an appropriation of $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2016, as part of an expanded TIGER program that will provide $7.5 billion for TIGER over 6 years.
(9)
Appropriating $7.5 billion in fiscal year 2016 for TIGER and allowing the funds to remain available for 6 years will enable the Secretary of Transportation to begin immediately to implement the President’s proposal to expand the TIGER program.
(10)
Restricting appropriations for TIGER through the use of arbitrary budget caps or sequestration undermines economic recovery and job creation efforts; disrupts planning by States, local governments, and transit agencies; and leaves critical infrastructure needs unmet.
(11)
Emergency supplemental appropriations for TIGER, provided in addition to other appropriations and not subject to sequestration, will improve transportation infrastructure and create jobs throughout the United States without reducing funding for other domestic priorities.
(12)
An emergency supplemental appropriation of $7.5 billion for TIGER to be made available in fiscal year 2016 and to remain available for 6 years will allow the Secretary of Transportation to begin immediately to organize new competitions for TIGER grants and allow States, local governments, and transit agencies to prepare grant applications, thus ensuring an efficient use of funds and timely job creation.
3.
Supplemental appropriations for TIGER discretionary grant program
The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for fiscal year 2016:
Department of Transportation
Office of the Secretary
National Infrastructure Investments
For an additional amount for
National Infrastructure Investments
in accordance with the provisions under this heading in title I of division K of
Public Law 113–235
, $7,500,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021:
Provided
, That the amount under this heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, except that such amount shall be available only if the President subsequently so designates such amount and transmits such designation to the Congress.
4.
Exemption from sequestration
The appropriation in section 3 shall be exempt from sequestration under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
