1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Local Medicaid Enforcement Incentives Act of 2016
.
2.
Grant program to provide States with funds to detect Medicaid fraud, waste, and abuse and recover certain improper payments
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish a program to award grants, subject to subsection (c), to States to establish or expand a program described in subsection (b).
(b)
Medicaid fraud control program
For purposes of subsection (a), a program described in this subsection is a program that—
(1)
is administered by a State official with responsibility for controlling provider fraud and abuse under the State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
);
(2)
detects and prevents fraud, waste, and abuse with respect to payments made under such State plan or under any waiver of such plan approved under section 1115 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315
);
(3)
identifies and recovers overpayments to individuals or entities receiving funds under such State plan or waiver resulting from such fraud, waste, or abuse; and
(4)
shares with localities within the State that assist in the detection and prevention under paragraph (2) or the identification and recovery under paragraph (3) at least 50 percent of the State’s share of the total amount of such funds so recovered during a period as overpayments under paragraph (3) minus any amount expended during such period on administrative costs to carry out the program.
(c)
Funding
(1)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services $100,000,000 to remain available until expended.
(2)
Limitation
Not more than 5 percent of the amount appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) may be awarded to any State.
(d)
State defined
For purposes of this section, the term
State
has the meaning given such term for purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
).
