1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Water, Cosmetics, and Unwanted Pharmaceuticals Study Act
.
2.
Presence of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in sources of drinking water
Subsection (a) of section 1442 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–1
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(11)
Presence of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in sources of drinking water
(A)
Study
The Administrator shall carry out a study on the presence of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in sources of drinking water, which shall—
(i)
identify pharmaceuticals and personal care products that have been detected in sources of drinking water and the levels at which such pharmaceuticals and personal care products have been detected;
(ii)
identify the sources of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in sources of drinking water, including point sources and nonpoint sources of pharmaceutical and personal care products;
(iii)
identify the effects of such pharmaceuticals and personal care products on humans, the environment, and the safety of drinking water; and
(iv)
identify methods to control, limit, treat, or prevent the presence of such pharmaceuticals and personal care products.
(B)
Consultation
The Administrator shall conduct the study described in subparagraph (A) in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs), the Director of the United States Geological Survey, the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies (including the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences), and other interested stakeholders (including manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and personal care products and consumer groups and advocates).
(C)
Report
Not later than 4 years after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Administrator shall submit to the Congress a report on the results of the study carried out under this paragraph.
(D)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
The term
personal care product
has the meaning given the term
cosmetic
in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(ii)
The term
pharmaceutical
has the meaning given the term
drug
in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
.
