1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Healthy Soils and Rangelands Solutions Act
.
2.
Carbon Sequestration Pilot Program
(a)
Program required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall establish a Carbon Sequestration Pilot Program to make grants to eligible entities for projects to carry out eligible activities.
(b)
Science advisory board
As part of the program, the Secretary shall establish a science advisory board to provide analysis and recommendations regarding—
(1)
the selection of eligible entities and eligible activities to receive grants under the program, based on the best available science; and
(2)
appropriate monitoring requirements to be required under subsection (c).
(c)
Monitoring and reporting
As a condition of a grant under the program, the grant recipient shall comply with monitoring and reporting requirements to quantify project performance and communicate results.
(d)
Innovation competition
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall make grants, through a challenge competition, to eligible entities for projects to carry out innovative approaches to eligible activities.
(2)
Listing
The Secretary shall list the challenge competition under this subsection on www.challenge.gov (or any successor website of the Federal Government that lists challenge competitions run by Federal agencies).
(e)
Outreach, education, and technical assistance
The Secretary—
(1)
may provide technical assistance for eligible activities; and
(2)
shall expand outreach and education with respect to carbon sequestration and best practices related to eligible activities.
(f)
Acceptance of Outside funds
The Secretary may accept nonappropriated funds, including funds from other public sources, private companies, nonprofit organizations, or foundations, to carry out the program.
(g)
Reports to Congress
With respect to each project administered under the program, not later than three years after the awarding of the grant, at least every two years thereafter for the duration of the project, and not later than 180 days after the completion of the project, the Secretary, working with grantees and any other agencies of jurisdiction shall submit a report to Congress detailing—
(1)
the progress and accomplishments of the project in general;
(2)
a detailed summary and estimate of the volume of carbon sequestered due to project activities;
(3)
a summary of education and outreach efforts related to the project; and
(4)
a set of recommendations for land management best practices based on the outcome of the project.
(h)
Definitions
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Biochar
The term
biochar
means carbonized biomass produced by converting feedstock through reductive thermal processing.
(2)
Compost
The term
compost
means a biologically stable organic material suitable for use as a amendment that is produced by the controlled aerobic decomposition of manure or other organic material, not including sewage sludge or biosolids, by microorganisms.
(3)
Eligible activity
The term
eligible activity
means a project for sequestering carbon through—
(A)
grazing practices;
(B)
restoring degraded qualified public lands;
(C)
application of compost on qualified public lands; or
(D)
using biochar as an amendment on qualified public lands.
(4)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means an owner or operator of qualified public lands, a university, a nongovernmental organization, or an Indian tribe.
(5)
Program
The term
program
means the Carbon Sequestration Pilot Program established by this section.
(6)
Qualified public lands
The term
qualified public lands
means any land and interest in land owned by the United States within the several States and administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, or the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, without regard to how the United States acquired ownership, except lands located on the Outer Continental Shelf.
(7)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
