1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Dispose Responsibly of your Pills Act of 2015
or
DROP Act of 2015
.
2.
Grants for drug disposal sites
(a)
Program authorized
The Attorney General, in coordination with the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, may make grants to eligible entities to expand or make available disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications.
(b)
Application
(1)
In general
An eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General—
(A)
that meets the criteria under paragraph (2); and
(B)
at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may require.
(2)
Criteria
An eligible entity, in submitting an application under paragraph (1), shall—
(A)
describe the evidence-based methodology and outcome measurements that will be used to evaluate the program funded with a grant under this section, and specifically explain how such measurements will provide valid measures of the impact of the program;
(B)
describe how the program could be broadly replicated if demonstrated to be effective; and
(C)
identify the governmental and community agencies that will coordinate the program.
(c)
Use of funds
An eligible entity shall use a grant received under this section for—
(1)
expenses of a prescription drug disposal site, including materials and resources;
(2)
implementing disposal procedures and processes;
(3)
implementing community education strategies, including community education materials and resources;
(4)
replicating a prescription drug take back initiative throughout multiple jurisdictions; and
(5)
training of law enforcement officers and other community participants.
(d)
Grant amounts and duration
(1)
Maximum amount
The Attorney General may not award a grant under this section in an amount that exceeds $250,000.
(2)
Duration
The Attorney General shall award grants under this section for a period not to exceed 2 years.
(e)
Technical assistance grant
The Attorney General shall make a grant to provide technical assistance and training for an eligible entity receiving a grant under this section.
(f)
Evaluation
(1)
In general
The Attorney General shall make a grant for evaluation of the performance of each eligible entity receiving a grant under this section.
(2)
Reports
Each fiscal year, the recipient of a grant under this subsection shall submit to the Attorney General a report that evaluates—
(A)
the effectiveness of the prescription drug take back program of each eligible entity receiving a grant under this section; and
(B)
the effect of disposal efforts on drug circulation.
(3)
Public Availability
The Attorney General shall make the reports submitted under paragraph (2) publicly available on the public Internet website of the Attorney General.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020.
(h)
Definition of eligible entity
In this section, the term
eligible entity
means—
(1)
a State, local, or tribal law enforcement agency;
(2)
a manufacturer, distributor, or reverse distributor of prescription medications;
(3)
a retail pharmacy;
(4)
a registered narcotic treatment program;
(5)
a hospital or clinic with an on-site pharmacy;
(6)
an eligible long-term care facility; or
(7)
any other entity authorized by the Drug Enforcement Administration to dispose of prescription medications.
