118 SRES 137 ATS: Honoring the volunteers of the Coast Guard Ombudsman program on Ombudsman Appreciation Day.
U.S. Senate
2023-03-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 137
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 29, 2023
Ms. Cantwell
(for herself,
Mr. Cruz
,
Ms. Baldwin
, and
Mr. Sullivan
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Honoring the volunteers of the Coast Guard Ombudsman program on Ombudsman Appreciation Day.
Whereas the Coast Guard Ombudsman program was formally established by Admiral James S. Gracey, the 17th Commandant of the Coast Guard, to provide a link between the Coast Guard command and Coast Guard families through the engagement of spouses of members of the Coast Guard;
Whereas the leadership of Wanda Allen-Yearout for over 36 years helped establish and shape the Coast Guard Ombudsman program into the robust volunteer force it is today;
Whereas Ombudsman Appreciation Day is celebrated on March 26, 2023, to honor Coast Guard ombudsmen for the dedicated service they provide to the mission-ready workforce of the Coast Guard;
Whereas Coast Guard ombudsmen serve as volunteers—
(1)
providing information and referral resources; and
(2)
acting as advocates for the families of members of the Coast Guard;
Whereas the selfless Coast Guard ombudsmen volunteers are essential to the success of the Coast Guard, supporting families to enable service members and service commands to focus on mission requirements;
Whereas, in 2022, Coast Guard service members were helping the public and carrying out missions, and ombudsmen across the Coast Guard were helping by making over 350,000 contacts with, and volunteering more than 13,000 hours to assist, Coast Guard families;
Whereas, recognizing that military service involves sacrifices and difficulties with separation from family, frequent moves, new schools, and long distances from loved ones, Coast Guard ombudsmen respond to ensure military families are not alone by providing vital information to facilitate the transitions of those families to new assignments and to overcome family challenges;
Whereas Coast Guard ombudsmen were vital to supporting family members after the terrorist attacks on September 11th, 2001, the most extensive organizational transformation of the Coast Guard since World War II;
Whereas, as the Coast Guard responded to and rescued displaced people during Hurricane Katrina, Coast Guard ombudsmen, often consisting of spouses of Coast Guard rescuers and hurricane evacuees—
(1)
tracked and accounted for Coast Guard families;
(2)
rendered assistance; and
(3)
communicated vital evacuation information;
Whereas, during the COVID–19 pandemic, Coast Guard ombudsmen recognized challenges and ensured the operational readiness of the Coast Guard was maintained by providing direct support to Coast Guard families; and
Whereas, by volunteering on the home front, being available for Coast Guard families, and helping Coast Guard families obtain the resources and information necessary for success, Coast Guard ombudsmen help ensure that members of the Coast Guard and their families remain “Always Ready” to meet the needs of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
celebrates Ombudsman Appreciation Day and Coast Guard ombudsmen on March 26, 2023;
(2)
is grateful to the women and men who volunteer their time as Coast Guard ombudsmen to assist the families of members of the Coast Guard; and
(3)
congratulates the volunteers of the Coast Guard Ombudsman program on 37 years of service.
