118 SRES 333 IS: Designating 2024 as the Year of Democracy as a time to reflect on the contributions of the system of Government of the United States to a more free and stable world.
U.S. Senate
2023-09-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 333
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 7, 2023
Mr. Durbin
(for himself and
Mr. Grassley
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Designating 2024 as the Year of Democracy as a time to reflect on the contributions of the system of Government of the United States to a more free and stable world.
Whereas 2,000 years after the ancient Greeks laid the groundwork for democracy, the founders of the United States built an even greater system of Government, a democratic republic, propelling the United States to become the most advanced nation in human history;
Whereas the model of Government of the United States has been reproduced around the world;
Whereas Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln, respectively, described democracy as the
light that led us out of gothic darkness
and humankind’s
last best hope
;
Whereas recent life-threatening and life-altering attacks and threats against political figures and public servants speak loudly to the necessity of maintaining mutual respect and civility for the right of an opponent to advocate for or oppose policies;
Whereas the ardent pursuit of one’s policies is not diminished whatsoever by the exercise of respect and civility that assures the maintenance of our democracy and freedoms;
Whereas President John F. Kennedy said, we
must remember on both sides that civility is not a sign of weakness
;
Whereas, according to the 2022 Freedom House report, only about 20 percent of the global population now live in
free
countries;
Whereas the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights, including the addition of the Reconstruction Era amendments, enshrine the rights and civil liberties of the citizens of the United States, including the right to vote in free and fair elections;
Whereas the perpetuation of the ideals of democracy does not happen on its own and can be stalled or reversed;
Whereas surveys show citizens of the United States are losing faith in the democratic system;
Whereas former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor said,
The practice of democracy is not passed down through the gene pool. It must be taught and learned anew by each generation of citizens.
;
Whereas President Ronald Reagan said,
Democracy is worth dying for, because it’s the most deeply honorable form of government ever devised by man.
;
Whereas Congressman John R. Lewis said in his final words to the United States,
Democracy is not a state. It is an act, and each generation must do its part to help build what we called the Beloved Community, a nation and world society at peace with itself.
;
Whereas World War II demonstrated the fragility of democracy and the civilized life that accompanies democracy;
Whereas British Prime Minister Winston Churchill observed that,
Indeed it has been said that democracy is the worst form of Government except for all those other forms that have been tried from time to time …
;
Whereas President George Washington said the United States must recognize the immense value of the National Union and work towards preservation of that Union with
jealous anxiety
and wrote that the security of a free Constitution may be accomplished by
teaching the people themselves to know and to value their own rights
;
Whereas President Thomas Jefferson wrote,
Educate and inform the whole mass of the people … They are the only sure reliance for the preservation of our liberty.
; and
Whereas the Government of the United States must teach and educate the people by taking appropriate actions to highlight and emphasize the importance of democratic principles and civility in the freedoms and way of life enjoyed by the people of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates 2024 as the
Year of Democracy
;
(2)
encourages States and local governments to designate 2024 as the
Year of Democracy
;
(3)
recognizes the celebration of the
Year of Democracy
as a time to reflect on the contributions of the system of Government of the United States to a more free and stable world; and
(4)
encourages the people of the United States to observe the
Year of Democracy
with appropriate ceremonies and activities that—
(A)
provide appreciation for the system of Government of the United States;
(B)
demonstrate that the people of the United States shall never forget the sacrifices made by past generations of people of the United States to preserve the freedoms and principles of the United States; and
(C)
remind our citizens that those with differing political opinions are often their neighbors, fellow religious congregants, and extended family members with whom they share many life values and can respectfully disagree.
