118 SRES 444 IS: Providing for the en bloc consideration of military nominations.
U.S. Senate
2023-10-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 444
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 31, 2023
Mr. Reed
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
RESOLUTION
Providing for the en bloc consideration of military nominations.
1.
En bloc consideration of military nominations
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
military nomination
means a nomination to a position in, or promotion of an individual serving in a position in, an Armed Force.
(b)
Motion To proceed
(1)
In general
(A)
Authorization
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), during the 118th Congress, it shall be in order for the majority leader, or a designee, to make a single motion in Executive Session, or a single motion in Legislative Session to proceed to Executive Session, to the en bloc consideration of 2 or more military nominations that, at the time of the motion—
(i)
are pending on the Executive calendar or are on the Secretary’s Desk;
(ii)
have laid over 1 day, as required under paragraph 1 of rule XXXI of the Standing Rules of the Senate; and
(iii)
have been favorably reported to the Senate by the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
(B)
Exception
It shall not be in order to include in a motion under subparagraph (A) a nomination to—
(i)
a position described in section 151(a) of title 10, United States Code (relating to the membership of the Joint Chiefs of Staff); or
(ii)
a position as the commander of a combatant command established under section 161, 167, or 167b of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Consideration of motion
A motion to proceed under paragraph (1) shall not be debatable and shall not be divisible or subject to a point of order.
(c)
Consideration of military nominations
(1)
Cloture motion in order
If a motion to proceed to 2 or more military nominations under subsection (b)(1) is agreed to, the military nominations considered en bloc shall not be subject to division and it shall be in order for a Senator to present a single cloture motion to bring to a close debate on the military nominations, en bloc, signed in accordance with rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate.
(2)
Question
When, in accordance with rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Presiding Officer submits to the Senate by a yea-and-nay vote the question on a cloture motion presented under paragraph (1), the question shall be:
Is it the sense of the Senate that debate shall be brought to a close on the military nominations the Senate agreed to consider en bloc?
.
(3)
Vote threshold to invoke cloture
The question under paragraph (2) shall be decided by a majority of the Senators voting, a quorum being present.
(4)
Post cloture consideration
If cloture is invoked under paragraph (3), the military nominations being considered en bloc shall be the unfinished business to the exclusion of all other business until disposed of and there shall be no more than 2 hours of consideration of the military nominations being considered en bloc.
(5)
Vote on nominations
After no more than 2 hours of consideration of the military nominations under paragraph (4), the Senate shall vote, without any intervening action or debate, except a single quorum call on demand to establish the presence of a quorum (and motions required to establish a quorum), on the confirmation of the military nominations en bloc.
(6)
Disposing of nominations
Following confirmation of the military nominations en bloc under paragraph (5), the motion to reconsider the confirmation vote on the military nominations en bloc shall be considered made and laid upon the table and the President shall be immediately notified of the Senate’s action on the military nominations.
(d)
Multiple motions authorized
There shall be no limit on the number of motions in order under this resolution.
