118 SRES 430 ATS: Designating October 20, 2023, as “National Early Childhood Literacy Awareness Day”.
U.S. Senate
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 430
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 25, 2023
Mr. Manchin
(for himself,
Ms. Collins
,
Mrs. Capito
, and
Mr. King
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating October 20, 2023, as
National Early Childhood Literacy Awareness Day
.
Whereas many children from families with low incomes begin school already far behind children from families with higher incomes;
Whereas research shows that children from families with low incomes are less likely to have interactions that are critical for language development, including—
(1)
being read to or spoken to regularly;
(2)
having access to books;
(3)
having a literacy-rich environment; and
(4)
accessing high-quality early childhood education programs;
Whereas language development is an important precursor to literacy;
Whereas access to high-quality early childhood education programs can support early childhood language development and literacy;
Whereas, as early as 3 years of age, the vocabulary of a child can predict the future third-grade reading proficiency of the child;
Whereas, during the first 3 years of life, children from families with low-incomes can hear as many as 30,000,000 fewer words than children from more affluent families;
Whereas, in 2022, the National Assessment of Educational Progress (referred to in this preamble as
NAEP
) reported that—
(1)
66 percent of fourth-grade public school students nationally performed below the NAEP proficient level in reading; and
(2)
37 percent of fourth-grade public school students nationally performed below the NAEP basic level in reading; and
Whereas awareness of early childhood literacy issues must be heightened to encourage greater support to help children achieve reading proficiency: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates October 20, 2023, as
National Early Childhood Literacy Awareness Day
;
(2)
encourages States, localities, schools, early childhood education programs, and nonprofit organizations to observe the day with appropriate programs and activities, with the goal of increasing public awareness about early childhood literacy issues;
(3)
recognizes the need to make early childhood literacy a public priority;
(4)
supports the efforts of businesses, State and local governments, early childhood education programs, nonprofit organizations, educators, and volunteers dedicated to increasing childhood literacy rates;
(5)
applauds the initiatives of businesses, State and local governments, early childhood education programs, nonprofit organizations, educators, and volunteers that—
(A)
use time and resources to address early childhood literacy issues, the causes of poor reading scores, and potential solutions to those issues; and
(B)
work to promote the love of reading among children; and
(6)
encourages parents, other family members, and caregivers to introduce children to the world of books and other literacy activities in different ways, including by—
(A)
reading to children;
(B)
telling stories;
(C)
teaching letters and words; and
(D)
visiting libraries.
