118 SRES 109 IS: Requesting information on Saudi Arabia’s human rights practices pursuant to section 502B(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
U.S. Senate
2023-03-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 109
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 15, 2023
Mr. Murphy
(for himself,
Mr. Lee
, and
Mr. Durbin
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Requesting information on Saudi Arabia’s human rights practices pursuant to section 502B(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
1.
Request for information on Saudi Arabia’s human rights practices
(a)
Statement requested
The Senate requests that the Secretary of State, not later than 30 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, transmits to the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
, pursuant to section 502B(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2304(c)
), a statement regarding Saudi Arabia's human rights practices that has been prepared in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor and the Office of the Legal Adviser.
(b)
Elements
The statement submitted under subsection (a) should include—
(1)
all available credible information concerning alleged violations of internationally recognized human rights by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, including—
(A)
torture and inhuman treatment of detainees;
(B)
execution of people for nonviolent offenses;
(C)
discrimination against women;
(D)
severe restrictions on religious freedom;
(E)
forced disappearances;
(F)
transnational repression; and
(G)
the denial of the right to life in the context of the armed conflict in Yemen caused by indiscriminate or disproportionate operations;
(2)
a description of the steps that the United States Government has taken—
(A)
to promote respect for and observance of human rights as part of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s activities, including in the context of the armed conflict in Yemen;
(B)
to discourage any practices that are inimical to internationally recognized human rights; and
(C)
to publicly or privately call attention to, and disassociate the United States and any security assistance provided for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from, any practices described in subparagraph (B);
(3)
an assessment, notwithstanding any practices described in paragraph (2)(B), whether extraordinary circumstances exist that necessitate a continuation of security assistance for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia;
(4)
if such circumstances exist, a description of the circumstances and the extent to which security assistance should be continued (subject to such conditions as Congress may impose under section 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2304
)); and
(5)
other information, including—
(A)
an assessment from the Secretary of State of the likelihood that United States security assistance (as defined in section 502B(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2304(d)
)) will be used in support of Saudi activities related to the armed conflict in Yemen;
(B)
a description and assessment of the actions that the United States Government is taking to ensure end use monitoring protocols for all weapons sold or transferred to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for use in Yemen;
(C)
an assessment of any impact or adverse effect to Israel’s qualitative military edge of security assistance provided by the United States or other countries;
(D)
a description of any actions that the United States Government is taking to address allegations of detention, torture, or forced disappearances of United States citizens by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia;
(E)
a description of any actions that the United States Government is taking to deter incidents of intimidation or harassment by the Government of Saudi Arabia against United States citizens, individuals in the United States, and their family members who are not United States citizens, whether living in Saudi Arabia or in the United States; and
(F)
a description of any actions that the United States Government is taking to prevent the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from aiding Saudi citizens accused of violent crimes in the United States to flee from the United States.
