118 SRES 205 IS: Supporting the designation of May 10, 2023, as “National Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Mental Health Day”.
U.S. Senate
2023-05-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 205
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 10, 2023
Ms. Hirono
(for herself,
Mr. Booker
,
Mr. Brown
,
Ms. Cantwell
,
Ms. Cortez Masto
,
Ms. Duckworth
,
Mr. Fetterman
,
Mrs. Gillibrand
,
Mr. Padilla
,
Ms. Rosen
,
Mr. Schatz
,
Ms. Warren
, and
Mr. Wyden
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of May 10, 2023, as
National Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Mental Health Day
.
Whereas the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (referred to in this preamble as
AANHPI
) community is among the fastest growing population groups in the United States and has made significant economic, cultural, and social contributions;
Whereas the AANHPI community is extremely diverse in terms of socioeconomic levels, education, employment, languages, cultures of origin, acculturation, migrant status, and colonization status;
Whereas, in 2021, 77 percent of the estimated 2,600,000 AANHPI individuals who meet criteria for a mental health problem did not receive treatment;
Whereas, in 2021, only 24.5 percent of Asian adults with a mental health problem received mental health services in the past year, and Asian adults have the lowest rates of utilization of mental health services out of any racial population;
Whereas, from 2018 to 2020, AANHPI youth 10 to 24 years of age were the only racial or ethnic population in this age category whose leading cause of death was suicide;
Whereas it is imperative to disaggregate AANHPI population data to get an accurate representation of the depth and breadth of the mental health issues for each subpopulation so that specific culturally and linguistically appropriate solutions can be developed;
Whereas language access continues to be a critical issue for AANHPI individuals seeking mental health services, whether due to the limited number of providers with the necessary language skills to provide in-language services or the significant language loss faced by Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities due to colonization;
Whereas there is a need to significantly increase the number of providers, including paraprofessionals, representing AANHPI communities and providing them with the necessary training and ongoing support;
Whereas historical discrimination and current racial violence toward AANHPI individuals increases trauma and stress, underlying precursors to mental health problems;
Whereas there is a critical need to raise awareness about and improve mental health literacy among the AANHPI community to reduce the stigma associated with mental health issues; and
Whereas May is both National Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, an opportunity to celebrate the vast contributions of this population to the United States, and National Mental Health Awareness Month, recognizing the importance of mental health to the well-being and health of AANHPI families and communities and connecting the importance of one's cultural heritage to good mental health: Now, therefore be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the designation of May 10, 2023, as
National Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Mental Health Day
;
(2)
recognizes the importance of mental health to the well-being and health of families and communities;
(3)
acknowledges the importance of raising awareness about mental health and improving the quality of care for Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities;
(4)
recognizes that celebrating cultural and linguistic heritage is beneficial to mental health; and
(5)
encourages Federal, State, and local health agencies to adopt laws, policies, and guidance to improve help-seeking rates for mental health services for the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander community and other communities of color.
