114 SRES 54 IS: Expressing support for the designation of March 2023 as “Music in Our Schools Month”.
U.S. Senate
2023-02-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 54
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
February 9, 2023
Mr. Booker
(for himself,
Ms. Duckworth
,
Mr. Padilla
, and
Mr. Tester
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of March 2023 as
Music in Our Schools Month
.
Whereas music has been present in every known human culture throughout history and modern times;
Whereas music is one of the most important manifestations of the cultural heritage of the United States, as music embodies our national identity and illustrates our shared history;
Whereas music education helps communities share ideas and values among cultures and generations, promoting a more cooperative and inclusive citizenry;
Whereas singing has existed in classrooms in the United States since before the signing of the Declaration of Independence;
Whereas, in 1838, music as its own curriculum was first adopted by public authority in the public schools of Boston, Massachusetts;
Whereas the development of a musical people has been and remains dependent on a public commitment to the teaching of music in all schools;
Whereas State legislatures and educational agencies have supported music as part of the regular school curriculum;
Whereas the Every Student Succeeds Act (
Public Law 114–95
; 129 Stat. 1802) identified music as part of a well-rounded education;
Whereas music is a means for exploring the emotional and aesthetic dimensions of the human experience;
Whereas music holds intrinsic value as an art form, providing opportunity for self-expression, fellowship, and spiritual fulfillment;
Whereas research has documented that participation in school music programs promotes student engagement, leading to improved social and academic outcomes, particularly for at-risk students;
Whereas research has documented that participation in school music programs also promotes cognitive, social, and emotional development, exercising skills valuable to the workforce such as motivation, attentiveness, self-discipline, teamwork, persistence, empathy, respect, and leadership; and
Whereas students attending public school in urban or rural communities, public schools with a high percentage of students from low-income families, and public schools that are majority Black, Hispanic, or Native American, experience the most inequity in access to music education: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the designation of
Music in Our Schools Month
; and
(2)
recognizes—
(A)
the fundamental importance of music to the culture of the United States;
(B)
the long history of music as an integral part of the schools in the United States;
(C)
the disparate access to high-quality music education that exists across the United States; and
(D)
the need to do more to support the teaching and learning of music in public schools.
