118 SRES 476 ATS: Supporting the goals and ideals of a National Move Over Law Day.
U.S. Senate
2023-11-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 476
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 28, 2023
Mr. Blumenthal
(for himself,
Mr. Braun
,
Ms. Duckworth
,
Mrs. Fischer
,
Mr. Warner
,
Mr. Luján
, and
Mr. Whitehouse
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of a National Move Over Law Day.
Whereas the Senate wishes to recognize traffic incident management responders (as described in the Traffic Incident Management Handbook of the Federal Highway Administration), which include law enforcement officers, fire and rescue personnel, emergency medical services personnel, tow truck operators, and transportation workers;
Whereas many traffic incident management responders are seriously injured or lose their lives while performing their duties each year as a result of being struck by speeding, impaired, or distracted motorists and motorists who are not aware of move over laws;
Whereas, in 2022, 50 traffic incident management responders were killed in the United States due to roadside collisions;
Whereas the Federal Highway Administration, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the Department of Transportation host the Crash Responder Safety Week annually in November as part of a national effort to—
(1)
protect traffic incident management responders who are at the scene of highway crashes; and
(2)
remind the public of their responsibility to slow down, move over, and stay alert when driving near roadside incidents involving traffic incident management responders;
Whereas each State has a move over law, which has correlated directly with a safer environment along the roadsides of the United States for traffic incident management responders and stranded travelers;
Whereas move over laws generally require motorists to move at least 1 lane over when there is an emergency or rescue activity taking place on the shoulder or side of the roadway, or, if unable to do so safely, to slow down and pass the scene with caution;
Whereas the Government Accountability Office report entitled
Emergency Responder Safety: States and DOT Are Implementing Actions to Reduce Roadside Crashes
(GAO–21–166) noted that State officials cite raising public awareness as the most prevalent challenge to move over laws; and
Whereas providing traffic incident management responders with an enhanced opportunity to inform the motoring public about move over laws is critical to the public safety: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of a National Move Over Law Day; and
(2)
urges national, State, and regional incident management organizations—
(A)
to spread awareness and promote the existence of, and adherence to, State move over laws; and
(B)
to educate the public further on the dangers and loss of life that occur if State move over laws are not faithfully observed.
