118 SRES 285 IS: To provide for the approval of final regulations relating to Federal service labor-management relations that are applicable to the Senate and the employees of the Senate, and that were issued by the Office of Compliance, now known as the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, on August 19, 1996, and for other purposes.
U.S. Senate
2023-06-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 285
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 22, 2023
Mr. Brown
(for himself,
Mr. Markey
,
Ms. Klobuchar
,
Mr. Sanders
,
Ms. Warren
,
Mr. Merkley
,
Mr. Welch
,
Ms. Smith
,
Mr. Booker
,
Mrs. Gillibrand
,
Mr. Heinrich
,
Mr. Padilla
,
Mr. Whitehouse
,
Ms. Stabenow
,
Mr. Fetterman
,
Mr. Peters
,
Mr. Blumenthal
,
Ms. Hirono
,
Ms. Baldwin
, and
Mr. Casey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
RESOLUTION
To provide for the approval of final regulations relating to Federal service labor-management relations that are applicable to the Senate and the employees of the Senate, and that were issued by the Office of Compliance, now known as the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, on August 19, 1996, and for other purposes.
That the following regulations issued by the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights on August 19, 1996, are hereby approved:
ADOPTED REGULATIONS
E
Covered employees in certain employing offices
2472
Certain employing offices
2472.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations contained in this subchapter implement the provisions of chapter 71 as applied by section 220 of the CAA to covered employees in the following employing offices:
(A)
the personal office of any Senator;
(B)
a standing select, special, permanent, temporary, or other committee of the Senate, or a joint committee of Congress that employs an employee of the Senate (with respect to such an employee);
(C)
the Office of the Vice President (as President of the Senate), the Office of the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Office of the Majority Leader of the Senate, the Office of the Minority Leader of the Senate, the Office of the Majority Whip of the Senate, the Office of the Minority Whip of the Senate, the Conference of the Majority of the Senate, the Conference of the Minority of the Senate, the Office of the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority of the Senate, the Office of the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority of the Senate, the Office of the Secretary for the Majority of the Senate, the Office of the Secretary for the Minority of the Senate, the Majority Policy Committee of the Senate, the Minority Policy Committee of the Senate, and the following offices within the Office of the Secretary of the Senate: Offices of the Parliamentarian, Bill Clerk, Legislative Clerk, Journal Clerk, Executive Clerk, Enrolling Clerk, Official Reporters of Debate, Daily Digest, Printing Services, Captioning Services, and Senate Chief Counsel for Employment;
(D
the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate and the Office of the Senate Legal Counsel;
(E)
the offices of any caucus or party organization that employs an employee of the Senate (with respect to such an employee); and
(F)
the Executive Office of the Secretary of the Senate, the Office of Senate Security, the Senate Disbursing Office, and the Administrative Office of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate.
2472.2
Application of chapter 71.
(a)
The requirements and exemptions of chapter 71, as made applicable by section 220 of the CAA, shall apply to covered employees who are employed in the offices listed in section 2472.1 in the same manner and to the same extent as those requirements and exemptions are applied to other covered employees.
(b)
The regulations of the Office, as set forth at parts 2420–29 and 2470–71, shall apply to the employing offices listed in section 2472.1, covered employees who are employed in those offices, and representatives of those employees.
2472.3
Definitions.
In this subchapter:
(1)
The terms
CAA
,
chapter 71
, and
employing office
have the meanings given the terms in sections 2421.1 through 2421.3, respectively.
(2)
The terms
covered employee
and
employee of the Senate
have the meanings given the terms in section 101 of the CAA (
2 U.S.C. 1301
).
