118 SRES 310 IS: Recognizing the Motorcycle Safety Foundation for 50 years of safety education.
U.S. Senate
2023-07-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 310
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 25, 2023
Mr. Peters
(for himself,
Mr. Johnson
,
Mr. Budd
,
Ms. Ernst
,
Mr. Tillis
, and
Mr. Casey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the Motorcycle Safety Foundation for 50 years of safety education.
Whereas, in 1973, the Motorcycle Safety Foundation began creating the first motorcycle rider safety training curriculum in the United States;
Whereas the Motorcycle Safety Foundation is a nonprofit organization providing motorcycle rider training and education;
Whereas the Motorcycle Safety Foundation meets the needs of motorcycle riders by continuing to create courses for the most popular bikes on the road and on the trail, including the hands-on Adventure Bike Rider Course and the Dirtbike School courses, that enable motorcycle riders to get the most out of their bikes;
Whereas new and experienced riders can benefit from learning basic motorcycle controls, safe-riding habits, and street strategies in a comprehensive, research-based curriculum created by the Motorcycle Safety Foundation;
Whereas 10,000,000 motorcyclists have taken the Basic Rider Course taught by Motorcycle Safety Foundation rider coaches in the last 50 years;
Whereas 46 States and the Armed Forces use Motorcycle Safety Foundation curriculum as their motorcycle license waiver course;
Whereas nearly 10,000 rider coaches teach Motorcycle Safety Foundation curriculum at 2,700 training sites across the United States; and
Whereas the efforts of the Motorcycle Safety Foundation are aimed at making the roadways of the United States safer for both motorcycle riders and non-riders: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate recognizes the Motorcycle Safety Foundation for 50 years of safety education and improving the ride for motorcycle riders across the United States.
