1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increase Reliable Services Now Act
.
2.
Temporary prohibition on additional tax enforcement personnel
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Internal Revenue Service may not hire any person for the purpose of conducting enforcement activities during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the first date after such date on which—
(1)
the Internal Revenue Service has maintained, for 6 consecutive months—
(A)
a level of service for accounts management phone lines of not less than 70 percent; and
(B)
an average speed of answering calls in 5 minutes or less; and
(2)
not less than 90 percent of the regular employees of the Internal Revenue Service perform work in person at their job sites.
(b)
Enforcement activities
For purposes of this section, the term
enforcement activities
means activities described in section 10301(a)(1)(A)(ii) of
Public Law 117–169
.
3.
Prohibition on use of additional Internal Revenue Service funds for taxpayer audits
Section 10301(a)(1)((A)(ii) of
Public Law 117–169
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
:
Provided further
, That the Internal Revenue Service shall not audit taxpayers with taxable incomes below $400,000 at a greater rate than such taxpayers were audited for the most recent taxable year beginning before the date of the enactment of this Act
.
4.
Temporary prohibition on Internal Revenue Service hiring
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Internal Revenue Service may not hire any person (other than for activities related to return processing and call center operations) during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the first date after such date on which the Internal Revenue Service meets the requirements of subsection (b).
(b)
Requirements
The requirements specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
With respect to the processing of taxpayer correspondence, tax forms, and payments, the Internal Revenue Service has a backlog not in excess of 1,000,000 cases.
(2)
With respect to tax returns eligible for a refund, refunds are issued to taxpayers on average within six weeks or less of the receipt of the return.
