1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Colombia Assistance Used Transparently by Institutionalizing Oversight Now Act of 2022
or the
CAUTION Act
.
2.
Certification requirements for civil and military assistance to Colombia
(a)
Conditions on civil and military assistance
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no civil or military assistance to Colombia may be obligated or expended unless the Secretary of State certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that, during the reporting period, the Government of Colombia—
(1)
has not sought to erode cooperation with the United States in the areas of military, intelligence, and counter-terrorism;
(2)
is asserting its sovereignty against the Governments of Cuba, Iran, Nicaragua, the People’s Republic of China, and Venezuela, including by denying all access to military or intelligence infrastructure to those governments;
(3)
has not taken significant steps to recognize, legitimize, or engage any foreign terrorist organization; and
(4)
has not interfered with the Special Jurisdiction for Peace’s efforts to investigate and, as appropriate, sentence current or former members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia who committed acts of terrorism or gross violations of human rights.
(b)
Additional conditions on civil assistance
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no civil assistance to Colombia may be obligated or expended unless the Secretary of State certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that, during the reporting period, in addition to meeting the conditions described under subsection (a), the Government of Colombia—
(1)
is guaranteeing the rights, freedoms, and responsibilities enshrined in the Colombian Constitution of 1991, including—
(A)
freedom of expression;
(B)
freedom of the press;
(C)
the guarantee of due process;
(D)
the right to private property and other rights acquired in accordance with civil laws; and
(E)
protections against coercion of citizens voting in elections;
(2)
is significantly cooperating with the United States Government to—
(A)
reduce irregular migration, improve border security, and combat human smuggling and trafficking;
(B)
target the cultivation, production, processing, trafficking, distribution, commercialization, financing, and selling of illicit drugs, including opioids and cocaine; and
(C)
counter the activities of criminal gangs and transnational criminal organizations;
(3)
is taking steps to ensure transparency and prevent corruption related to efforts by the Chinese Communist Party or the Government of the People’s Republic of China to acquire or invest in Colombian energy or raw materials sectors; and
(4)
has not interfered in the transparency, operation, or independence of the Office of the Inspector General of Colombia.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Civil assistance
The term
civil assistance
means development assistance, International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE) program assistance, and Economic Support Fund assistance.
(3)
Military assistance
The term
military assistance
means foreign military financing (FMF), International Military and Education Training (IMET), and Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining, and Related Programs (NADR) assistance.
(4)
Foreign terrorist organizations
The term
foreign terrorist organization
means an organization designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
) or Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
(5)
Reporting time period
The term
reporting time period
means since August 7, 2022, or the previous 12 months, whichever is less.
4.
Termination and sunset
The restrictions imposed by this Act shall terminate on the date on which the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that Colombia has conducted a free and fair election after the date of the enactment of this Act.
