1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alaska Trails Act
.
2.
Designation of the Chilkoot National Historic Trail
Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (
16 U.S.C. 1244(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(31)
Chilkoot National Historic Trail
(A)
In general
The Chilkoot National Historic Trail, a traditional gold rush route of approximately 16.5 miles within the Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, as generally depicted on the map entitled
Proposed Chilkoot National Historic Trail
, numbered KLGO–461–173787, and dated October 2020.
(B)
Availability of map
The map described in subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
(C)
Administration
The Chilkoot National Historic Trail shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior.
(D)
Effect
The designation of the Chilkoot National Historic Trail shall not affect any authorities under
Public Law 94–323
(
16 U.S.C. 410bb
et seq.).
(E)
Coordination of activities
The Secretary of the Interior may coordinate with public and nongovernmental organizations and institutions of higher education in the United States and Canada, Alaska Native Corporations, and, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Government of Canada and any political subdivisions of the Government of Canada for the purposes of—
(i)
exchanging information and research relating to the Chilkoot National Historic Trail;
(ii)
supporting the preservation of, and educational programs relating to, the Chilkoot National Historic Trail;
(iii)
providing technical assistance with respect to the Chilkoot National Historic Trail; and
(iv)
working to establish an international historic trail incorporating the Chilkoot National Historic Trail that provides for complementary preservation and education programs in the United States and Canada.
.
3.
Alaska Long National Scenic Trail Study
Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (
16 U.S.C. 1244(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(48)
Alaska Long Trail
(A)
In general
The Alaska Long Trail, extending approximately 500 miles from Seward, Alaska, to Fairbanks, Alaska.
(B)
Requirement
The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management (referred to in this paragraph as the
Secretary
), shall study the feasibility of designating the trail described in subparagraph (A).
(C)
Consultation
The Secretary shall conduct the study under this paragraph in consultation with—
(i)
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service;
(ii)
the State of Alaska;
(iii)
units of local government in the State of Alaska;
(iv)
Alaska Native Corporations; and
(v)
representatives of the private sector, including any entity that holds a permit issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
.
