Whereas the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States (referred to in this preamble as the
Supreme Court
) in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), was a blatant act of judicial activism that invented a constitutional right to abortion out of whole cloth, with no grounding in the text of the Constitution of the United States;
Whereas more than 63,000,000 babies have been aborted in the United States since the decision of the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade;
Whereas the decision in Roe v. Wade caused great damage to the democratic system of the United States by preventing citizens of the United States from making decisions about the legality of abortion and instead putting these decisions in the hands of unelected Federal judges;
Whereas, far from settling the issue of abortion in the United States, the decision of the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade has exacerbated social tensions, inflamed the politics of the United States, disrupted the democratic processes of the United States, and divided the people of the United States;
Whereas, in the aftermath of the decision of the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade, millions of volunteers, nonpartisan organizations, and lawmakers came together with a shared voice to stand up for the rights of the unborn, who are the most vulnerable among us;
Whereas these supporters of the pro-life movement come from diverse backgrounds, with the shared goal of building a society that celebrates, protects, and cherishes life at all stages;
Whereas the pro-life movement has worked tirelessly over the last 5 decades to reverse the legally unsound and destructive ruling in Roe v. Wade and to ensure that the human dignity of every person is protected by law, regardless of age, background, or belief;
Whereas the work of the pro-life movement has been more than simply advocating for the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade and often occurs behind the scenes, with little recognition of the time and talent that countless individuals have invested in the effort to protect life;
Whereas millions of people in the United States have contributed to the cultivation of a culture of life in the United States by marching for life on the streets of cities in the United States, engaging in sidewalk counseling outside abortion clinics, providing resources for expectant mothers, raising money and volunteering their time for crisis pregnancy centers, adopting and fostering children, advocating for life-affirming legislation in every State, and submitting amicus briefs in abortion-related cases at the State and Federal level;
Whereas, on June 24, 2022, the Supreme Court issued its decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, No. 19–1392, 2022 WL 2276808 (2022), which overturned Roe v. Wade and affirmed that there is no Federal constitutional right to an abortion;
Whereas the decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization represents a historic victory for the sanctity of life and for the millions of people in the United States who have worked diligently over the last 5 decades to foster a culture of life in the United States;
Whereas the decision of the Supreme Court in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization does not ban abortion but instead recognizes that under the constitutional system of the United States, the power and the duty to decide whether to permit or limit abortions lies with the States, not unelected Federal judges;
Whereas, as the late Justice Scalia recognized 3 decades ago in his dissent in Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833 (1992), “The permissibility of abortion, and the limitations upon it, are to be resolved like most important questions in our democracy: by citizens trying to persuade one another and then voting.”; and
Whereas the decision of the Supreme Court in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization returns the issue of abortion back to the States, for the people of each State to debate and then vote: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the pro-life movement and the millions of individuals who have stood up for life over the last nearly 50 years on this historic victory in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization;
(2)
celebrates the courage, compassion, and commitment of the millions of individuals, nonpartisan organizations, and lawmakers who have advocated for life and labored tirelessly to overturn Roe v. Wade;
(3)
lauds the Supreme Court of the United States for the decision to return to the original understanding of the Constitution of the United States and recognize that there is no Federal constitutional right to an abortion;
(4)
recognizes the uniqueness of the political system of the United States, in which our States function as laboratories of democracy, enabling citizens to debate issues like abortion in the public square and make their voices heard by voting;
(5)
affirms the commitment of Congress to ensuring the safety of supporters of the pro-life movement, including lawful demonstrators, volunteers, religious clergy, and crisis pregnancy center personnel, as they continue to advocate for the sanctity of every human life in all 50 States; and
(6)
condemns all threats and incidents of violence fueled by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization and affirms the commitment of Congress to ensuring the safety of justices of the Supreme Court, their law clerks, other State and Federal judges and their law clerks, members of Congress, and State lawmakers.
