Whereas, an Executive Order of  , of President   directed that certain historical archives in  , known as  , being the papers of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , be transferred from   to the custody of the Library of Congress by authority of the Act approved  , entitled, "An Act making appropriations for the legislative, executive and judicial expenses of the government for  , and for other purposes";

And whereas, the said order authorized the Secretary of   to retain such papers in each of the collections enumerated above as in his discretion might be required for the continuity and completeness of the records and archives of  ;

And whereas, the Secretary of   has represented that certain of the papers retained at that time and certain other historical papers now in his custody are not needed for the use of his Department, and recommends that they be transferred to  , to become a part of the historical papers which now constitute the collections in   of the Library of  ;

It is hereby order that the following papers be transferred from   to the possession and custody of the Library of Congress, to be there preserved and rendered accessible for historical and other legitimate uses, under such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by  1. The  , Acts and Proceedings of the Convention which framed the Constitution of the United States.

2.   ratified  .

3.   draft of the Declaration of Independence.

4. Papers of  , a detailed list of which is hereunto appended.

5. Certain papers of  , a detailed list of which is hereunto appended.

6. Certain papers of  , a detailed list of which is hereunto appended.

 

 ,  .

STATEMENT BY STATE DEPARTMENT

 .

Secretary   has been impressed with the fact that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States which are now deposited with   are not in a place of such absolute safety as the importance of the documents requires, as the   building is always subject to fire risk. Moreover,   has no exhibition room and has been unable for   to exhibit these documents under satisfactory conditions, although nearly all visitors to   desire to see them. It has seemed that the Library of   is the most suitable place for the preservation and exhibition of these muniments, that building being of modern fireproof construction with appropriate exhibition halls and the manuscripts which are in its custody being in charge of expert archivists. On the recommendation of the Secretary of  , President   has signed an executive order as follows:

The original engrossed Declaration of Independence and the original engrossed Constitution of  , now in  , are, by authority provided by the Act of   entitled "An Act making appropriations for the legislative, executive and judicial expenses of the Government for  , and for other purposes," approved  , hereby ordered to be transferred from   to the custody of the Library of Congress, to be there preserved and exhibited under such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by  .

This order is issued at the request of the Secretary of  , who has no suitable place for the exhibition of these muniments and whose building is believed to be not as safe a depository for them as  , and for the additional reason that it is desired to satisfy the laudable wish of patriotic   to have an opportunity to see the original fundamental documents upon which rest their Independence and their Government.

Secretary  ' letter to the President recommending the transfer was accompanied by a brief history of these documents. It showed that on  ,  , Secretary of  , having resigned his office, deposited the papers with Mr.  , who had been deputy secretary of the  , and who, at General  's request, took charge of them until   was created by the Act of   IS,  . They have been officially in the custody of the Secretary of   ever since that date. It appears, however, that they have not been continuously in the physical custody of the Secretary of  .

On  , just before the capture of   by the  , the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the other records of the   were taken away from   and put in an unoccupied grist mill belonging to  , situated on the   side of the Potomac River, a short distance from  , two miles above  . On  , for greater safety, all the papers were moved to  , twenty-five miles farther away, and placed in an empty house, where they were locked up and the keys intrusted to the Reverend Mr.  , who was then, or had been, a collector of  . There the papers remained for  , not being brought back to   until the   fleet had left the Chesapeake. In  , when   (which was then a part of  ) went into a new building which was supposed to be fireproof (which was burned some thirty-five years later), the Declaration of Independence was put in that building and there it remained until  , except for   from  , to  , when it was in Independence Hall at  . It was transferred in   from   to  , which had recently been moved to the building which it now occupies.
