113 SCON 30 ATS: Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an adjournment of the House of Representatives.
U.S. Senate
2013-12-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. CON. RES. 30
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 20, 2013
Mr. Durbin
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was considered and agreed to
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an adjournment of the House of Representatives.
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns
on any day from Friday, December 20, 2013, through Tuesday, December 31, 2013,
on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority
Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 11:45 a.m. on
Friday, January 3, 2014, or
until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent
resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House adjourns on any
legislative day from Monday, December 23, 2013, through Tuesday, December 31,
2013, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its
Majority Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 11:00 a.m. on Friday,
January 3, 2014, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 3 of
this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
2.
(a)
The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, after
consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the Senate to
reassemble at such place and time he may designate if, in his opinion,
the public interest shall warrant it.
(b)
After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by the Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
3.
(a) The Speaker or his designee, after
consultation with the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify the Members of the House to
reassemble at such place and time he may designate if, in his opinion,
the public interest shall warrant it.
(b)
After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by the Speaker or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
