113 SCON 28 ATS: Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an adjournment of the House of Representatives.
U.S. Senate
2013-11-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. CON. RES. 28
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED
STATES
November 21, 2013
Mr. Reid
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was considered and agreed to
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Providing for a conditional adjournment or
recess of the Senate and an adjournment of the House of Representatives.
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns
on any day from Thursday, November 21, 2013, through Friday, December 6, 2013,
on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority
Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on
Monday, December 9, 2013, or such other time on that day as may be specified
by its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, or
until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 or section 3 of this concurrent
resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House adjourns on any
legislative day from Thursday, November 21, 2013, through Tuesday, November 26,
2013, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its
Majority Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday,
December 2, 2013, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of
this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
2.
The Majority Leader of the Senate and the
Speaker of the House, or their respective designees, acting jointly after
consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leader of
the House, shall notify the Members of the Senate and House, respectively, to
reassemble at such place and time as they may designate if, in their opinion,
the public interest shall warrant it.
3.
After the House reassembles pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution, the Majority Leader of the Senate after consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the Senate to reassemble whenever, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
