1.
Credible fear interviews
Section 235(b)(1)(B)(v) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)(B)(v)
) is amended by striking
claim
and all that follows, and inserting
claim, as determined pursuant to section 208(b)(1)(B)(iii), and such other facts as are known to the officer, that the alien could establish eligibility for asylum under section 208, and it is more probable than not that the statements made by, and on behalf of, the alien in support of the alien’s claim are true.
.
2.
Jurisdiction of asylum applications
Section 208(b)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1158
) is amended by striking subparagraph (C).
3.
Recording expedited removal and credible fear interviews
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish quality assurance procedures and take steps to effectively ensure that questions by employees of the Department of Homeland Security exercising expedited removal authority under section 235(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)
) are asked in a uniform manner, to the extent possible, and that both these questions and the answers provided in response to them are recorded in a uniform fashion.
(b)
Factors relating to sworn statements
Where practicable, any sworn or signed written statement taken of an alien as part of the record of a proceeding under section 235(b)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)(A)
) shall be accompanied by a recording of the interview which served as the basis for that sworn statement.
(c)
Interpreters
The Secretary shall ensure that a competent interpreter, not affiliated with the government of the country from which the alien may claim asylum, is used when the interviewing officer does not speak a language understood by the alien.
(d)
Recordings in immigration proceedings
There shall be an audio or audio visual recording of interviews of aliens subject to expedited removal. The recording shall be included in the record of proceeding and shall be considered as evidence in any further proceedings involving the alien.
(e)
No private right of action
Nothing in this section shall be construed to create any right, benefit, trust, or responsibility, whether substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity by a party against the United States, its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any person, nor does this section create any right of review in any administrative, judicial, or other proceeding.
