1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transparency in Federal Buildings Projects Act of 2019
.
2.
Public availability of building project information
(a)
In general
Chapter 33
of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
3318.
Availability of Federal building project information
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, and, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis thereafter, the Administrator shall make publicly available on a subpage of the website of the General Services Administration all prospectuses submitted pursuant to sections 3307 and 3316, and associated information subject to the following requirements:
(1)
The Administrator shall maintain such information in an easily accessible and readable, organized, downloadable, and searchable format.
(2)
The Administrator shall ensure the information is current and prospectuses and associated information updated on a regular basis.
(3)
The information required under this section shall be inclusive for a period of not less than 10 years.
(4)
The information shall include—
(A)
the last date on which the relevant webpage was updated;
(B)
approval dates of respective authorizing resolutions by each committee of jurisdiction, if applicable;
(C)
copies of respective committee of jurisdiction resolutions authorizing such prospectuses, as appropriate;
(D)
cross-references to any resubmitted or amended prospectuses and associated resolutions; and
(E)
such other information as determined by the Administrator.
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Prospectus
The term
prospectus
means prospectuses, building surveys, and factsheets submitted to the committees of jurisdiction pursuant to sections 3307 and 3316.
(2)
Committees of jurisdiction
The term
committees of jurisdiction
means the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.
(3)
Associated information
The term
associated information
means resolutions approved by the committees of jurisdiction and other information as required pursuant to subsection (a).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of chapters for
chapter 33
of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
3318. Availability of Federal building project information.
.
