1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cyber Navigators for Elections Act
.
2.
Payments by Election Assistance Commission to States for services of cyber navigators
(a)
Availability of grants
Subtitle D of title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21001
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
7
Payments for Obtaining Services of Cyber Navigators
297.
Payments for obtaining services of cyber navigators
(a)
Availability and use of payments
The Commission shall make a payment to each eligible State to obtain services of cyber navigators who will provide election officials of the jurisdictions of the State which administer elections for Federal office with access to risk management, resiliency, and technical support services in the administration of such elections.
(b)
Schedule of payments
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this part (but in no event later than 6 months thereafter), and not less frequently than once each calendar year thereafter, the Commission shall make payments under this part.
297A.
Amount of payment
(a)
In general
The amount of a payment made to an eligible State or an eligible unit of local government for a year under this part shall be determined by the Commission.
(b)
Continuing availability of funds after appropriation
A payment made to an eligible State or eligible unit of local government under this part shall be available without fiscal year limitation.
297B.
Requirements for eligibility
(a)
Application
Each State that desires to receive a payment under this part for a fiscal year shall submit an application for the payment to the Commission at such time and in such manner and containing such information as the Commission shall require.
(b)
Contents of application
Each application submitted under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
describe the activities for which assistance under this part is sought; and
(2)
provide such additional information and certifications as the Commission determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
297C.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under this part $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
297D.
Reports
(a)
Reports by recipients
Not later than the 6 months after the end of each fiscal year for which an eligible State received a payment under this part, the State shall submit a report to the Commission on the activities conducted with the funds provided during the year.
(b)
Reports by Commission to committees
With respect to each fiscal year for which the Commission makes payments under this part, the Commission shall submit a report on the activities carried out under this part to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subtitle D of title II the following:
Part 7—Payments for Obtaining Services of Cyber Navigators
Sec. 297. Payments for obtaining services of cyber navigators.
Sec. 297A. Amount of payment.
Sec. 297B. Requirements for eligibility.
Sec. 297C. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 297D. Reports.
.
