1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Repatriation Assistance Act of 2019
.
2.
Provision of homeland security assistance to foreign governments for certain foreign country operations
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 231
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
437.
Homeland security assistance
(a)
In general
The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may provide to a foreign government financial assistance for foreign country operations to address individuals who may pose a national security, border security, or terrorist threat to the United States before such a threat reaches the United States.
(b)
Determination
Assistance provided under subsection (a) may be provided if such assistance would enhance the recipient government’s capacity to mitigate a threat described in such subsection, including through related detention or removal operations by the recipient government and procedures to screen and provide protection for certain individuals, as appropriate.
(c)
Reimbursement of expenses
The Secretary may, if appropriate, seek reimbursement from the receiving foreign government for the provision of financial assistance under this section.
(d)
Effective period
The authority provided under this section shall remain in effect until September 30, 2023.
(e)
Development and program execution
The Secretary and the Secretary of State shall jointly develop and implement any financial assistance under this section.
(f)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed as affecting, augmenting, or diminishing the authority of the Secretary of State.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by striking the items relating to sections 435 and 436 and adding the following new items:
Sec. 435. Maritime operations coordination plan.
Sec. 436. Maritime security capabilities assessments.
Sec. 437. Homeland security assistance.
.
