1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
RPPA Commercial Recreation Concessions Pilot Program Act of 2019
.
2.
Commercial recreation concessions pilot program
The Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
Recreation and Public Purposes Act
) (
43 U.S.C. 869
et seq.), is amended by adding at the end the following:
7.
Commercial recreation concessions pilot program
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act (including regulations), not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a pilot program to authorize commercial recreation concessions on land patented or leased under this Act.
(b)
Concessions agreements
(1)
In general
In carrying out the pilot program established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall enter into not more than 10 agreements with parties to whom the land described in subsection (a) has been patented or leased for the establishment of commercial recreation concessions on the land covered by the agreement.
(2)
Term
(A)
In general
An agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall be for a period that is consistent with the period of time required to amortize the capital investment made under the agreement but in any case not longer than 20 years.
(B)
Extension
On a finding of satisfactory performance, the Secretary may extend the term of an agreement for 1 additional period equal in length to the initial term.
(3)
Third-Party agreements
(A)
In general
A party to an agreement entered into under paragraph (1) may enter into agreements with third parties for the establishment of commercial recreation concessions pursuant to the agreement entered into under paragraph (1).
(B)
Term
An agreement entered into under subparagraph (A) shall not be for a period that is longer than the term of the agreement entered into under paragraph (1).
(c)
Use of funds
A party to an agreement entered into under subsection (b)(1) shall not be required to use revenue collected pursuant to the commercial recreation concessions on the land covered by the agreement.
(d)
Authorized activities
For the term of an agreement entered into under subsection (b)(1), with respect to land covered by the agreement, any activity defined as permissible under parts 2920 and 2930 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be permissible.
(e)
Effect
The establishment of commercial recreation concessions under subsection (b) shall not be considered to be a change in use for purposes of this Act.
.
