1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Assistance for Rural Health, Safety and Educational Facilities Act
.
2.
Assistance for rural heath, safety and educational facilities
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Agriculture (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) may—
(1)
make a grant to any hospital, health facility, public safety facility, or education facility that is eligible for assistance under section 306(a)(1) or 310B(g) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act and is located in a rural area (within the meaning of section 343(a)(13)(C) of such Act, subject to sections 343(a)(13)(H) and 343(a)(13)(I) of such Act);
(2)
provide a zero interest loan or a 1 percent loan to, forgive principal or interest or modify any term or condition of an outstanding loan made to, or refinance part or all of any other loan if the purpose of the loan or loan part is an eligible purpose under such section 306(a)(1) to any hospital, health facility, public safety facility, or education facility that is eligible for a direct loan under such section 306(a)(1); and
(3)
reduce or eliminate any fee that would otherwise be required to be paid under such section 306(a)(1) or 310B(g) with respect to a loan guarantee provided to any hospital, health facility, public safety facility, or education facility, on the condition that the borrower receives the benefit resulting from the reduction or elimination of the fee.
(b)
Level of assistance
The Secretary may provide assistance to an entity under this section as the Secretary determines is necessary to—
(1)
ensure that the entity has the necessary resources to maintain public health, safety, or order;
(2)
address financial hardships of the entity due to the COVID–19 public health emergency; and
(3)
promote the financial stability of the entity.
(c)
Use of funds
An entity to which assistance is provided under this section may use the assistance—
(1)
for any purpose for which the entity is eligible for assistance under such section 306(a)(1) or 310B; or
(2)
for any eligible direct operational expenses of the entity, as determined by the Secretary.
(d)
Notice
The Secretary may disburse funds under this section pursuant to 1 or more notices in the Federal Register, without regard to publication of any final rulemaking.
(e)
Appropriation
(1)
In general
Out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated $4,000,000,000 to carry out this section.
(2)
Reservation for assistance to hospitals and health facilities
The Secretary shall reserve $2,000,000,000 of the amount appropriated by paragraph (1) for assistance to hospitals and health facilities eligible for assistance under this section.
(3)
Reservation for administrative expenses
The Secretary shall reserve 3 percent of the amount appropriated by paragraph (1) for administrative expenses incurred in carrying out this section.
(4)
Availability
The amount appropriated in paragraph (1) shall remain available through December 31, 2021.
