1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Higher Education Research Protection Act of 2020
.
2.
Establishment of Higher Education Initiative
(a)
In general
Chapter 33
of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
540D.
Higher Education Initiative
(a)
In general
There is established within the Office of Private Sector of the Intelligence Branch of the Federal Bureau of Investigation a Higher Education Initiative, which shall be headed by the Assistant Director of the Office of Private Sector (in this Act referred to as
the Assistant Director
).
(b)
Duties
(1)
Assistant Director duties
The Assistant Director shall investigate and report to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation any suspected incidents of individuals participating in federally funded research as agents of a foreign government in institutions of higher education and National Academies.
(2)
Director duties
The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall instruct Federal Bureau of Investigation field offices to conduct proactive outreach to institutions of higher education and National Academies within the office’s area of responsibility.
(c)
Foreign Trade Statistical Program Access
For the purpose of carrying out the duties described in subsection (b), the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall have full access to any information collected by the Foreign Trade Statistical Program of the Bureau of the Census.
(d)
Hiring
The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall hire 56 investigative agents to carry out this section.
(e)
Definition
In this section:
(1)
Foreign government
The term
foreign government
includes the People’s Republic of China or any component thereof, including the Chinese Communist Party, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Central Military Commission of China, the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, the National People’s Congress of China, or the State Council of China.
(2)
Higher Education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
(3)
National Academies
The term
National Academies
means the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 33
of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
540D. Higher Education Initiative.
.
