1.
Short title
This Act may be referred to as the
Combating Online Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2019
.
2.
Combating wildlife trafficking
(a)
Task Force
The Eliminate, Neutralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016 (
16 U.S.C. 7601
et seq.) is amended—
(1)
in section 301 (
16 U.S.C. 7631
)—
(A)
in subsection (d)—
(i)
in paragraph (4) by striking
and
at the end;
(ii)
in paragraph (5) by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following:
(6)
recommendations for how the Task Force can expand cooperative exchanges with technology and social media companies to combat wildlife trafficking on the internet, including recommendations for—
(A)
identifying how wildlife is trafficked on internet sites and platforms;
(B)
methods for technology companies to assist Federal agencies and international partners to combat wildlife trafficking; and
(C)
methods to improve public-private relationships with technology and internet companies to combat wildlife trafficking.
;
(B)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
(C)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
(e)
Technology and Social Media Working Group
(1)
Membership
The Task Force shall form a Technology and Social Media Working Group, which shall be composed of such members of the Task Force as the Task Force determines appropriate and a representative of the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, as designated by such Chairman.
(2)
Purpose
Such Technology and Social Media Working Group shall work to address ongoing concerns with wildlife trafficking on the internet.
(3)
Meetings
Such Technology and Social Media Working Group shall convene at least once each year.
; and
(2)
in section 402 (
16 U.S.C. 7642
), by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Internet and social media
The Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, in collaboration with other relevant United States agencies, nongovernmental partners, private sector companies, and international bodies, shall develop a strategy for engaging and partnering with internet and social media companies to combat the spread of wildlife trafficking on the internet.
.
