1.
Zero interest loans for Federal and District of Columbia employees
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall, each Federal fiscal year, enroll each covered bank in a program to be known as the zero interest Federal and District of Columbia employee loan program unless such covered bank has elected not to participate in such program for such Federal fiscal year.
(b)
Zero Interest Loan
(1)
In general
Any covered bank enrolled in the zero interest Federal and District of Columbia employee loan program under subsection (a) shall, for the first 90 days of any lapse in Federal appropriations, upon request, extend a zero interest loan to any covered employee.
(2)
Amount of loan
Any loan or loans provided to a covered employee under paragraph (1) shall be equal to the amount paid to the covered employee by the United States or the District of Columbia during the pay period immediately preceding the lapse in Federal appropriations.
(3)
Maximum aggregate loan amount
A covered bank enrolled in the zero interest Federal and District of Columbia employee loan program shall not be required to extend a loan, or loans in the aggregate, in an amount greater than $9,000 to any individual covered employee with respect to each lapse in Federal appropriations.
(4)
Terms of Loan
Any covered bank that extends a loan under this subsection may not require repayment of such loan until 30 days after the conclusion of the lapse in Federal appropriations.
(c)
Safety and soundness safe harbor
A covered bank shall not extend any loan under this section if such loan would threaten the safety and soundness of the covered bank.
(d)
Published list
The Secretary of the Treasury shall publish and maintain, on the Department of the Treasury website, a list of all covered banks enrolled in the zero interest Federal and District of Columbia employee loan program for each Federal fiscal year.
(e)
Other assistance
Covered banks may provide other forms of assistance to any covered employee during any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after December 22, 2018.
(f)
Rulemaking
The Secretary of the Treasury shall issue rules to carry out this Act.
(g)
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
Covered bank
The term
covered bank
means a bank holding company that has been identified by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as a global systemically important bank holding company pursuant to section 217.402 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, and each subsidiary and affiliate of such a bank holding company.
(2)
Covered employee
The term
covered employee
means a Federal or District of Columbia employee furloughed or excepted from such furlough during any lapse in Federal appropriations beginning on or after December 22, 2018, who is not a Member of Congress.
