1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Network Security Information Sharing Act of 2019
.
2.
Information sharing with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services
(a)
Information sharing program
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, including an opportunity for notice and comment, the Secretary, in cooperation with the Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Assistant Secretary, and the Commission, shall establish a program to share information regarding supply chain security risks with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services.
(2)
Activities
In carrying out the program established under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
conduct regular briefings and other events to share information with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services;
(B)
engage with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services, in particular such providers and suppliers that—
(i)
are small businesses; or
(ii)
primarily serve rural areas;
(C)
not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a plan for—
(i)
declassifying material, when feasible, to help share information regarding supply chain security risks with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services; and
(ii)
expediting and expanding the provision of security clearances to facilitate information sharing regarding supply chain security risks with trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services; and
(D)
ensure that the activities carried out through the program are consistent with and, to the extent practicable, integrated with, ongoing activities of the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Commerce.
(3)
Scope of program
The program established under paragraph (1) shall involve only the sharing of information regarding supply chain security risks by the Federal Government to trusted providers of advanced communications service and trusted suppliers of communications equipment or services, and not the sharing of such information by such providers and suppliers to the Federal Government.
(4)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2020. Such amounts are authorized to remain available through fiscal year 2025.
(b)
Representation on CSRIC of interests of public and consumers
(1)
In general
The Commission shall appoint to the Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (or any successor thereof), and to each subcommittee, workgroup, or other subdivision of the Council (or any such successor), at least one member to represent the interests of the public and consumers.
(2)
Initial appointments
The Commission shall make the initial appointments required by paragraph (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Any member so appointed shall be in addition to the members of the Council, or the members of the subdivision of the Council to which the appointment is being made, as the case may be, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Advanced communications service
The term
advanced communications service
has the meaning given the term
advanced telecommunications capability
in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (
47 U.S.C. 1302
).
(2)
Assistant Secretary
The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
(3)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(4)
Communications equipment or service
The term
communications equipment or service
means any equipment or service that is essential to the provision of advanced communications service.
(5)
Foreign adversary
The term
foreign adversary
means any foreign government or foreign nongovernment person engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or security and safety of United States persons.
(6)
Person
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
(7)
Provider of advanced communications service
The term
provider of advanced communications service
means a person who provides advanced communications service to United States customers.
(8)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(9)
Supply chain security risk
The term
supply chain security risk
includes specific risk and vulnerability information related to equipment and software.
(10)
Trusted
The term
trusted
means, with respect to a provider of advanced communications service or a supplier of communications equipment or service, that the Secretary has determined that such provider or supplier is not owned by, controlled by, or subject to the influence of a foreign adversary.
