1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Safety Act of 2019
.
2.
Academic-based training initiative to improve police responses for people with mental illness and intellectual and developmental disabilities
(a)
Authorization
The Attorney General is authorized to make grants, in the form of cooperative agreements, to eligible entities to provide training and technical assistance to law enforcement and other criminal justice agencies and their behavioral health service partners to improve responses and reduce crime and recidivism associated with people who have mental illnesses and intellectual and developmental disabilities.
(b)
Eligible entity defined
For purposes of this section, the term
eligible entity
means a public or private academic organization, a nonprofit academic organization (including a tribal nonprofit organization), and a public university or colleges (including a tribal institution of higher education).
(c)
Application
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Attorney General an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require, including information demonstrating experience working in a law enforcement training environment and with local governments, law enforcement agencies, State and county mental and behavioral health systems, organizations serving people with mental illness and intellectual and developmental disabilities, and criminal justice systems.
(d)
Collaboration
An eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall collaborate with other recipients in order to better service the training needs of local communities.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $2,500,000 to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
3.
Increasing amount authorized to be appropriated for mental health awareness training grants
Section 520J of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–41
) is amended by—
(1)
striking paragraph (7) of subsection (b); and
(2)
adding at the end the following:
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
.
