1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Sugar Policy Act of 2019
.
2.
Sugar program
Paragraph (5) of section 156(a) of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (
7 U.S.C. 7272(a)
) is amended to read as follows:
(5)
18.75 cents per pound for raw cane sugar for each of the 2020 through 2024 crop years.
.
3.
Flexible marketing allotments for sugar repealed
Part VII of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (
7 U.S.C. 1359aa
et seq.) is amended to read as follows:
VII
Administration of tariff rate quotas
359a.
Tariff rate quotas
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, at the beginning of the quota year, the Secretary shall establish the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar at no less than the minimum level necessary to comply with obligations under international trade agreements that have been approved by Congress.
(b)
Adjustment
(1)
In general
Subject to subsection (a), the Secretary shall adjust the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar to provide adequate supplies of sugar at reasonable prices in the domestic market.
(2)
Ending stocks
Subject to paragraphs (1) and (3), the Secretary shall establish and adjust tariff-rate quotas in such a manner that the ratio of sugar stocks to total sugar use at the end of the quota year will be approximately 15.5 percent.
(3)
Maintenance of reasonable prices and avoidance of forfeitures
(A)
In general
The Secretary may establish a different target for the ratio of ending stocks to total use if, in the judgment of the Secretary, the different target is necessary to prevent—
(i)
unreasonably high prices; or
(ii)
forfeitures of sugar pledged as collateral for a loan under section 156 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (
7 U.S.C. 7272
).
(B)
Announcement
The Secretary shall publicly announce any establishment of a target under this paragraph.
(4)
Considerations
In establishing tariff-rate quotas under subsection (a) and making adjustments under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the impact of the quotas on consumers, workers, businesses (including small businesses), and agricultural producers.
(c)
Temporary transfer of quotas
(1)
In general
To promote full use of the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations that provide that any country that has been allocated a share of the quotas may temporarily transfer all or part of the share to any other country that has also been allocated a share of the quotas.
(2)
Transfers voluntary
Any transfer under this subsection shall be valid only on voluntary agreement between the transferor and the transferee, consistent with procedures established by the Secretary.
(3)
Transfers temporary
(A)
In general
Any transfer under this subsection shall be valid only for the duration of the quota year during which the transfer is made.
(B)
Following quota year
No transfer under this subsection shall affect the share of the quota allocated to the transferor or transferee for the following quota year.
.
4.
Repeal of feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers
(a)
In general
Section 9010 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (
7 U.S.C. 8110
) is repealed.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 359a(3)(B) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (
7 U.S.C. 1359aa(3)(B)
) is amended—
(A)
in clause (i), by inserting
and
after the semicolon at the end;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking
; and
at the end and inserting a period; and
(C)
by striking clause (iii).
(2)
Section 359b(c)(2)(C) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (
7 U.S.C. 1359bb(c)(2)(C)
) is amended by striking
, except for
and all that follows through
of 2002
.
