1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cybersecurity Curriculum Enhancement Act
.
2.
Cybersecurity Education Grants
(a)
Curriculum requirements
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop requirements that a cybersecurity education curriculum shall meet for purposes of a grant under this section.
(b)
Grants authorized
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to award States, local educational agencies, and nonprofit organizations for cybersecurity education curriculum for secondary schools.
(c)
Grant amount
A grant awarded under this section shall not exceed $500,000 for any fiscal year.
(d)
Applications
To receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, which shall include how the eligible entity’s proposed cybersecurity education curriculum will be aligned to the National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800–181, National Initiative for Cybersecurity Workforce Framework.
(e)
Reporting requirements
Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary a report, on an annual basis, that includes—
(1)
a description of how the grant was used;
(2)
the number of students who enrolled and completed a secondary school program in which the curriculum was used; and
(3)
the number of teachers using the cybersecurity education curriculum.
(f)
Appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years.
(g)
Cybersecurity education
In this section:
(1)
Cybersecurity education
The term
cybersecurity education
means education on ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and safety of information systems used in critical infrastructure sectors, including control systems and operational technology.
(2)
ESEA terms
The terms
local educational agency
,
secondary school
, and
Secretary
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
State
The term
State
means each of the 50 several States.
