1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Blue Campaign Enhancement Act
.
2.
Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign enhancement
Section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 242
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
(f)
Web-Based training programs
To enhance training opportunities, the Director of the Blue Campaign shall develop web-based interactive training videos that utilize a learning management system to provide online training opportunities that shall be made available to the following individuals:
(1)
Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers.
(2)
Detention and correction system personnel.
(3)
Such other individuals as the Director determines appropriate.
(g)
Blue Campaign Advisory Board
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish within the Department a Blue Campaign Advisory Board and shall assign to such Board a representative from each of the following components:
(A)
The Transportation Security Administration.
(B)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(C)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(D)
The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center.
(E)
The United States Secret Service.
(F)
Any other components or offices the Secretary determines appropriate.
(2)
Consultation
The Director shall consult the Board established pursuant to paragraph (1) regarding the following:
(A)
Trends and patterns in human trafficking to inform the development of training and materials by the Blue Campaign.
(B)
The development of effective awareness campaigns for Federal and non-Federal officials to identify and prevent instances of human trafficking.
(C)
Outreach to persons or entities that may be uniquely positioned to recognize signs of human trafficking and provide assistance in the development of materials for such persons.
(3)
Applicability
The Federal Advisor Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to—
(A)
the Board; or
(B)
consultations under paragraph (2).
(h)
Consultation
With regard to the development of programs under the Blue Campaign and the implementation of such programs, the Director is authorized to consult with State, local, Tribal, and territorial agencies, non-governmental organizations, private sector organizations, and experts. Such consultation shall be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
.
