1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Telecommunications Opportunities for Workers Engaging in Real Infrastructure Deployment Act of 2019
or the
TOWER Infrastructure Deployment Act
.
2.
Telecommunications workforce development advisory council
Part I of title III of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 301
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
344.
Telecommunications workforce development advisory council
(a)
Establishment
There is established within the Commission a Telecommunications Workforce Development Advisory Council (referred to in this section as the
Advisory Council
).
(b)
Duties
The Advisory Council shall advise the Commission on, and develop recommendations with respect to—
(1)
the needs of the workforce in the communications industry to promote the deployment of communications facility installations;
(2)
ways to encourage participation in industry-led workforce development programs; and
(3)
ways to improve workforce development in the communications industry.
(c)
Members
(1)
Composition of Council
The Advisory Council shall be composed of members appointed under paragraph (2) that shall include at least one member representing, respectively—
(A)
the Telecommunications Industry Registered Apprenticeship Program;
(B)
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration;
(C)
a State agency;
(D)
a local agency;
(E)
a Tribal agency;
(F)
the communications industry; and
(G)
a minority institution (as defined in section 365 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067k
)).
(2)
Initial appointments
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of these sections, the Chairman of the Commission shall appoint members to serve on the Advisory Council.
(3)
Term
Each member appointed under paragraph (2) shall serve on the Advisory Council until the termination of the Council.
(4)
Chair
The Chairman of the Commission shall designate a member of the Advisory Council as Chair.
(5)
Vacancy
A vacancy in the Advisory Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(6)
Compensation
The members of the Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.
(d)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Advisory Council shall submit a report on the recommendations under subsection (b) to—
(1)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;
(2)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
(3)
the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives; and
(4)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
(e)
Termination of Advisory Council
Notwithstanding
section 14
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the Advisory Council shall terminate on March 1, 2024.
(f)
Definition of communications facility installation
In this section, the term
communications facility installation
has the meaning given that term in section 6409(d) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1455(d)
).
.
