1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Nationwide, there are over 585,000 apprentices currently obtaining the skills they need to succeed, while earning the wages they need to build financial security.
(2)
On June 15, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive order to double Federal spending on the Apprenticeship USA program to $200 million a year, with the money allocated from existing job training programs.
(3)
Businesses from across the country signed the
Pledge to American Workers
, committing to provide 3,800,000 workers with apprenticeship opportunities.
(4)
Nationally, 91 percent of United States apprentices are employed after completing their programs, with an average starting wage above $60,000.
(5)
The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act was signed into law in July 2018 to promote access to workplace development programs such as apprenticeship programs.
(6)
On December 21, 2018, the First Step Act of 2018 was signed into law, a landmark criminal justice reform to promote hope and opportunity for incarcerated individuals.
(7)
Former inmates often face a significant inability to enter the workforce due to a lack of relevant training, negatively impacting their family and future generations.
(8)
Sixty percent of the 650,000 inmates released every year are unemployed one year after they are released.
(9)
Congress must continue its work to expand all forms of apprenticeship opportunities to ensure all American workers have access to the necessary workforce development tools.
2.
Expanding access to apprenticeships
(a)
Promotion of all forms of apprenticeships and pre-Apprenticeships to certain populations
The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, and the Attorney General, shall, in consultation with each other and consistent with applicable law, promote all forms of apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships for—
(1)
high school students and participants in the Job Corps of the Department of Labor;
(2)
persons currently or formerly incarcerated;
(3)
persons not currently attending high school or an accredited post-secondary educational institution; and
(4)
for members of armed services and veterans.
(b)
Promotion of apprenticeships and pre-Apprenticeships to certain industries
The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Labor shall promote apprenticeships to business leaders across critical industry sectors, including manufacturing, infrastructure, cybersecurity, health care, and construction.
(c)
Apprenticeship defined
For the purposes of this Act, the term “apprenticeship” means an arrangement that includes a paid-work component and an educational or instructional component, wherein an individual obtains workplace-relevant knowledge and skills.
