1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Connecting Communities Post Disasters Act of 2019
.
2.
Application of NEPA and NHPA to covered communications projects
(a)
NEPA considerations
The Federal Communications Commission shall treat covered projects as a class of action categorically excluded under section 1508.4 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulation), from any requirement to prepare an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)
).
(b)
National historic preservation considerations
Section 306108 of title 54, United States Code, shall not apply with respect to a covered project for which the Federal Communications Commission is required to issue a permit or that is otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Communications facility
The term
communications facility
includes—
(A)
any wireless or wireline infrastructure for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds;
(B)
any transmitting device, tower, or support structure, and any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters, or cabinets, associated with the provision of communications services; and
(C)
any antenna or apparatus that—
(i)
is designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency;
(ii)
is designed to be operated, or is operating, from a fixed location; and
(iii)
is added to a tower, building, or other structure.
(2)
Communications service
The term
communications service
means a service for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds.
(3)
Covered project
The term
covered project
means a project that—
(A)
is to be carried out within an area for which the President has declared a major disaster or an emergency under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.);
(B)
is to be carried out not later than 5 years after the date that the President made such declaration; and
(C)
replaces a communications facility damaged by such disaster or emergency or makes improvements to a communications facility in such area that could reasonably be considered as necessary for recovery from such disaster or emergency or to prevent or mitigate future disasters or emergencies.
