1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Careers in Aviation for America’s Veterans Act of 2020
.
2.
Treatment of certain reimbursed flight training expenses
(a)
In general
In the case of a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1980, the determination of whether a deduction is allowable under
section 162(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for flight training expenses shall be made without regard to whether the taxpayer was reimbursed for any portion of such expenses under section 1677(b) of title 38, United States Code (as in effect before its repeal by
Public Law 97–35
).
(b)
Statute of limitations
If refund or credit of any overpayment of tax resulting from the application of subsection (a) is prevented at any time before the close of the 1-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act by the operation of any law or rule of law (including res judicata), refund or credit of such overpayment (to the extent attributable to the application of subsection (a)) may, nevertheless, be made or allowed if claim therefor is filed before the close of such 1-year period.
3.
Use of Department of Veterans Affairs educational assistance benefits for private pilot certification courses
Section 3034(d) of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
and
after the semicolon;
(2)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(3)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
4.
National strategy to provide assistance to veterans pursuing careers in aviation
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor, shall develop a national strategy for providing assistance to veterans in pursuing careers in aviation. Such strategy shall include—
(1)
an assessment of existing programs to develop methods and procedures of informing veterans of any benefits to which they may be entitled relating to the pursuit of a career in aviation;
(2)
a survey of existing private and public employment opportunities for veterans in the aviation industry; and
(3)
policy recommendations for providing assistance to veterans who are interested in pursuing careers in aviation.
5.
Apportionment of funds for covered airports
Section 47114(d)(3) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(E)
(i)
Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall apportion $150,000 to a covered airport.
(ii)
Section 47106(a)(7) of this title shall not apply to funds apportioned under this subparagraph.
(iii)
In this subparagraph, the term
covered airport
means an airport that—
(I)
is a privately owned reliever airport;
(II)
is a public-use airport; and
(III)
is listed as having an unclassified status under the most recent national plan of integrated airport systems.
.
