1.
Durango disposal site
(a)
Identification
(1)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall—
(A)
identify, in accordance with paragraph (2), a portion of Federal land within the Durango disposal site that is suitable for conveyance to the State of Colorado for use as a storage site for residual radioactive materials as part of remediation activities carried out by such State relating to properties in the vicinity of the Durango processing site; and
(B)
offer to convey such land to the State of Colorado for such purpose.
(2)
Requirements
In carrying out paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall ensure that the identified land—
(A)
consists of approximately .25 acres;
(B)
is located in the southwestern corner of the Durango disposal site; and
(C)
is south of, and bounded by, County Road 212.
(b)
Conveyance
Subject to the terms and conditions described in subsection (c), if, not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary offers under subsection (a) to convey land identified under such subsection to the State of Colorado, the State accepts such offer, the Secretary shall convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to such land to the State, without consideration.
(c)
Terms and conditions
As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (b), the Secretary—
(1)
shall impose a requirement that the State of Colorado manage the conveyed land in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 relating to the Durango disposal site, including after the use described in subsection (a) has ceased; and
(2)
may impose such additional requirements as the Secretary determines necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
(d)
Boundary revision
The Secretary shall revise the legal description of the Durango disposal site included in the Long-Term Surveillance Plan for such site pursuant to section 40.27 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, to reflect the conveyance under subsection (b) and shall notify the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of such revision, and the Commission shall accept such revised Long-Term Surveillance Plan for purposes of the general license issued for such site by the Commission.
(e)
Effect on existing requirements
The Secretary shall carry out this section in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 relating to the Durango disposal site.
(f)
Notice
A notice described under the heading
Sale of Land
in the report accompanying the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2002, is not required for the conveyance under subsection (b).
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Durango disposal site
The term
Durango disposal site
means the site in Durango, Colorado, for the permanent disposition and stabilization of residual radioactive materials pursuant to the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (
42 U.S.C. 7901
et seq.).
(2)
Durango processing site
The term
Durango processing site
means the processing site in Durango, Colorado, designated under section 102(a)(1) of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (
42 U.S.C. 7912(a)(1)
).
(3)
Residual radioactive material
The term
residual radioactive material
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (
42 U.S.C. 7911
).
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
