1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Independence from Credit Policy Act of 2020
.
2.
Independence from credit policy
(a)
Returning to a monetary policy balance sheet
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act—
(A)
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall transfer to the Department of the Treasury all covered assets that are neither gold stock, Treasury currency, nor direct obligations of the United States, foreign central banks, or the International Monetary Fund; and
(B)
the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer to the Federal reserve banks direct obligations of the United States of equivalent market value to such covered assets.
(2)
Covered assets defined
In this subsection, the term
covered assets
means all assets—
(A)
purchased through open-market operations by the Federal reserve banks; or
(B)
acquired through transactions under the following sections of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.):
(i)
Section 10A before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(ii)
Section 10B.
(iii)
Section 13.
(iv)
Section 13A.
(v)
Section 24.
(b)
Open market asset purchases
Section 14(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 355
) (relating to
Purchase and sale of obligations of United States, States, counties, etc.
) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
To buy and sell in the open market, at home or abroad, under the direction and regulations of the Federal Open Market Committee, gold stock, Treasury currency, or direct obligations of the United States, foreign central banks, or the International Monetary Fund. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit advances under section 10B, or discount loans under sections 13, 13A, or 24.
.
(c)
Maintaining a monetary policy balance sheet
(1)
Assets acquired under emergency lending
Section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 343(3)
) is amended by inserting after subparagraph (E) following new subparagraph:
(F)
Not later than 1 year after a Federal reserve bank acquires any assets under this paragraph that are neither gold nor direct obligations of the United States, foreign central banks, or the International Monetary Fund—
(i)
the Board shall transfer such assets of the Federal reserve bank to the Department of the Treasury; and
(ii)
the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer to the Federal reserve banks direct obligations of the United States of equivalent market value to the assets described in clause (i).
.
(2)
Repeal of authority to provide emergency advances to groups of member banks
Section 10A of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 347a
) is repealed.
(3)
Assets acquired through advances to member banks
The second undesignated paragraph of subsection (a) of section 10B of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 347b(a)
) is amended—
(A)
by inserting
not
before
secured by mortgage loans
; and
(B)
by striking
lowest discount rate
and inserting
highest discount rate
.
