1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act
.
2.
Finding
Congress finds that since the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004 was enacted, in many foreign countries acts of anti-Semitism have been frequent and wide in scope, the perpetrators and variety of threats to Jewish communities and their institutions have proliferated, and in some countries anti-Semitic attacks have increased in frequency, scope, violence, and deadliness.
3.
Monitoring and Combating anti-Semitism
(a)
In general
Subsection (a) of section 59 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2731
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
; and
(ii)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
The Special Envoy shall report directly to the Secretary.
; and
(B)
in subparagraph (B)—
(i)
in the heading, by striking
Appointment
and inserting
Nomination
;
(ii)
by striking the first sentence;
(iii)
in the second sentence, by striking
If the Secretary determines that such is appropriate, the Secretary may appoint
and inserting
If the President determines that such is appropriate, the President may nominate
; and
(iv)
in the third sentence, by striking
The Secretary may allow such officer or employee to retain the position (and the responsibilities associated with such position) held by such officer or employee prior to the appointment
and inserting
Such officer or employee may not retain the position (or the responsibilities associated with such position) held by such officer or employee prior to the nomination
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(3)
Duties
The Special Envoy shall serve as the primary advisor to, and coordinate efforts across, the United States Government relating to monitoring and combating anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic incitement that occur in foreign countries.
(4)
Rank and status of ambassador
The Special Envoy shall have the rank of ambassador.
(5)
Qualifications
The Special Envoy should be a person of recognized distinction in the field of—
(A)
combating anti-Semitism;
(B)
religious freedom; or
(C)
law enforcement.
.
(b)
Nomination
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not later than 120 after any such position becomes vacant, the President shall nominate the Special Envoy for Monitoring and Combating anti-Semitism under section 59 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by subsection (a) of this section.
