1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Twentynine Palms Outdoor Recreational Enhancement Act
.
2.
Conveyance for City of Twentynine Palms
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
City
The term
City
means the city of Twentynine Palms, California.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(b)
Conveyance of federal land to city
(1)
Conveyance required
At the request of the city of Twentynine Palms, California, not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of the land generally as
Proposed Conveyance to Twentynine Palms
on the map entitled
Proposed Conveyance to Twentynine Palms
and dated September 18, 2015.
(2)
Existing rights and mineral estate
The conveyance under this subsection—
(A)
is subject to valid existing rights; and
(B)
does not include the mineral estate.
(c)
Use of conveyed land
(1)
In general
The land conveyed under subsection (b) may be used by the City for any public purpose authorized in paragraph (2), consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act;
43 U.S.C. 869
et seq.).
(2)
Authorized purposes
The purposes of the conveyance under subsection (b) are to permit the City to use the conveyed land to provide—
(A)
a suitable location for the establishment of a centralized off-road vehicle recreation park;
(B)
the public with opportunities for off-road vehicle recreation, including a location for races, competitive events, training, and other commercial services that directly support a centralized off-road vehicle recreation area and City park; and
(C)
a designated area and facilities that would discourage unauthorized use of off-highway vehicles in areas that have been identified by the Federal Government, the State of California, or the County of San Bernardino as containing environmentally sensitive land.
(3)
Disposal prohibited
The land conveyed under subsection (b) may not be disposed of by the City without the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
(d)
Temporary reversionary interest
During the 5-year period beginning on the date of the conveyance of the land under subsection (b), if the Secretary of the Interior determines that the City has disposed of the conveyed land in violation of subsection (c)(3) or has failed to use the land for the authorized purposes laid out in subsection (c)(2), title to the land shall revert to the United States, at the option of the Secretary. At the end of the 5-year period, the Secretary shall release the reversionary interest.
