1.
Briefings on counterintelligence activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(a)
In general
Title V of section 501 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
512.
Briefings on counterintelligence activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(a)
Quarterly briefings
Not less frequently than once each quarter, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide to the congressional intelligence committees a briefing on the counterintelligence activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Such briefings shall include, at a minimum, an overview and update of—
(1)
the counterintelligence posture of the Bureau;
(2)
counterintelligence investigations; and
(3)
any other information relating to the counterintelligence activities of the Bureau that the Director determines necessary.
(b)
Notifications
In addition to the quarterly briefings under subsection (a), the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall promptly notify the congressional intelligence committees of any counterintelligence investigation carried out by the Bureau regarding any of the following:
(1)
A candidate who seeks nomination for election, or election, to a Federal office.
(2)
A political campaign of a candidate who seeks nomination for election, or election, to a Federal office.
(3)
An individual known to be associated with a political campaign of a candidate who seeks nomination for election, or election, to a Federal office.
(c)
Guidelines
The Director, in coordination with the Attorney General and in consultation with the congressional intelligence committees, shall develop guidelines governing the scope of the briefings provided under subsection (a) and the notifications under subsection (b).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents at the beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 511 the following new item:
Sec. 512. Briefings on counterintelligence activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
.
