1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Regulatory Penalties for PPP Lenders Act
.
2.
Excluding Paycheck Protection Program loans from certain asset calculations
(a)
In general
For purposes of determining capital ratios, deposit insurance premiums, and other asset thresholds and categories under Federal banking regulations with respect to a credit union, depository institution, or depository institution holding company with less than $15,000,000,000 in consolidated assets, the appropriate Federal banking agency shall exclude Paycheck Protection Program loans.
(b)
Specific exclusion
Subsection (a) shall not apply to call reports filed by a credit union, depository institution, or depository institution holding company.
(c)
Rulemaking
Not later than the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal banking agencies shall issue regulations to carry out this section.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate Federal banking agency
The term
appropriate Federal banking agency
—
(A)
has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
(B)
means the National Credit Union Administration, in the case of a credit union; and
(C)
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, for purposes of calculating asset thresholds under section 1025 and 1026 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5515
and 5516).
(2)
Credit union
The term
credit union
means a State credit union and a Federal credit union, as such terms are defined, respectively, under section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act.
(3)
Federal banking agencies
The term
Federal banking agencies
means the agencies described under paragraph (1).
(4)
Federal Deposit Insurance Act terms
The term
depository institution
, and
depository institution holding company
have the meaning given those terms, respectively, under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(5)
Paycheck Protection Program loan
The term
Paycheck Protection Program loan
means a loan guaranteed under section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act.
