1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Child Marriage Act
.
2.
Preventing child marriage in United Nations-administered refugee settlements
(a)
In general
The President shall direct the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States at the United Nations to call for an adoption by the United Nations of a definition of
child marriage
and the development of a comprehensive strategy to address child marriage in refugee settlements administered by the United Nations. Such strategy should include the following:
(1)
A mandate to regularly collect and report data related to the number of known or suspected child marriages taking place inside each such settlement.
(2)
Protocols for United Nations personnel regarding prevention and monitoring of child marriages inside each such settlement.
(3)
A description of programs administered at such settlements that provide—
(A)
physical, mental, and emotional rehabilitation and support to children who have extricated themselves from child marriage; and
(B)
alternatives to child marriage, such as education initiatives.
(4)
Protocols regarding how United Nations personnel should—
(A)
report adults participating in illegal child marriages in each such settlement; and
(B)
monitor the prosecution of such adults by the authorities of the country in which the settlement at issue is located.
(b)
Research
The President shall direct the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States at the United Nations to advocate for the United Nations and its appropriate agencies to include in all of its research into child marriage the relationship between child marriage and violence against girls, including young children and infants.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Child marriage
The term
child marriage
means a formal marriage or informal union involving at least one person younger than age 18.
(2)
Illegal child marriage
The term
illegal child marriage
means a formal marriage or informal union involving at least one person younger than age 18 that is illegal under the laws of the country in which the child marriage occurs.
