1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Security Act of 2019
.
2.
Purchase of service weapons by qualified current or former law enforcement officers
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), an agency shall offer for sale at fair market value a single, functional firearm, which would otherwise be destroyed, to an individual—
(1)
who is—
(A)
a law enforcement officer employed by and in good standing with such agency; or
(B)
a former law enforcement officer separated from the employ of such agency for reasons other than misconduct, neglect of duty, or malfeasance; and
(2)
to whom such agency most recently issued such firearm.
(b)
Background check required
(1)
In general
An agency may not sell a firearm to an individual under subsection (a) of this section until the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (
34 U.S.C. 40901
) has notified the agency that receipt of a firearm by the individual would not violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of title 18, United States Code, or State law, unless paragraph (1) of section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, would not apply to the transfer by reason of paragraph (3) of such section 922(t) if the agency were a licensee.
(2)
Communication between a Federal agency and NICS
For the purpose of the sale of a firearm under subsection (a) of this section, an agency may contact the national instant criminal background check system in the same manner as a licensee is authorized to contact the system under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (
34 U.S.C. 40901
), for information on whether receipt of a firearm by a prospective buyer would violate section 922 of title 18, United States Code, or State law, and the system may respond to such contact as if the agency were a licensee.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given such term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Firearm
The term
firearm
means a pistol or revolver.
(3)
Good standing
The term
good standing
means, with respect to an individual who is a law enforcement officer, that the individual—
(A)
is not currently the subject of any disciplinary action by the employing agency of such individual, which could result in permanent loss of police powers and removal from such agency; and
(B)
is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm.
(4)
Law enforcement officer
The term
law enforcement officer
has the meaning given such term under section 8401 of title 5, United States Code.
(5)
Licensee
The term
licensee
has the meaning given such term in section 103(j)(1) of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (
34 U.S.C. 40901(j)(1)
).
