1.
Holding Medicare beneficiaries harmless for specified COVID-19 treatment services furnished under part A or part B of the Medicare program
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of a specified COVID-19 treatment service (as defined in subsection (b)) furnished to an individual entitled to benefits under part A or enrolled under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395
et seq.) for which payment is made under such part A or such part B, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall provide that—
(1)
any cost-sharing required (including any deductible, copayment, or coinsurance) applicable to such individual under such part A or such part B with respect to such item or service is paid by the Secretary; and
(2)
the provider of services or supplier (as defined in section 1861 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x
)) does not hold such individual liable for such requirement.
(b)
Definition of specified COVID-19 treatment services
For purposes of this section, the term
specified COVID-19 treatment service
means any item or service furnished to an individual for which payment may be made under part A or part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395
et seq.) if such item or service is included in a claim with an ICD–10–CM code relating to COVID-19 (as described in the document entitled
ICD–10–CM Official Coding Guidelines—Supplement Coding encounters related to COVID-19 Coronavirus Outbreak
published on February 20, 2020, or as otherwise specified by the Secretary).
(c)
Recovery of cost-Sharing amounts paid by the Secretary in the case of supplemental insurance coverage
(1)
In general
In the case of any amount paid by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a)(1) that the Secretary determines would otherwise have been paid by a group health plan or health insurance issuer (as such terms are defined in section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–91
)), a private entity offering a medicare supplemental policy under section 1882 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395ss
), any other health plan offering supplemental coverage, a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act, or the Secretary of Defense under the TRICARE program, such plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense, as applicable, shall pay to the Secretary, not later than 1 year after such plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense receives a notice under paragraph (3), such amount in accordance with this subsection.
(2)
Required information
Not later than 9 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, each group health plan, health insurance issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, and Secretary of Defense described in paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary such information as the Secretary determines necessary for purposes of carrying out this subsection. Such information so submitted shall be updated by such plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense, as applicable, at such time and in such manner as specified by the Secretary.
(3)
Review of claims and notification
The Secretary shall establish a process under which claims for items and services for which the Secretary has paid an amount pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are reviewed for purposes of identifying if such amount would otherwise have been paid by a plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense described in paragraph (1). In the case such a claim is so identified, the Secretary shall determine the amount that would have been otherwise payable by such plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense and notify such plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, State plan, or Secretary of Defense of such amount.
(4)
Enforcement
The Secretary may impose a civil monetary penalty in an amount determined appropriate by the Secretary in the case of a plan, issuer, private entity, other health plan, or State plan that fails to comply with a provision of this section. The provisions of section 1128A of the Social Security Act shall apply to a civil monetary penalty imposed under the previous sentence in the same manner as such provisions apply to a penalty or proceeding under subsection (a) or (b) of such section.
(d)
Funding
The Secretary shall provide for the transfer to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Program Management Account from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Trust Fund (in such portions as the Secretary determines appropriate) $100,000,000 for purposes of carrying out this section.
(e)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report containing an analysis of amounts paid pursuant to subsection (a)(1) compared to amounts paid to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (c).
(f)
Implementation
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may implement the provisions of this section by program instruction or otherwise.
