1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Climate Censorship Act of 2019
.
2.
Prevention of political interference in the communication of scientific research
Title I of the America COMPETES Act is amended by adding at the end the following:
1010.
Prevention of Political Interference
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall develop and issue policies, consistent with established scientific integrity policies, that require political appointees of each Federal civilian agency that conducts scientific research to publicly report on any action by such political appointee—
(1)
to modify any scientific research or findings that are used to inform any agency communication to the public relating to climate change; or
(2)
to modify any agency communication to the public in a manner inconsistent with scientific research or findings relating to climate change.
(b)
Contents of report
The report required under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
specify the specific individuals who were involved in the decision to take such action;
(2)
describe the scientific evidence used to justify such decision;
(3)
specify any other agency or individual consulted with respect to such decision; and
(4)
be provided by such political appointee to the appropriate committees of jurisdiction in Congress for the respective agencies.
(c)
Review of policies
The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall review and update as necessary the policies described in this section on a biennial basis.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Political appointee
The term
political appointee
means a Federal employee who holds—
(A)
a position which has been excepted from the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character; or
(B)
a position in the Senior Executive Service as a noncareer appointee (as such term is defined in section 3132(a) of title 5, United States Code).
(2)
Climate change
The term
climate change
means any change in the state of the global climate that can be identified by changes in the mean or the variability of its properties, and that persists for an extended period, typically decades or longer.
.
