1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Police Training and Accountability Act
.
2.
Law enforcement training requirement and standards
(a)
Training requirement
The Civilian Commission on Modern Law Enforcement Training shall establish a single national training requirement every law enforcement officer in America should, at minimum, meet before being permitted to perform the duties of a law enforcement officer.
(b)
Training standards
The training requirement established pursuant to this section shall be uniform and include, at minimum, standards pertaining to—
(1)
a minimum level of education attainment (while not prohibiting high school graduates from employment consideration for entry-level positions);
(2)
a minimum number of training hours;
(3)
use of force;
(4)
use of lethal force;
(5)
implicit bias;
(6)
conflict resolution, mediation, and de-escalation practices;
(7)
pursuit;
(8)
video technology;
(9)
stop and search procedures; and
(10)
intervention programs.
3.
Adoption of training standards required
Any employer of a law enforcement officer who has not completed training satisfying the requirements of section 2 of this Act shall be ineligible for any Federal funds made available by the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program.
4.
Civilian-Law Enforcement Bill of Rights
The Civilian Commission on Modern Law Enforcement Training established by this Act shall issue a Civilian-Law Enforcement Bill of Rights describing the rights every person has when interacting with law enforcement. This Bill of Rights shall be adhered to by every recipient of an Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program award.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(a)
The term
law enforcement officer
means any officer, agent, or employee of the Federal Government, a State, a unit of local government, or an Indian tribe authorized by law or by a government agency to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, or investigation of any violation of criminal law, or authorized by law to supervise sentenced criminal offenders.
(b)
The term
Civilian Commission on Modern Law Enforcement Training
means an independent commission established pursuant to this Act within the Department of Justice that consists of persons without a history of military or law enforcement employment. Members of the Commission shall be equally appointed by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and the majority leader of the U.S. Senate.
