1.
Universal deduction for charitable giving
(a)
In general
Section 62(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after paragraph (21) the following new paragraph:
(22)
Charitable contributions
The deduction allowed by section 170 (reduced by the portion thereof disallowed under section 68).
.
(b)
Application of overall limitation on itemized deductions
Section 68 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Application to deduction for charitable contributions
(1)
In general
For purposes of this section, the deduction allowed by section 170 shall be treated as an itemized deduction.
(2)
Application of limitation to above-the-line deduction
For purposes of section 62(a)(22), the portion of the deduction allowed by section 170 for any taxable year which is disallowed under this section is the portion bearing the same ratio as—
(A)
the amount of the reduction under subsection (a) for such taxable year, bears to
(B)
the amount of the itemized deductions otherwise allowable for such taxable year.
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 170(b)(1)(H) of such Code is amended by inserting
this section and
after
computed without regard to
.
(d)
Effective date
(1)
In general
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Cross reference
For suspension of the application of
section 68
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including the amendments to such section made by subsection (b)), see section 68(f) of such Code.
2.
Loans and loan guarantees to certain public charities
(a)
In general
Upon the application of any organization described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code, the Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate) shall, subject to the provisions of this section, make or guarantee a loan to such organization.
(b)
Limitation on aggregate amount loans
The aggregate amount of loans made or guaranteed under this section shall not exceed $60,000,000,000.
(c)
Criteria
In carrying out this section, the Secretary (or the Secretary’s delegate) shall give priority to eligible organizations that are providing direct assistance in the COVID-19 response effort.
(d)
Appropriation
There are hereby appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 30, 2002, to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, which sums shall remain available until expended.
