1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Reentry Act of 2020
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Researchers find that visitation from family and community members help mitigate recidivism rates among incarcerated individuals. Removing geographical barriers for inmates hoping to stay in touch with their families or members of their community may help lower recidivism rates. These continued relationships alleviate the risk of challenges such as unemployment, homelessness, and debt upon release.
(2)
In a study of inmates jailed close to home, the Vera Institute of Justice found that most participants rely on family support to stay off of drugs and maintain requirements of parole as well as care for children.
(3)
According to the Vera study, more than 80 percent of jailed respondents rely on family for support and more than 70 percent rely on friends. Even while incarcerated, inmates continue to rely heavily on their family and community outside of prison for basic needs and survival.
(4)
Family members report that distance is the greatest barrier to visiting incarcerated relatives while costs, such as transportation, follows. By removing geographical and cost barriers, family members of the incarcerated may have an opportunity to maintain a relationship with their incarcerated loved one.
(5)
Incarcerated persons should be afforded opportunities to change and heal. Strengthening relationships between inmates and the family and community members they have left behind will help decrease recidivism rates and heal fragmented familial and community relationships.
3.
Prerelease custody
Section 3624(c)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
Subject to the availability of appropriations and of bed space availability, the Director shall place a prisoner in a residential reentry center that is within 50 miles of the prisoner’s previous or anticipated permanent legal address, except when the prisoner waives his right to be placed in such a center for reasons such as—
(A)
safety of the prisoner or his family;
(B)
physical or mental health; or
(C)
any other reason deemed to be acceptable by the Director.
.
