1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Opportunity for Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs) Act
.
2.
Establishment of Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program
(a)
In general
Section 308 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (
12 U.S.C. 1463
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish a program to be known as the
Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program
(in this subsection referred to as the
Program
) under which a financial agent shall serve as a mentor to a minority depository institution so that such minority depository institution may become a financial agent.
(2)
Outreach
The Secretary shall hold outreach events to promote the participation of financial agents and minority depository institutions in the Program at least once a year.
(3)
Exclusion
The Secretary may exclude financial agents and minority depository institutions from participation in the Program.
(4)
Report
The Office of Minority and Women Inclusion of the Department of the Treasury shall include in the report submitted to Congress under section 342(e) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act information pertaining to the Program, including—
(A)
the number of financial agents participating in such Program; and
(B)
the number of outreach events described in paragraph (2) held during the year covered by such report.
(5)
Financial agent defined
In this subsection, the term
financial agent
means any national banking association selected by the Secretary of the Treasury to be employed as a financial agent of the Government in accordance with section 5153 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
.
(b)
Community Reinvestment Act credit
Section 804 of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (
12 U.S.C. 2903
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program participation
In assessing and taking into account, under subsection (a), the record of a financial institution, the appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency shall consider as a factor the financial institution’s participation as a mentor financial agent in the Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program of the Department of the Treasury (established under section 308(d) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989).
.
(c)
Effective date
This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
