1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Coordinating and Leveraging Activities for School Security Act
or the
CLASS Act of 2019
.
2.
School security coordinating council
(a)
In general
Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 341
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
711.
School security coordinating council
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department a coordinating council to ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, activities, plans, and policies to enhance the security of an early childhood education program, elementary school, high school, or secondary schools against an act of terrorism are coordinated.
(b)
Composition
The members of the council established pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
(2)
The Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security.
(3)
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(4)
The Director of the Secret Service.
(5)
The Executive Director of the Office of Academic Engagement.
(6)
The Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
(7)
Any other official of the Department the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Leadership
The Secretary shall designate a member of the council to serve as chair of the council.
(d)
Reports
Not later than January 30, 2021, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report regarding the council’s activities during the preceding year, including information on any metrics regarding the efficacy of such activities.
(e)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
early childhood education program
,
elementary school
,
high school
, and
secondary school
have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 709 the following new item:
Sec. 711. School security coordinating council.
.
