1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
21st Century Power Grid Act
.
2.
Grant program for grid modernization projects
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Energy shall establish a program to provide financial assistance to eligible partnerships to carry out projects related to the modernization of the electric grid, including—
(1)
projects for the deployment of technologies to improve monitoring of, advanced controls for, and prediction of performance of, a distribution system; and
(2)
projects related to transmission system planning and operation.
(b)
Eligible projects
Projects for which an eligible partnership may receive financial assistance under subsection (a)—
(1)
shall be designed to improve the resiliency, performance, or efficiency of the electric grid, while ensuring the continued provision of safe, secure, reliable, and affordable power;
(2)
may be designed to deploy a new product or technology that could be used by customers of an electric utility; and
(3)
shall demonstrate—
(A)
secure integration and management of energy resources, including through distributed energy generation, combined heat and power, microgrids, energy storage, electric vehicles, energy efficiency, demand response, or controllable loads; or
(B)
secure integration and interoperability of communications and information technologies related to the electric grid.
(c)
Cybersecurity plan
Each project carried out with financial assistance provided under subsection (a) shall include the development of a cybersecurity plan written in accordance with guidelines developed by the Secretary of Energy.
(d)
Privacy effects analysis
Each project carried out with financial assistance provided under subsection (a) shall include a privacy effects analysis that evaluates the project in accordance with the Voluntary Code of Conduct of the Department of Energy, commonly known as the
DataGuard Energy Data Privacy Program
, or the most recent revisions to the privacy program of the Department.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible partnership
The term
eligible partnership
means a partnership consisting of two or more entities, which—
(A)
may include—
(i)
any institution of higher education;
(ii)
a National Laboratory;
(iii)
a State or a local government or other public body created by or pursuant to State law;
(iv)
an Indian Tribe;
(v)
a Federal power marketing administration; or
(vi)
an entity that develops and provides technology; and
(B)
shall include at least one of any of—
(i)
an electric utility;
(ii)
a Regional Transmission Organization; or
(iii)
an Independent System Operator.
(2)
Electric utility
The term
electric utility
has the meaning given that term in section 3(22) of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 796(22)
), except that such term does not include an entity described in subparagraph (B) of such section.
(3)
Federal power marketing administration
The term
Federal power marketing administration
means the Bonneville Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, the Southwestern Power Administration, or the Western Area Power Administration.
(4)
Independent System Operator; Regional Transmission Organization
The terms
Independent System Operator
and
Regional Transmission Organization
have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 796
).
(5)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy to carry out this section $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to remain available until expended.
