1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Skill and Knowledge Investments Leverage Leaders’ Untapped Potential Tax Credit Act of 2020
or the
SKILL UP Act of 2020
.
2.
Work opportunity tax credit for participation in qualifying work-based learning programs
(a)
In general
Paragraph (1) of
section 51(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (J) and inserting
, or
, and by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
(K)
a qualified work-based learning participant.
.
(b)
Wages per year taken into account
Paragraph (3) of section 51(b) of such Code is amended by inserting
or who is a qualified work-based learning participant
after
subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii)(II)
.
(c)
Qualified Work-Based Learning Participant
Section 51(d) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following:
(16)
Qualified Work-Based Learning Participant
(A)
In general
The term
qualified work-based learning participant
means an individual who—
(i)
is a member of one of the targeted group referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (J) of paragraph (1), and
(ii)
enrolled in a qualifying work-based learning opportunity either—
(I)
within 3-month period beginning on the hiring date, or
(II)
in the case of a program described in subparagraph (B)(iii), during the six-month period prior to the hiring date.
(B)
Qualifying work-based learning opportunity
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term
qualifying work-based learning opportunity
means—
(i)
an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the National Apprenticeship Act; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.),
(ii)
a program that has been approved by the designated local agency and that may be provided directly by an employer, or in partnership with one or more training providers, in which—
(I)
the training is provided to individuals who are full-time employees of the employer,
(II)
training consists of on the job instruction or a combination of on the job and classroom instruction, and
(III)
successful completion of the training program, or modules of the training program—
(aa)
provides for an increase in hourly wages for the employee, and
(bb)
may provide for the attainment of a recognized postsecondary credential (as defined under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act), and
(iii)
a program that has been approved by the designated local agency as under clause (ii) in which a third party serves as employer of record for purposes of operating an approved program with the participating employer.
.
(d)
Credit for tax-Exempt employers for employment of qualified work-Based learning participants
(1)
In general
Paragraph (1) of section 3111(e) of such Code is amended by inserting
or qualified work-based learning participant
after
qualified veteran
both places it appears.
(2)
Overall limitation
Paragraph (2) of section 3111(e) of such Code is amended by inserting
or qualified work-based learning participants
after
qualified veterans
.
(3)
Applicable period
Paragraph (4) of section 3111(e) of such Code is amended by inserting
or qualified work-based learning participant
after
qualified veteran
both places it appears.
(4)
Definitions
Paragraph (5) of section 3111(e) of such Code is amended by striking
and
at the end of subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
, and
, and by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
the term
qualified work-based learning participant
has the meaning given such term by section 51(d)(16).
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to wages paid after 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, with respect to enrollment in qualifying work-based learning programs beginning after such date.
