1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Educators are Heroes Act
.
2.
Educator premium pay
(a)
In general
Not later than 15 days after a local educational agency receives a grant under subsection (b), the local educational agency, for the duration of the emergency period, shall provide to each educator for each hour that the educator works, in-person at a public school served by the agency with premium pay equal to 25 percent of the educator’s wage per hour.
(b)
Educator Fund
(1)
In general
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Educator Fund” (referred to in this section as the “Fund”), consisting of amounts appropriated to the fund under subsection (c).
(2)
Fund administration
The fund shall be administered by the Secretary of Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Education.
(3)
Use of funds
(A)
In general
Amounts in the Fund shall be available to award a grant to each local educational agency that applies for a grant under subparagraph (B), for the purpose of providing premium pay under subsection (a).
(B)
Application
Any local educational agency seeking a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary of the Treasury at such time, in such manner, and complete with such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Authorization and appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is hereby appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, to remain available until expended.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Educator
The term
educator
includes teachers and other staff.
(2)
Emergency period
The term
emergency period
means the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, and ending on the last day of the public health emergency first declared on January 31, 2020, by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) with respect to COVID–19.
(3)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
,
local educational agency
,
other staff
, and
secondary school
have the meaning given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(4)
Public school
The term
public school
means a public elementary school or secondary school.
