1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the “
Strengthening and Enhancing Cybersecurity Usage to Reach Every Small Business Act
” or the “
SECURE Small Business Act
”.
2.
Cybersecurity cooperative marketplace program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall establish a program to assist small business concerns with purchasing cybersecurity products and services.
(b)
Duties
In the program established under subsection (a), the Administrator shall do the following:
(1)
Educate small business concerns about the types of cybersecurity products and services that are specific to each covered industry sector.
(2)
Provide outreach to covered vendors and small business concerns to encourage use of the cooperative marketplace described in subsection (c).
(c)
Cooperative marketplace for purchasing cybersecurity products and services
The Administrator shall—
(1)
establish and maintain a website that—
(A)
is free to use for small business concerns and covered vendors; and
(B)
provides a cooperative marketplace that facilitates the creation of mutual agreements under which small business concerns cooperatively purchase cybersecurity products and services from covered vendors; and
(2)
determine whether each covered vendor and each small business concern that participates in the marketplace described in this subsection is legitimate, as determined by the Administrator.
(d)
Sunset
This section ceases to be effective on September 30, 2024.
3.
GAO study on available Federal cybersecurity initiatives
(a)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study that identifies any improvements that could be made to Federal initiatives that—
(1)
train small business concerns how to avoid cybersecurity threats; and
(2)
are in effect on the date on which the Comptroller General commences the study.
(b)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report that contains the results of the study required under subsection (a).
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Covered industry sector
The term
covered industry sector
means the following industry sectors:
(A)
Accommodation and food services.
(B)
Agriculture.
(C)
Construction.
(D)
Healthcare and social assistance.
(E)
Retail and wholesale trade.
(F)
Transportation and warehousing.
(G)
Entertainment and recreation.
(H)
Finance and insurance.
(I)
Manufacturing.
(J)
Information and telecommunications.
(K)
Any other industry sector the Administrator determines to be relevant.
(3)
Covered vendor
The term
covered vendor
means a vendor of cybersecurity products and services, including cybersecurity risk insurance.
(4)
Cybersecurity
The term
cybersecurity
means—
(A)
the art of protecting networks, devices, and data from unauthorized access or criminal use; and
(B)
the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.
(5)
Cybersecurity threat
The term
cybersecurity threat
means the possibility of a malicious attempt to infiltrate, damage, disrupt, or destroy computer networks or systems.
(6)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(a)
).
