118 HRES 1591 IH: Recognizing November 2024 as “National Family Caregivers Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-11-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1591
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 21, 2024
Mr. Evans
(for himself,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
,
Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida
,
Ms. Lee of Pennsylvania
,
Ms. Dean of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
, and
Ms. Norton
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
, and in addition to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce
, and
Ways and Means
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing November 2024 as
National Family Caregivers Month
.
Whereas, in 2020, over 53,000,000 family caregivers in the United States provide essential care to millions of people each year, providing unpaid care worth an estimated $600,000,000,000 annually;
Whereas family caregivers play a vital role in the health care system of the United States, supporting loved ones who have chronic illnesses, disabilities, and are aging;
Whereas family caregivers, who are disproportionately women of color and include grandparents who care for children when parents are unable to do so, often face significant challenges including financial strain, physical and emotional exhaustion, and social isolation;
Whereas the number of family caregivers is projected to rapidly increase due to growing populations of older adults and people with disabilities, the long-standing shortage of direct care workers, and the lack of affordable, accessible child care for children with disabilities; and
Whereas
National Family Caregivers Month
is an opportunity to recognize and appreciate the contributions of family caregivers of all ages and to advocate for policies that support family caregivers: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes
National Family Caregivers Month
;
(2)
commends the over 53,000,000 family caregivers in the United States who provide essential care to their loved ones and chosen family each day;
(3)
encourages Federal agencies, States, and the private sector to swiftly implement the remaining steps and build upon the current progress of the steps described in the 2022 National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers;
(4)
encourages policies and strategies to support family caregivers as person- and family- centered, trauma-informed, and culturally appropriate;
(5)
urges investment in policies that support family caregivers, including—
(A)
economic tax credits;
(B)
paid family and medical leave;
(C)
respite care;
(D)
home and community-based services; and
(E)
access to quality health care; and
(6)
encourages all people of the United States to learn more about family caregiving and to support their loved ones and neighbors who are providing care.
