118 HRES 446 IH: Recognizing on Memorial Day, May 29, 2023, the denial of full participation in their Government through statehood by active duty servicemembers, National Guard members, reservists, veterans, and their families who are residents of the District of Columbia.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 446
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 25, 2023
Ms. Norton
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Recognizing on Memorial Day, May 29, 2023, the denial of full participation in their Government through statehood by active duty servicemembers, National Guard members, reservists, veterans, and their families who are residents of the District of Columbia.
Whereas, on the last Monday of May, the Nation observes Memorial Day, a Federal holiday commemorating the members of the Armed Forces who died in the service of their country;
Whereas the service and sacrifice of active duty servicemembers, National Guard members, reservists, veterans, and their families are unparalleled;
Whereas active duty servicemembers, National Guard members, reservists, and veterans have risked life and limb to protect the American people and uphold the rights and freedoms of the people of the United States;
Whereas approximately 30,000 veterans are residents of the District of Columbia and do not have voting representation in the Congress of the United States or full local self-government in the District of Columbia;
Whereas residents of the District of Columbia fought in the Revolutionary War, which resulted in the creation of the United States and was fought under the slogan of
no taxation without representation
, and have served in every war since;
Whereas 635 District of Columbia residents were casualties of World War I, a casualty figure greater than that observed by 3 different States during that war;
Whereas 3,575 District of Columbia residents were casualties of World War II, a casualty figure greater than that observed by 4 different States during that war;
Whereas 547 District of Columbia residents were casualties of the Korean war, a casualty figure greater than that observed by 8 different States during that war;
Whereas 243 District of Columbia residents were casualties of the Vietnam war, a casualty figure greater than that observed by 10 different States during that war;
Whereas almost 200,000 District of Columbia residents have served in the military since World War I;
Whereas, the District of Columbia statehood bill, H.R. 51, the Washington, D.C. Admission Act, has 192 cosponsors; and
Whereas S. 51, the Washington, D.C. Admission Act, has 45 cosponsors: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
District of Columbia residents have earned full and equal representation in the House of Representatives and Senate and full local self-government; and
(2)
on Memorial Day, the House of Representatives recognizes that active duty servicemembers, National Guard members, reservists, veterans, and their families who are residents of the District of Columbia deserve passage of the Washington, D.C. Admission Act.
