118 HRES 689 IH: Expressing the support of the House of Representatives for the designation of “Public Radio Music Day” and its deep appreciation for the role of public radio music stations in serving listeners, musicians, and hundreds of communities in the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 689
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 14, 2023
Ms. Scanlon
(for herself,
Mr. Amodei
,
Mr. Blumenauer
,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Mr. Pappas
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Ms. Norton
,
Ms. Lee of Nevada
,
Mr. Evans
,
Mr. Payne
,
Mr. Bergman
,
Mr. Morelle
,
Ms. Houlahan
, and
Mr. McGovern
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Expressing the support of the House of Representatives for the designation of
Public Radio Music Day
and its deep appreciation for the role of public radio music stations in serving listeners, musicians, and hundreds of communities in the United States.
Whereas more than 25,500,000 listeners in the United States tune in weekly to local noncommercial radio stations to discover, learn about, and enjoy music selections, artists, and genres that are, in many cases, available only on public radio;
Whereas some 697 public radio music stations serve rural and urban communities alike in all 50 States plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam;
Whereas local public radio music stations celebrate a broad collection of sounds and styles, including jazz, blues, classical, Americana, urban alternative, folk, roots, bluegrass, and other regional and eclectic genres;
Whereas 95 percent of over-the-air broadcasts of classical music in the United States comes from local public radio stations;
Whereas local, noncommercial, not-for-profit public radio music stations are an essential and indispensable force in developing artists and audiences, sustaining music and performers, and educating and enriching their audiences and communities;
Whereas local public radio music stations are locally staffed and programmed, connected to the unique culture of their community, and share core values of music discovery, curation, preservation, and performance with their audiences;
Whereas knowledgeable local hosts, live announcers, and expert curation on public radio music stations have a proven track record of helping audiences discover new and emerging homegrown musicians and providing deep explorations into music’s history and cultural impact;
Whereas public radio music stations tailor their content and programming to reflect regional tastes and talent, make music more accessible through local performances, studio sessions, artist interviews, and music journalism, and broadcast news and information about the local music industry;
Whereas public radio music stations connect musicians and artists with local audiences through an expanding range of platforms, including free over-the-air broadcasts, live streaming, podcasts, video platforms, emerging digital platforms, and on stage;
Whereas public radio’s emphasis on music presentation enables music education, adding to the journey of lifelong music enjoyment;
Whereas public radio music stations serve as cultural hubs in their communities by providing a place for listeners of diverse backgrounds and ages to come together for the shared thrill of music and to support the local music economy;
Whereas noncommercial music stations serve as cultural hubs in their communities by providing a place for listeners of diverse backgrounds and ages to come together for the shared thrill of music and to support the local music economy;
Whereas local public radio stations partner with schools, hospitals, and other community organizations to provide instruments and experience with music to underserved populations and promote broad access to music in the public square;
Whereas public radio music’s combination of values and collective commitment to community service, education, and cultural support separates these nonprofit, noncommercial radio stations from other music providers; and
Whereas October 25, 2023, would be an appropriate day to designate as
Public Radio Music Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Public Radio Music Day
; and
(2)
expresses its deep appreciation for the role of public radio music stations in serving listeners, musicians, and hundreds of communities in the United States.
