118 HRES 1191 IH: Expressing support for the designation of May 4, 2024, as a ГўВҖВңNational Day of ReasonГўВҖВқ and recognizing the central importance of reason in the betterment of humanity.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1191
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 1, 2024
Mr. Raskin
(for himself,
Mr. Huffman
,
Ms. Norton
, and
Ms. Brownley
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of May 4, 2024, as a
National Day of Reason
and recognizing the central importance of reason in the betterment of humanity.
Whereas the application of reason has been the essential precondition for humanityГўВҖВҷs extraordinary scientific, medical, technological, and social progress since before the founding of the United States;
Whereas reason provides vital hope today for confronting the environmental crises of today, includingГўВҖВ”
(1)
the civilizational emergency of climate change;
(2)
for advancing civil liberties for all, including the rights of LGBTQIA+ individuals and access to all reproductive health care such as in-vitro fertilization, contraception, and abortion; and
(3)
for cultivating the rule of law, democratic institutions, justice, and peace among nations;
Whereas AmericaГўВҖВҷs Founders insisted upon the primacy of reason and knowledge in public life, and drafted the Constitution to prevent official establishment of religion and to protect freedom of thought, speech, and inquiry in civil society;
Whereas James Madison, author of the First Amendment and fourth President of the United States, stated,
The advancement and diffusion of knowledge is the only guardian of true liberty
, and
Knowledge will forever govern ignorance, and a people who mean to be their own governors, must arm themselves with the power knowledge gives
; and
Whereas May 4, 2024, would be an appropriate date to designate as a
National Day of Reason
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of RepresentativesГўВҖВ”
(1)
supports the designation of a
National Day of Reason
; and
(2)
encourages all citizens, residents, and visitors to join in observing this day and focusing on the central importance of reason, critical thought, the scientific method, and free inquiry to resolving social problems and promoting the welfare of humankind.
