118 HRES 867 IH: Expressing support for the designation of November 9, 2023, as “National Microtia and Atresia Awareness Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 867
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 13, 2023
Mr. Neguse
(for himself,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mr. Allred
,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
,
Ms. Chu
,
Mr. Cleaver
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. Pettersen
,
Mr. Tonko
, and
Mr. Trone
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of November 9, 2023, as
National Microtia and Atresia Awareness Day
.
Whereas microtia is a congenital anomaly, affecting the outer ear, where the ear does not fully develop during the first trimester of pregnancy;
Whereas microtia is often accompanied by aural atresia, which is the absence or closure of the external auditory ear canal resulting in hearing loss;
Whereas it is estimated that there are 750,000 people worldwide with microtia;
Whereas microtia is diagnosed at birth, affecting one ear or both ears, but there is no understanding as to why microtia occurs;
Whereas aural atresia is usually diagnosed at birth, affecting one ear or both ears, but in some cases may not be recognized until later in life;
Whereas doctors and nurses may be informed of microtia and aural atresia, in certain settings, the conditions are rare enough that misinformation or lack of information on options and services, quickly evaporates any remaining sense of celebration that accompanies a birth; and
Whereas living with facial challenges such as craniofacial microsomia and hearing loss, as well as the longing for social acceptance, are some of the daily concerns for individuals who are born with microtia or aural atresia: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the designation of
National Microtia and Atresia Awareness Day
;
(2)
encourages each person of the United States—
(A)
to celebrate the community that is made up of not only children and adults with microtia or aural atresia, but families, teachers, advocates, and medical professionals from around the world who foster awareness and assistance; and
(B)
to help promote public awareness of microtia, aural atresia, and the hope that future generations of families will leave the hospital equipped with more answers than questions, along with their dreams for their child intact;
(3)
supports efforts to remove unnecessary barriers and replace them with resources and tools that aim to eliminate bullying and clear the way for an even more successful future for those with microtia or atresia;
(4)
encourages Federal, State, and local policymakers to work together—
(A)
to raise awareness about microtia and aural atresia;
(B)
to improve proper diagnosis of microtia and aural atresia; and
(C)
to support advancements in technology that improve the lives of those with microtia and aural atresia; and
(5)
encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate awareness and educational activities.
