118 HRES 1297 IH: Recognizing National Black Brewers Day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1297
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 13, 2024
Mr. Horsford
(for himself and
Ms. Williams of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Recognizing National Black Brewers Day.
Whereas the Congressional Black Caucus understands that the rich tapestry of the Nation is woven with the vibrant threads of diversity;
Whereas throughout history, African Americans have made significant contributions to the culture, economy, and social fabric of the Nation, and have played an integral role in shaping the brewing industry;
Whereas the craft beer industry has experienced remarkable growth and innovation, and African American brewers have emerged as talented artisans, creating unique and exceptional brews that showcase their passion, creativity, and dedication;
Whereas, on October 10, 1970, Theodore A. (Ted) Mack, Sr. and business associates celebrated the purchase of Peoples Brewing Company in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, with over 2,000 guests, including stockholders, local and state legislators, and notable dignitaries;
Whereas Mr. Mack became the first Black brewery president in the United States, and Peoples Brewing Company became the first Black-owned brewery in the history of the United States;
Whereas the National Black Brewers Association was formed as a non-profit organization in 2022 to support, promote, and develop the black brewing community;
Whereas it is essential to recognize and celebrate the achievements and contributions of Black brewers who have overcome challenges and barriers to establish themselves as pillars of the craft beer community, inspiring others, and breaking down barriers of racial inequality;
Whereas the establishment of National Black Brewers Day provides an opportunity for people in the United States to acknowledge, honor, and support the accomplishments of Black brewers, to raise awareness about the diversity within the brewing industry, and to foster a spirit of inclusion and equality; and
Whereas celebrating National Black Brewers Day will encourage individuals and communities to discover and appreciate the exceptional craftsmanship and unique flavors that Black brewers bring to the brewing industry: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
encourages Congress, the President of the United States, and individual States to recognize National Black Brewers Day; and
(2)
that a copy of this resolution be transmitted to the President of the United States, the Vice President of the United States, members of the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate, and other Federal and State government officials as appropriate.
