118 HRES 997 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to the legacy of Bob Marley.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-02-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 997
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 5, 2024
Ms. Clarke of New York
(for herself,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Ms. Velázquez
, and
Mr. Payne
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to the legacy of Bob Marley.
Whereas Robert Nesta Marley was born on February 6, 1945, in Nine Miles, St. Ann, Jamaica, and died on May 11, 1981;
Whereas Bob Marley received the Order of Merit for distinguished achievements for the promotion of culture;
Whereas Bob Marley delineation for Jamaican culture advocates for peace and unity, through the influence of reggae set the foundation for socially aware lyrics;
Whereas Bob Marley is not only celebrated for his timeless music, but for his vibrant legacy promoting love, unity, and social justice;
Whereas Bob Marley and the Wailers were founded in 1963 through the leadership of Marley and two others, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer;
Whereas the formation served as the hallmark for reggae music, which is recognized as the voice of the oppressed;
Whereas the harmonious anthem
One Love
is globally recognized, as it echoes the principles of interconnectedness through all things;
Whereas soundtracks like
Redemption Song
and
No Woman, No Cry
serve as profound influences through creative artistry;
Whereas Bob Marley fought to transcend Jamaica as natives and political leaders joined in 1978 at the headlined event One Love Peace Concert, to restore peace throughout the Caribbean island; and
Whereas Bob Marley, the reggae ambassador, served as a tremendous influence in fighting oppression through orchestrated impact: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives honors—
(1)
Bob Marley and his remarkably transcends boundaries of international influence which has connected listeners through his earnest legacy; and
(2)
how his art and culture illustrated intellectual influence on human experiences.
