118 HRES 31 IH: Honoring Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, on reaching the historic milestone of 115 years of serving communities.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-01-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 31
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 12, 2023
Ms. Adams
(for herself,
Ms. Norton
,
Ms. Jackson Lee
,
Ms. Sewell
,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Ms. Underwood
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
, and
Mrs. Sykes
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Honoring Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, on reaching the historic milestone of 115 years of serving communities.
Whereas Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, was founded on January 15, 1908, at Howard University in Washington, DC, by Ethel Hedgemon, Anna Easter Brown, Beulah Elizabeth Burke, Lillie E. Burke, Marjorie Hill, Margaret Flagg, Lavinia Norman, Lucy Diggs Slowe, and Marie Woolfolk;
Whereas these 9 young women founded Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, on the 5 original core tenets: to cultivate and encourage high scholastic and ethical standards; to promote unity and friendship among college women; to study and help alleviate problems concerning girls and women in order to improve their social stature; to maintain a progressive interest in college life; and to be of
Service to All Mankind
;
Whereas Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, was successfully incorporated on January 29, 1913;
Whereas, since its founding in 1908, Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, membership now includes over 1,000 chapters internationally, with more than 120,000 active members, and has initiated more than 325,000 members worldwide;
Whereas Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, is dedicated to implementing programs of service that enhance the well-being of local, national, and international communities;
Whereas the theme of that service program for 2022–2026 is
Soaring to Greater Heights of Service & Sisterhood
and will involve 6 initiatives, namely—
(1)
Strengthen Our Sisterhood;
(2)
Empower Our Families;
(3)
Build Our Economic Wealth;
(4)
Enhance Our Environment;
(5)
Advocate for Social Justice; and
(6)
Uplift Our Local Community;
Whereas Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®’s present administration looks to use each of these initiatives to empower members to lead on the front lines of change, education, and advocacy; and
Whereas, among its many accomplished members, Vice President Kamala Harris, the first woman to occupy the Office of the Vice President of the United States, is a proud member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives congratulates and commends Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.®, on 115 years of service.
