118 HRES 1382 IH: Expressing the need of all Americans, even when they care most deeply or disagree most strongly, to settle their political differences without resorting to threats or violence of any kind.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-07-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1382
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 24, 2024
Mr. Krishnamoorthi
(for himself and
Mr. Wenstrup
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing the need of all Americans, even when they care most deeply or disagree most strongly, to settle their political differences without resorting to threats or violence of any kind.
Whereas, over the past decade, there has been a steady increase in political violence across the United States;
Whereas, on January 8, 2011, a domestic terrorist opened fire on then—Representative Gabby Giffords and killed 6 people and injured 12 others;
Whereas, on June 14, 2017, a domestic terrorist opened fire on Republican members of Congress at a baseball practice, gravely wounding Representative Steve Scalise and staff who were present;
Whereas threats made against election officials, judges, and lawmakers have increased nearly tenfold since 2016 according to United States Capitol Police;
Whereas political violence poses an existential threat to democracy and American ideals;
Whereas the assassination attempt against former President Donald J. Trump must be categorically condemned by everyone who believes in democracy;
Whereas President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., said,
There is no place in America for this kind of violence. We must unite as a nation to condemn it
;
Whereas former President Donald J. Trump said,
In this moment, it is more important than ever that we stand United, and show our True Character as Americans, remaining Strong and Determined, and not allowing Evil to Win
; and
Whereas the threat of potential spiraling violence after former President Trump’s assassination attempt are a threat to United States ideals: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives to recognizes the critical need for political leaders of both parties and at all levels of government, to condemn political violence consistently and often.
