118 HRES 928 IH: Honoring the victims of the mass shooting at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas on December 6, 2023.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-12-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 928
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 12, 2023
Ms. Titus
(for herself,
Ms. Lee of Nevada
, and
Mr. Horsford
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Honoring the victims of the mass shooting at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas on December 6, 2023.
Whereas, on December 6, 2023, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV) students, faculty, and staff were preparing for the end of the Fall 2023 Semester;
Whereas just before 12:00 p.m. local time, the first call came into University Police Services Southern Command about an active shooter at Frank and Estella Beam Hall on UNLV’s campus;
Whereas the three victims who tragically died were:
(1)
Cha Jan “Jerry” Chang, 64, a professor in the Department of Management, Entrepreneurship, and Technology in UNLV's Lee Business School. A devoted UNLV colleague for more than 20 years, Jerry was known for his even-keeled, positive, and unwavering presence;
(2)
Patricia Navarro-Velez, 39, an assistant professor of accounting at the university and a mother of four, who devoted her career to educating the next generation of business professionals, particularly among underserved and minority populations. Patricia is remembered by her “infectious smile” and “larger than life personality”; and
(3)
Naoko Takemaru, 69, an associate professor of Japanese studies, and a noted author, academic, and award-winning educator who was in her 20th year of teaching at UNLV. Naoko’s colleagues remembered her as “lionhearted in kindness.”
Whereas one wounded victim still remains in the hospital with life-threatening injuries;
Whereas, within 78 seconds, University Police responded to the incident;
Whereas, at 11:55 a.m., plain-clothed University Police Detective Nathaniel Drum and Officer Damian Garcia engaged with the shooter outside of Beam Hall, neutralized the threat to the campus, and undoubtedly saved countless lives;
Whereas the entire Southern Nevada police and emergency services apparatus sprang into action to respond and protect the community, including individuals from Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, Henderson Police Department, Clark County School District Police, Boulder City Police Department, North Las Vegas Police Department, Clark County Fire Department as well as federal law enforcement partners from the U.S. Marshals Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and Drug Enforcement Agency;
Whereas Southern Nevada has unfortunately been the location of several mass shootings, including the horrific shooting on October 1, 2017, which claimed the lives of 58 individuals;
Whereas, in 2023 alone, the U.S. has experienced approximately 40,000 deaths due to gun violence; and
Whereas we must come together to enact commonsense gun violence prevention reform.
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
Condemns the horrific act of gun violence that claimed the lives of three UNLV professors and injured another faculty member on December 6, 2023;
(2)
Honors the memory and legacy of the innocent victims and offers heartfelt condolences and support to their families;
(3)
Stands in solidarity with the entire UNLV community as it grapples with this tragedy; and
(4)
Commends the first responders for their heroic, selfless acts in response to the shooting.
