118 HRES 718 IH: Expressing support for the designation of September 23, 2023, as national “Bruce Springsteen Day”, and honoring his contributions to music, New Jersey, and the Nation.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 718
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 21, 2023
Mr. Menendez
(for himself,
Mr. Norcross
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Mr. Pascrell
,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Mr. Pallone
,
Mr. Casten
,
Mr. McGovern
,
Ms. Sherrill
,
Mr. Payne
, and
Mr. Kim of New Jersey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of September 23, 2023, as national
Bruce Springsteen Day
, and honoring his contributions to music, New Jersey, and the Nation.
Whereas Bruce Springsteen is known as the
The Boss
because of his extraordinary leadership of the E Street Band and musical talent;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen was born on September 23, 1949, in Long Branch, New Jersey;
Whereas the New Jersey State Legislature passed and Governor Phil Murphy signed a formal proclamation designating September 23d as
Bruce Springsteen Day
;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen received his first guitar at the age of 13 and has
learned how to make it talk
for the next 60 years;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen’s career has shaped American music and culture with themes of working-class struggles, economic and racial inequality, and achieving the American Dream;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen has uplifted the challenges, contributions, and tremendous courage of everyday Americans, such as factory workers, first responders, and veterans, giving them a voice that will be heard through his work for generations;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama and National Medal of Arts by President Joe Biden for his contributions to arts and culture and for
capturing the unyielding spirit of what it means to be American
;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen was inducted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame in 2008 for his musical influence and philanthropic work for the Garden State;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen’s breakout album
Born to Run
reached number 3 on the Billboard 200 and sold 7,000,000 copies in the United States;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen brought the style and genre of
heartland rock
music to prominence in the United States and on the international stage following his hit
Born in the U.S.A.
in 1984;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen’s album
The Rising
, released in 2002, helped Americans heal in the aftermath of the attacks on September 11, 2001;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen has released 21 studio albums and sold over 150,000,000 records worldwide;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen has earned 50 Grammy nominations and taken home 20 Grammy Awards;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen supports numerous causes and charities and founded 2 organizations focused on helping low-income families;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen’s storytelling talent and ability to connect with audiences around the world bridged divides and uplifted our common humanity;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen serves as a testament to the healing powers of music for millions of people who seek refuge from the daily hardships of life;
Whereas Bruce Springsteen has been an innovative and relevant artist throughout his entire career and continues to release albums that challenge us to think critically about the world around us, inspiring legions of fans and Americans to keep asking the important questions; and
Whereas September 23, 2023, is Bruce Springsteen’s birthday: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
Bruce Springsteen Day
; and
(2)
honors Bruce Springsteen’s contributions to music, New Jersey, and the Nation.
