118 HRES 1613 IH: Recognizing the importance of a continued commitment to ending pediatric HIV/AIDS worldwide.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-12-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1613
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 10, 2024
Ms. McClellan
(for herself,
Mr. Swalwell
,
Ms. Garcia of Texas
,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Mr. Quigley
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. Ross
,
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Mr. Jackson of Illinois
,
Ms. Velázquez
,
Ms. Sewell
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mr. Garamendi
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mrs. McIver
,
Mr. Veasey
,
Ms. Kelly of Illinois
,
Ms. Clarke of New York
,
Mr. McGovern
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Mr. Davis of Illinois
,
Mr. Krishnamoorthi
,
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
, and
Mr. Thompson of Mississippi
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the importance of a continued commitment to ending pediatric HIV/AIDS worldwide.
Whereas approximately half of the 39,000,000 people living with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the pathogen that causes the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), worldwide are women and girls, and 1,400,000 are children in 2023;
Whereas HIV is a leading cause of death among women of childbearing age worldwide;
Whereas AIDS is a leading cause of death among adolescent girls globally;
Whereas women around the world rely on essential pre- and post-natal care to provide screening for diseases such as HIV and care for their health and the health of their infants;
Whereas, when antiretroviral drugs are used as prophylaxis, mother-to-child transmission of HIV can be reduced to less than 5 percent;
Whereas, in 2005, only 17 percent of pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV were receiving treatment and services for prevention of mother-to-child transmission and that number in 2023 was 84 percent;
Whereas 44 percent of new HIV infections globally are among women and girls in 2023;
Whereas, globally, 67 percent of infants born to pregnant women living with HIV receive a virologic test within the first two months of birth;
Whereas, without treatment half of all children with HIV will die by their second birthday, and 80 percent by their fifth birthday;
Whereas, in 2018, nearly 90 percent of pregnant women living with HIV in need of HIV services worldwide live in sub-Saharan Africa;
Whereas 86 percent of children living with HIV are in sub-Saharan Africa;
Whereas, despite increased global and United States efforts, over 110,000 children in Sub-Saharan Africa became infected with HIV in 2022;
Whereas progress in meeting the global 95-95-95 treatment targets by 2030, which calls for 95 percent of those living with HIV to know their status; 95 percent of those who know their status to be on treatment; and 95 percent of those on treatment to be virally suppressed and sustained, is slower among children than adults;
Whereas 57 percent of children living with HIV were on life-saving antiretroviral therapy in 2023 compared to 77 percent of adults globally;
Whereas 76,000 children died of AIDS-related causes in 2023;
Whereas, every week, approximately 4,000 adolescent girls and young women aged 15 to 24 years became infected with HIV globally in 2023, and 3,100 of these infections occurred in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Whereas research efforts at the National Institutes of Health have led to extraordinary breakthroughs for children infected with and at risk for contracting HIV;
Whereas the United States began investing in prevention of mother-to-child transmission services in 2002 with the announcement of the United States International Mother and Child HIV Prevention Initiative;
Whereas, in January 2024, the United States celebrated the 21st anniversary of the establishment of PEPFAR;
Whereas, in fiscal year 2023, PEPFAR supported HIV testing and counseling for more than 71,100,000 people and since the program’s inception the provision of antiretroviral drug prophylaxis to prevent mother-to-child transmission has allowed nearly 5,500,000 babies to be born HIV free;
Whereas the PEPFAR DREAMS initiative is working to reduce new HIV infections in adolescent and young women in 15 sub-Saharan countries;
Whereas every mother should have the opportunity to fight for the life of her child; and
Whereas every child and adolescent should have access to medicines to lead a long and healthy life: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes that the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV is critical to stopping the spread of HIV worldwide;
(2)
recognizes that the fight to eliminate pediatric HIV worldwide has been a priority area for the United States in its global AIDS response for more than 21 years and calls on this leadership to continue;
(3)
supports providing adolescents and young women with the evidence-based approaches necessary to prevent new HIV infections;
(4)
supports providing women and children with HIV counseling and testing services where possible, and scaling up access to services and medicines that prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV and ensure HIV positive mothers survive and thrive;
(5)
supports scaling up of treatment for HIV for children and adolescents including greater access to more efficacious antiretroviral drug regimens, age appropriate services, and support for their caregivers;
(6)
applauds the United States leadership on efforts to eliminate new pediatric HIV infections and to scale-up pediatric treatment through programs and research;
(7)
encourages the United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief to continue its leadership through the creation of a standalone pediatric HIV strategy that is in alignment with the priority actions for children as defined in the
Global AIDS Strategy 2021–2026
; and
(8)
reaffirms the United States commitment to lead the world to the end of AIDS, to eliminate new pediatric HIV infections worldwide, and support women, children, adolescents, and families infected and affected by HIV.
