118 HRES 1544 IH: Expressing support for the designation of September 22, 2024, as “National Hispanic Nurses Day” and recognizing the National Association of Hispanic Nurses as the leading organization representing and advocating for Hispanic nurses.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-10-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1544
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 15, 2024
Ms. Barragán
(for herself,
Mr. García of Illinois
,
Mr. Horsford
,
Mr. Carbajal
,
Mr. Cárdenas
,
Mr. Correa
,
Mr. Costa
,
Ms. Escobar
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Mrs. Ramirez
,
Ms. Salinas
,
Ms. Sánchez
,
Mr. Soto
,
Mr. Takano
,
Mr. Vargas
, and
Ms. Velázquez
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of September 22, 2024, as
National Hispanic Nurses Day
and recognizing the National Association of Hispanic Nurses as the leading organization representing and advocating for Hispanic nurses.
Whereas Hispanic nurses play a critical role in the health care system and continue to make significant contributions to the Nation’s health;
Whereas Hispanic nurses provide culturally and ethnically competent care, addressing the unique needs of diverse communities and leading efforts in reducing health care disparities;
Whereas Hispanic nurses are well-positioned to provide leadership in eliminating health care disparities, especially in underserved Hispanic communities through their advocacy, education, and clinical expertise;
Whereas, since 1975, the National Association of Hispanic Nurses (NAHN), with chapters throughout 24 States and growing, has been the premier organization representing Hispanic nurses (RNs/LPNs/APNs) and advancing the health of Hispanic communities across the United States, leading advocacy efforts and promoting educational, professional, and leadership opportunities for Hispanic nurses;
Whereas, since September is the month set aside to honor the contributions of Hispanics, it is only fitting that Hispanic nurses, who have made significant contributions to their community and country, be recognized and honored;
Whereas the designation of National Hispanic Nurses Day will raise awareness of the vital role Hispanic nurses play in the health care system and help pave the way for the continued essential work of NAHN in advancing health care for Hispanic communities;
Whereas, each February, NAHN convenes over 100 nursing leaders from academia, research, education, and practice in Washington, DC, for a Day on Capitol Hill to promote critical legislation that improves the health and well-being of Hispanic communities across the United States;
Whereas Hispanic nurses serve as key allies to Congress, working closely with legislators to improve the education, retention, recruitment, and practice of all nurses, particularly in advocating for the health and safety of underserved Hispanic communities;
Whereas Hispanic nurses add needed diversity to the nursing profession and continue to be pivotal in supporting the needs of underserved and underresourced communities, particularly those severely impacted by COVID–19 pandemic; and
Whereas NAHN has positioned itself as the primary voice and go-to resource for advocating on behalf of Hispanic nurses and communities, especially in addressing health care challenges in a post-COVID era: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals, and the designation, of National Hispanic Nurses Day, as proposed by the National Association of Hispanic Nurses, recognizing the National Association of Hispanic Nurses as the leading organization representing Hispanic nurses;
(2)
recognizes the significant contributions of Hispanic nurses and the National Association of Hispanic Nurses’ leadership in promoting health care equity and eliminating health care disparities in Hispanic communities across the United States; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to observe National Hispanic Nurses Day with appropriate recognition ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate the importance of Hispanic nurses and the National Association of Hispanic Nurses’ continued leadership in health care advocacy and cultural competence.
