118 HRES 1502 IH: Expressing support for the designation of October 1, 2024, as “National Latino Physician Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1502
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 25, 2024
Ms. Caraveo
(for herself,
Mr. Ruiz
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Mr. Costa
,
Ms. Barragán
,
Mr. Soto
,
Mrs. Napolitano
,
Mr. Vicente Gonzalez of Texas
,
Ms. Salinas
, and
Mr. Cárdenas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of October 1, 2024, as
National Latino Physician Day
.
Whereas the Latino and Latina population in the United States will rise from 42 million individuals in 2005 to 128 million individuals by 2050;
Whereas Latinos and Latinas comprise 60 percent of the population growth in the United States;
Whereas, by 2050, Latinos and Latinas will account for more than 1 in 4 individuals in the United States and 1 in 3 children in the United States;
Whereas only 6 percent of physicians in the United States are Latino or Latina;
Whereas only 2 percent of physicians in the United States are Latina;
Whereas the Latino and Latina population faces significant barriers to medical care, including high poverty, fewer facilities in Latino and Latina communities, and language and cultural barriers;
Whereas a lack of diversity in the medical field leads to worse health outcomes for Latino and Latina patients, including higher rates of chronic disease and maternal mortality;
Whereas research shows that when physicians are of the same ethnicity, culture, and language as the patients of such physicians, care and outcomes improve;
Whereas the health of the Nation depends on increasing diversity in medicine and increasing the number of Latino and Latina physicians;
Whereas the first National Latino Physician Day occurred across the United States on October 1, 2022, and was supported by multiple national organizations and the Latino and Latina community, including premedical students, resident physicians, and attending physicians; and
Whereas the designation of October 1, 2024, as National Latino Physician Day will bring awareness to the benefits Latino and Latina physicians bring to the growing Latino and Latina population and the health of the United States as a whole: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals of increasing the number of Latino and Latina physicians in the United States and increasing diversity in the medical field; and
(2)
supports the designation of National Latino Physician Day.
