118 HRES 1202 IH: Expressing support for the recognition of May 5 through May 11, 2024, as Wildfire Preparedness Week, the national event educating the public on fire safety and preparedness, and supporting the goals of a Wildfire Preparedness Week.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1202
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 6, 2024
Mrs. Torres of California
(for herself,
Mr. Huffman
, and
Ms. Jacobs
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the recognition of May 5 through May 11, 2024, as Wildfire Preparedness Week, the national event educating the public on fire safety and preparedness, and supporting the goals of a Wildfire Preparedness Week.
Whereas Wildfire Preparedness Week increases awareness of the threat of wildfires and knowledge of lifesaving tactics;
Whereas Wildfire Preparedness Week, like other designated weeks or days for natural disasters, promotes educational initiatives, encourages community programming, and increases overall knowledge and preparedness;
Whereas the effects of long-term exposure to wildfire smoke will harm more people, as particle pollution triggers asthma attacks, heart attacks, and strokes, and can kill;
Whereas firefighters are on the frontlines and are at an increased risk of developing cancer and respiratory diseases because they are exposed to smoke and hazardous chemicals in the line of duty;
Whereas, in 2023, there were 56,580 wildfires that burned 2,693,910 acres, and in California there were 7,127 wildfires and over 324,917 acres burned;
Whereas nearly 85 percent of wildland fires in the United States are caused by humans;
Whereas, from January 1, 2024, there have been over 11,523 wildfires and over 1,802,756 acres burned;
Whereas the wildfire season in California increases every year in length and frequency of fires;
Whereas the United States experienced a large number of wildfires from West Coast to East Coast; and
Whereas preventative measures exist to help individuals and communities increase their fire resilience through—
(1)
evacuation planning and assistance for people and their animals;
(2)
vegetation and forest management; and
(3)
limited use of combustibles during high heat or drier seasons, including fireworks, exhaust, and open flames: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals of Wildfire Preparedness Week;
(2)
supports resources and educational initiatives that communicate how affected communities can take preventative measures such as instituting early warning systems and reducing unplanned human ignitions, as well as how to safely and efficiently evacuating people and their animals; and
(3)
encourages increased awareness of and preparedness for the threat of wildfires and subsequent suppression efforts.
