118 HRES 1473 IH: To condemn racism and bigotry towards Haitian people, to celebrate the vast contributions of people of Haitian descent to the United States, to condemn the spread of misinformation, and to call on Americans to affirm our shared humanity.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1473
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 19, 2024
Mr. Frost
(for himself,
Ms. Clarke of New York
,
Ms. Pressley
, and
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
To condemn racism and bigotry towards Haitian people, to celebrate the vast contributions of people of Haitian descent to the United States, to condemn the spread of misinformation, and to call on Americans to affirm our shared humanity.
Whereas food-based racialized epithets have been a prominent form of racism in America for hundreds of years;
Whereas the debunked claims promoted by Senator James David Vance and former President Donald Trump about Haitians or people of Haitian descent have been declared baseless by law enforcement and government officials;
Whereas spreading false stories about Haitians or people of Haitian descent divides communities by stoking fear amongst communities;
Whereas recent racist tropes and misinformation, including fabricated stories about Haitians or people of Haitian descent, have contributed to a hostile environment for Haitians or people of Haitian descent;
Whereas the spread of fictitious stories dehumanizes people and puts communities in immediate physical danger;
Whereas over 30 bomb threats and the threat of a mass shooting have been made in Springfield, Ohio, since the spread of baseless and racist stories about Haitians or people of Haitian descent;
Whereas the United States and Haiti share a history of fighting for independence and have been allies for over two centuries;
Whereas Haitian Americans and their descendants have made significant contributions to the advancement of American society, including but not limited to: Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, founder of Chicago; Pierre Toussiant, philanthropist and candidate for sainthood; W.E.B. Dubois, civil rights activist and scholar; and countless others; and
Whereas the United States has a long history of benefitting from the prevalence of Haitian doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers providing essential services and care; Haitian educators and scholars who have enriched American academia and inspired countless students; Haitian artists, musicians, and writers who have greatly influenced American culture, bringing unique perspectives and creativity; and Haitian community, advocating for social justice and the rights of everyone; Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes and celebrates the significant contributions of Haitian Americans and people of Haitian descent to the United States;
(2)
strongly condemns and denounces all forms of discrimination, including racism, xenophobia, and bigotry, towards Haitian people;
(3)
calls on all Americans to reject racist tropes and speak out against misinformation;
(4)
recognizes and celebrates the significant contributions of Haitian Americans and people of Haitian descent to the United States; and
(5)
strongly urges elected officials and community leaders to promote inclusivity, engage in responsible, honest, communication, and affirm humanity for all ethnic and national groups.
