118 HRES 929 IH: Condemning all forms of hate.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-12-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 929
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 12, 2023
Mrs. Watson Coleman
(for herself,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Ms. Brown
,
Ms. Tlaib
,
Ms. McCollum
,
Mr. Green of Texas
, and
Ms. McClellan
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning all forms of hate.
Whereas hate in any form must be identified and condemned;
Whereas discriminatory rhetoric and the scapegoating of vulnerable communities are the main drivers of race-related attacks;
Whereas hate-based violence also extends to hate crimes, harmful immigration policies, and hate speech;
Whereas the total number of single-bias incidents in 2022 was 11,288 and 10,530 in 2021;
Whereas over 65 percent of hate crimes committed in 2022 were committed against a person and 31 percent were committed against property;
Whereas in 2022 race/ethnicity-related hate crimes made up the majority (56 percent) of all reported bias crimes;
Whereas African Americans make up the majority of victims in race-related hate crimes in 2022;
Whereas racial biases against the Sikh community has increased by 108 percent between 2020 to 2021;
Whereas Asian American and Pacific Islander hate crimes increased by 266 percent in just one year between 2020 and 2021;
Whereas antisemitic hate incidents have increased across educational institutions and places of worship, causing an increase in threats to public safe havens;
Whereas the xenophobia in the framework of immigration policy has caused the displacement of thousands of migrant children;
Whereas LGBTQI+ hate crimes rose by 16 percent between 2021 and 2022;
Whereas 88 percent of victims of transgender and gender nonconforming attacks were victims of color, 54 percent being Black transgender women;
Whereas the right to religious freedom is a right for all Americans and non-Americans;
Whereas hate on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age, or disability has no place in the fabric of our democracy;
Whereas bigotry, racial biases, transphobia, islamophobia, and xenophobia must be met with State and Federal repercussions to prevent their deleterious effects on democracy and democratic institutions; and
Whereas in response to frequent acts of hate-based violence against vulnerable communities and members therein, Congress must prioritize acknowledging and responding equitably: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns all representations of discrimination including, racism, islamophobia, antisemitism, transphobia, heterosexism, homophobia, sexism, ageism, xenophobia, ableism, and ethnic or religious bigotry;
(2)
supports the implementation of comprehensive policies to prevent and respond to hate crimes, including education and training on prevention and response, State and Federal intervention, and acknowledgment of the challenges facing vulnerable groups;
(3)
reassures the needs of victims’ advocacy, including communication support, incident reporting, physical and mental health resources, legal representation, and response and recovery;
(4)
supports allocating funding for programs that are culturally and linguistically accessible to center vulnerable populations within these communities including but not limited to working-class people, undocumented and immigrant communities, women, nonbinary, and LGBTQ communities;
(5)
supports allocating resources to community-based organizations that center the experiences of vulnerable populations; and
(6)
reaffirms the Federal Government’s commitment to combat all forms of hate, bigotry, and violence to exercise the importance of an inclusive democracy.
