118 HRES 784 IH: Supporting the designation of October 15, 2023, as “National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day” and recognizing the people who have lost a pregnancy or an infant.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 784
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 13, 2023
Mr. Schneider
(for himself,
Mr. Hill
,
Ms. Crockett
,
Mr. Davis of Illinois
,
Ms. Sewell
,
Mr. Grijalva
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Jackson of Illinois
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Mr. Carey
, and
Mr. Soto
) submitted the following resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of October 15, 2023, as
National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day
and recognizing the people who have lost a pregnancy or an infant.
Whereas 2023 marks the 17th nationally recognized
Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day
;
Whereas each year, approximately 1,000,000 pregnancies in the United States end in miscarriage, stillbirth, or the death of a newborn;
Whereas pregnancy and infant loss can affect families long after the loss;
Whereas loss of an infant or a pregnancy can negatively affect a person’s mental health;
Whereas families would benefit from bereavement leave from work to take care of themselves and their families;
Whereas people who have experienced pregnancy loss or infant loss should not have their experiences minimized or stigmatized;
Whereas Congress should acknowledge the personal experiences of individuals who have lost a pregnancy or infant and empower those individuals to speak about their losses;
Whereas recognizing
Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day
is an opportunity to increase awareness, promote research and greater understanding, and provide community to individuals who have experienced pregnancy loss or infant loss; and
Whereas
Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day
allows the people of the United States to consider how we can best support families who experience, or work to prevent, pregnancy or infant loss: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day
;
(2)
understands the importance of honoring these losses and supporting affected people and their families; and
(3)
requests that the President issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe such day with appropriate programs and activities.
