118 HRES 264 IH: Expressing support for the goals of Workplace Eye Wellness Month by promoting the importance of protecting the eyes from increased screen time.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 264
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 29, 2023
Mr. Payne
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the goals of Workplace Eye Wellness Month by promoting the importance of protecting the eyes from increased screen time.
Whereas the rise of computer usage during the COVID–19 pandemic has increased cases of digital eye strain.
Whereas symptoms of digital eye strain, also referred to as computer vision syndrome, include tired, burning, or itching eyes, dry eyes, blurred vision and/or headache.
Whereas the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires that employers take appropriate measures to ensure that their employees are protected against potential workplace eye injuries.
Whereas, to help prevent workplace eye injuries, it is important for individuals to keep the following tips in mind:
(1)
When working at a computer, take breaks every 15 minutes to relax the eyes.
(2)
Sit about 30 inches away from the screen.
(3)
Review your work space for potential hazards before starting work.
(4)
Wear protective eyewear in areas that pose the risk of injury.
(5)
Always use appropriate protective eyewear that fits, such as goggles, safety glasses, welding helmets, full-face respirators, or face shields.
(6)
Stay up-to-date on first aid procedures for common workplace injuries and make sure that the first aid kit is well stocked.
(7)
Encourage coworkers and new hires to follow all safety procedures to prevent workplace eye injuries.
Whereas March is recognized as Workplace Eye Wellness Month.
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of Workplace Eye Wellness Month;
(2)
recognizes the importance of healthy vision; and
(3)
encourages employees to take precautions to avoid workplace eye injuries.
