118 HRES 625 IH: Recognizing the critical role of congressional staff and support staff working on Capitol Hill and in State or district offices.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-07-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 625
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 27, 2023
Mr. Connolly
(for himself,
Mr. Graves of Louisiana
,
Mr. Morelle
, and
Mr. Steil
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the critical role of congressional staff and support staff working on Capitol Hill and in State or district offices.
Whereas there are nearly 15,000 congressional staff and thousands of support staff working on Capitol Hill and in State or district offices;
Whereas congressional staff and support staff serve a critical role within the United States system of government by supporting the legislative branch;
Whereas support staff serve as an essential resource and provide administrative, technical, and operational services to the congressional community of House of Representatives Members, officers, and staff;
Whereas congressional staff work with constituents from their home States and districts to ensure that their constituents’ voices are heard and that their needs are represented;
Whereas congressional staff help constituents navigate Federal agencies to resolve issues, such as the issuance and renewal of passports, adjudication of immigration cases, and applications for Social Security and veterans’ benefits;
Whereas congressional staff help strengthen the bond between constituents and Members of Congress;
Whereas congressional staff provide constituent services and help Congress solve the Nation’s most intractable challenges;
Whereas congressional staff give back to the national capital region, as well as communities in their States and districts;
Whereas congressional staff are faithful public servants who serve the public with the utmost respect and dignity;
Whereas congressional staff deserve to work in a safe and healthy environment, as they do the people’s work; and
Whereas congressional staff and support staff should be accepted, supported, and treated with respect and dignity: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the critical role of congressional staff and support staff working on Capitol Hill and in State or district offices; and
(2)
thanks congressional staff and support staff for the commitment and essential services that they provide.
