118 HRES 225 IH: Expressing support for the designation of the third week of March 2023 as “National CACFP Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 225
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 14, 2023
Ms. Bonamici
(for herself,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Ms. Tokuda
,
Mr. Case
, and
Ms. Titus
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of the third week of March 2023 as
National CACFP Week
.
Whereas the Department of Agriculture reaffirms the vital role positive nutritional habits play in the healthy growth of children in the United States;
Whereas the Department of Agriculture also recognizes the importance of nutritional education for the most vulnerable and youngest children, as well as adults, through care centers and homes throughout the United States;
Whereas the child and adult care food program (commonly referred to as
CACFP
) provides daily meals and snacks to more than 4,200,000 children and 138,000 adults in child care centers, adult day care homes, and after-school programs daily, covering the costs of nearly 2,100,000,000 nutritious meals and snacks each year;
Whereas research has found that participation in CACFP reduces the prevalence of children who are overweight or underweight, which highlights the continual importance of updated and accurate nutritional information;
Whereas CACFP increases the quality of child care, especially for children in low-income communities;
Whereas 16,000 child care centers currently face permanent closure because of increased costs and burdens from the COVID–19 pandemic;
Whereas CACFP increases the effectiveness and viability of child care centers and adult day care homes for many providers, especially in rural areas;
Whereas CACFP improves the cognitive, social, emotional, and physical health and development of children, leading to more favorable outcomes such as—
(1)
a decreased likelihood of being hospitalized;
(2)
an increased likelihood of healthy weight gain; and
(3)
an increased likelihood of a more varied diet, including increased consumption of vegetables;
Whereas the innovative approach to CACFP implementation, which pairs child care homes and centers, adult day care centers, and after-school sites with either a nonprofit sponsoring organization or a State agency, highlights a unique public-private partnership that supports working families and small businesses; and
Whereas the third week of March is annually recognized as
National CACFP Week
to raise awareness of the child and adult care food program of the Department of Agriculture: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the role of the child and adult care food program (commonly referred to as
CACFP
) in improving the health of the country’s most vulnerable children and adults in child care centers, adult day care homes, and after-school care by providing nutritious meals and snacks;
(2)
urges support for continuing to strengthen CACFP by offering reimbursement for an additional meal or snack for children in care for a full day, offering annual eligibility to for-profit child care centers, and reducing administrative burdens to participation;
(3)
acknowledges that CACFP can, and should, be an important tool in reducing the costs faced by the care economy, including for family, friend, and neighbor care and licensed center-based care; and
(4)
supports the designation of
National CACFP Week
.
