Executive Order  —  to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code; and in view of   Resolution ( )   of  ,

I,  , President of  , determine that it is in the interests of   to (1) assist the international independent investigation   ( ") established pursuant to UNSCR  , (2) assist   in identifying and holding accountable in accordance with applicable law those persons who were involved in planning, sponsoring, organizing, or perpetrating the terrorist act in  ,  , on  , that resulted in the assassination of former Prime Minister of    , and the deaths of 22 others, and other bombings or assassination attempts in   since  , that are related to  's assassination or that implicate   or its officers or agents, and (3) take note of the  's conclusions in its report of  , that there is converging evidence pointing to both   and   involvement in terrorist acts, that interviewees tried to mislead the  's investigation by giving false or inaccurate statements, and that a senior official of   submitted false information to the  . In light of these determinations, and to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 of  , concerning certain actions of  , I hereby order:

Section 1. (a) Except to the extent that sections 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3) and (4)) may apply, or to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: persons determined by the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  ,

(i) to be, or to have been, involved in the planning, sponsoring, organizing, or perpetrating of:

(A) the terrorist act in  ,  , that resulted in the assassination of former   Prime Minister   and the deaths of 22 others; or

(B) any other bombing, assassination, or assassination attempt in   since  , that is related to  's assassination or that implicates   or its officers or agents;

(ii) to have obstructed or otherwise impeded the work of the   established pursuant to UNSCR  ;

(iii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, any such terrorist act, bombing, or assassination attempt, or any person designated pursuant to this order; or

(iv) to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person designated pursuant to this order.

(b) I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the type of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any person designated pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include but are not limited to (i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person designated pursuant to this order, and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4. For those persons designated pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that, because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a determination made pursuant to section 1(a) of this order.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken.

 . 6. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
