Executive Order  —Blocking Property of Persons in Connection With the Conflict in  's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   is posed by the persistence of violence in  's   region, particularly against civilians and including sexual violence against women and girls, and by the deterioration of the security situation and its negative impact on humanitarian assistance efforts, as noted by   in Resolution 1591 of  , and, to deal with that threat, hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  , with respect to the policies and actions of  , and hereby order:

Section 1. (a) Except to the extent that sections 203(b) (1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)) may apply, or to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the following persons, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to have constituted a threat to the peace process in  ;

(B) to have constituted a threat to stability in   and the region;

(C) to be responsible for conduct related to the conflict in   that violates international law;

(D) to be responsible for heinous conduct with respect to human life or limb related to the conflict in  ;

(E) to have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred arms or any related materiel, or any assistance, advice, or training related to military activities to: (1)  ; (2)  ; (3) the Justice and  ; (4) the  ; or (5) any person (other than a person listed in subparagraph ( ) through (E)(4) above) operating in the states of  ,  , or   that is a belligerent, a nongovernmental entity, or an individual;

(F) to be responsible for offensive military overflights in and over the   region;

(G) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, materiel, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in paragraph (a)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section or any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order; or

(H) to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order.

(b) I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the type of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The prohibitions of paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, (i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order, and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "arms or any related materiel" means arms or related materiel of all types, military aircraft, and equipment, but excludes: (i) supplies and technical assistance, including training, intended solely for use in authorized monitoring, verification, or peace support operations, including such operations led by regional organizations; (ii) supplies of non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian use, human rights monitoring use, or protective use, and related technical assistance, including training; (iii) supplies of protective clothing, including flak jackets and military helmets, for use by   personnel, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only; (iv) assistance and supplies provided in support of implementation of   signed  , by   and  ; and (v) other movements of military equipment and supplies into the   region by   or that are permitted by a rule or decision of the Secretary of  , after consultation with the Secretary of the  .

 . 4. For those persons listed in or designated pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that, for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded by this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken. The Secretary of the   shall ensure compliance with those provisions of section 401 of the   (50 U.S.C.  ) applicable to   in relation to this order.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency expanded by this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to determine, subsequent to the issuance of this order, that circumstances no longer warrant the inclusion of a person in the   to this order and that the property and interests in property of that person are therefore no longer blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 9. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and the   order and its attached annex were published in   on  .
