Executive Order  —Improving Assistance for Disaster Victims
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including the   Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.) (the "Stafford Act"), and to take further actions to improve the delivery of Federal disaster assistance, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to ensure that individuals who are victims of a terrorist attack, natural disaster, or other incident that is the subject of an emergency or major disaster declaration under the Stafford Act, and who are thereby eligible for financial or other assistance delivered by any department or agency of the executive branch (Federal disaster assistance) have prompt and efficient access to Federal disaster assistance, as well as information regarding assistance available from   and local government and private sector sources.

 . 2. Task Force on Disaster Assistance Coordination. (a) Plan to Improve Delivery of Federal Disaster Assistance. To further the policy in section 1 of this order, there is established the interagency "Task Force on Disaster Assistance Coordination" (Task Force). The Task Force shall develop a plan to streamline and otherwise improve the delivery of Federal disaster assistance (Plan). The Plan shall:

(i) include an inventory of   disaster assistance programs and assess the effectiveness of their respective delivery mechanisms;

(ii) recommend specific actions to improve the delivery of Federal disaster assistance, which shall include actions to provide a centralized application process for   disaster assistance; provide a centralized and continuously updated clearinghouse from which disaster victims may obtain information regarding   disaster assistance and   and local government and private sector sources of disaster assistance; reduce unnecessarily duplicative application forms and processes for   disaster assistance; and strengthen controls designed to prevent improper payments and other forms of fraud, waste, and abuse; and

(iii) include an implementation schedule for the  's recommendations that provides for the phased implementation of the   by  , including   milestones and metrics to be used to measure and evaluate implementation.

(b) Membership of  . (i) The Task Force shall consist exclusively of the following members, or their designees who shall be at the Assistant Secretary level (or its equivalent) or higher:

(A) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(B) the Secretary of the  ;

(C) the Secretary of  ;

(D) the Attorney General;

(E) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(F) the Secretary of  ;

(G) the Secretary of  ;

(H) the Secretary of  ;

(I) the Secretary of  ;

(J) the Secretary of  ;

(K) the Secretary of  ;

(L) the Director of  ;

(M) the Commissioner of  ;

(N) the Administrator of  ;

(O) the Director of  ; and

(P) such other officers of   as the Secretary of   may designate from time to time.

(ii) The Secretary of  , or the Secretary's designee, shall convene and preside at meetings of  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to address specific subject matters, establish and direct subgroups of  . A member of   may designate, to perform Task Force subgroup functions of the member, any person who is part of such member's department or agency and who is either an officer of   appointed by the President or a member of  .

(c) Plan Approval and Implementation. Not later than March 1, 2007, the Secretary of   shall submit the   to the President for approval through the Assistant to the President for   and   and the Director of  . Upon approval of the   by the President, the Secretary of  , assisted by  , shall coordinate the implementation of the Plan. Until the completion of such implementation, the Secretary of   shall submit a   progress report to the Assistant to the President for   and   and the Director of  .

 . 3. Assistance and Support. To the extent permitted by law, the heads of all executive departments and agencies shall provide such assistance and information as the Secretary of   may request in carrying out the Secretary's responsibilities under this order. Consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide necessary funding and administrative support for  .

 . 4. Administration. This order shall: (a) be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable laws, including Federal laws protecting the information privacy rights and other legal rights of  , and subject to the availability of appropriations;

(b) be implemented in a manner consistent with the statutory authority of the principal officers of executive departments and agencies as heads of their respective departments or agencies; and

(c) not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, regulatory, and legislative responsibilities.

 . 5.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any rights or benefits, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
