Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 204 of  , and Priorities Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  ), section 101(c) of   of 2005 (Public Law 109-155), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  . Continued progress in aeronautics, the science of flight, is essential to  's economic success and the protection of  's security interests at home and around the globe. Accordingly, it shall be the policy of   to facilitate progress in aeronautics research and development (R&D) through appropriate funding and activities of  , in cooperation with  , territorial, tribal, local, and foreign governments, international organizations, academic and research institutions, private organizations, and other entities, as appropriate.   shall only undertake roles in supporting aeronautics R&D that are not more appropriately performed by the private sector.   prepared by   should, to the extent consistent with this order and its implementation, guide the aeronautics R&D programs of   through  .

 . 2. Functions of the Director of  . To implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Director of   (the "Director") shall:

(a) review the funding and activities of   relating to aeronautics R&D;

(b) recommend to the President, the Director of  , and the heads of executive departments and agencies, as appropriate, such actions with respect to funding and activities of   relating to aeronautics R&D as may be necessary to

(i) advance   technological leadership in aeronautics;

(ii) support innovative research leading to significant advances in aeronautical concepts, technologies, and capabilities;

(iii) pursue and develop advanced aeronautics concepts and technologies, including those for advanced aircraft systems and air transportation management systems, to benefit  's security and effective and efficient national airspace management;

(iv) maintain and advance   aeronautics research, development, test and evaluation infrastructure to provide effective experimental and computational capabilities in support of aeronautics R&D;

(v) facilitate the educational development of the future aeronautics workforce as needed to further   interests;

(vi) enhance coordination and communication among executive departments and agencies to maximize the effectiveness of   resources; and

(vii) ensure appropriate   coordination with  , territorial, tribal, local, and foreign governments, international organizations, academic and research institutions, private organizations, and other entities.

 . 3. Implementation of  . To implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Director shall:

(a) develop and, not   after the date of this order, submit for approval by the President a plan for national aeronautics R&D and for related infrastructure, (the "plan"), and thereafter submit, not less often than biennially, to the President for approval any changes to the plan;

(b) monitor and report to the President as appropriate on the implementation of the approved plan;

(c) ensure that executive departments and agencies conducting aeronautics R&D:

(i) obtain and exchange information and advice, as appropriate, from organizations and individuals outside   in support of   planning and performance of aeronautics R&D;

(ii) develop and implement, as appropriate, measures for improving dissemination of R&D results and facilitating technology transition from R&D to applications; and

(iii) identify and promote innovative policies and approaches that complement and enhance   aeronautics R&D investment; and

(d) report to the President on the results of the efforts of executive departments and agencies to implement paragraphs (c)(i) through (iii) of this section.

 . 4.  . (a) In implementing this order, the Director shall:

(i) obtain as appropriate the assistance of   in the performance of the Director's functions under this order, consistent with Executive Order  , as amended;

(ii) coordinate as appropriate with the Director of  ; and

(iii) obtain information and advice from all sources as appropriate, including individuals associated with academic and research institutions and private organizations.

(b) The functions of the President under subsection (c) of section 101 of   of  , except the function of designation, are assigned to the Director of  . In performing these assigned functions, the Director shall, as appropriate, consult the Administrator of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and other heads of executive departments and agencies as appropriate. The Director also shall ensure that all actions taken in the performance of such functions are consistent with the authority set forth in subsections (a) through (d) of section 6 of Executive Order  .

(c) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with:

(i) applicable law, including section 102A(i) of the National Security Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. 403-1(i)), and subject to the availability of appropriations; and

(ii) statutory authority of the principal officers of executive departments and agencies as the heads of their respective departments and agencies.

(d) This order shall not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, and legislative proposals.

(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any rights or benefits, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
