Executive Order  —Commission on   of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established, within   of the President for administrative purposes, a   on the Intelligence Capabilities of  ).

 . 2. Mission. (a) The   is established for the purpose of advising the President in the discharge of his constitutional authority under Article II of the Constitution to conduct foreign relations, protect national security, and command  , in order to ensure the most effective counterproliferation capabilities of   and response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the ongoing threat of terrorist activity. The   shall assess whether   is sufficiently authorized, organized, equipped, trained, and resourced to identify and warn in a timely manner of, and to support   efforts to respond to, the development and transfer of knowledge, expertise, technologies, materials, and resources associated with the proliferation of  , related means of delivery, and other related threats of   and their employment by foreign powers (including terrorists, terrorist organizations, and private networks, or other entities or individuals). In doing so, the   shall examine the capabilities and challenges of   to collect, process, analyze, produce, and disseminate information concerning the capabilities, intentions, and activities of such foreign powers relating to the design, development, manufacture, acquisition, possession, proliferation, transfer, testing, potential or threatened use, or use of  , related means of delivery, and other related threats of  .

(b) With respect to that portion of its examination under paragraph 2(a) of this order that relates to  , the   shall specifically examine   intelligence prior to the initiation of Operation Iraqi Freedom and compare it with the findings of   and other relevant agencies or organizations concerning the capabilities, intentions, and activities of   relating to the design, development, manufacture, acquisition, possession, proliferation, transfer, testing, potential or threatened use, or use of   and related means of delivery.

(c)

With respect to its examination under paragraph 2(a) of this order, the   shall:

(i)

specifically evaluate the challenges of obtaining information regarding the design, development, manufacture, acquisition, possession, proliferation, transfer, testing, potential or threatened use, or use of  , related means of delivery, and other related threats of   in closed societies; and

(ii)

compare   intelligence concerning Weapons of Mass Destruction programs and other related threats of   in   prior to  's recent decision to open its programs to international scrutiny and in   prior to removal of the   government with the current assessments of organizations examining those programs.

(d)

The   shall submit to the President by  , a report of the findings of the   resulting from its examination and its specific recommendations for ensuring that     is sufficiently authorized, organized, equipped, trained, and resourced to identify and warn in a timely manner of, and to support   efforts to respond to, the development and transfer of knowledge, expertise, technologies, materials, and resources associated with the proliferation of  , related means of delivery, and other related threats of   and their employment by foreign powers (including terrorists, terrorist organizations, and private networks, or other entities or individuals).   and other components of the   shall utilize the   and its resulting report. Within   of receiving the  's report, the President will consult with the   concerning the  's report and recommendations, and will propose any appropriate legislative recommendations arising out of the findings of the  .

 . 3. Membership. The   shall consist of up to nine members appointed by the President, two of whom the President shall designate as  . Members shall be citizens of  . It shall take two-thirds of the members of the   to constitute a quorum.

 . 4. Meetings of the Commission and Direction of Its Work.   the   shall convene and preside at the meetings of the  , determine after consultation with other members of the   its agenda, direct its work, and assign responsibilities within the  .

 . 5. Access to Information. (a) To carry out this order, the   shall have full and complete access to information relevant to its mission as described in section 2 of this order and in the possession, custody, or control of any executive department or agency to the maximum extent permitted by law and consistent with Executive Order   of  , as amended. Heads of departments and agencies shall promptly furnish such information to the   upon request. The Attorney General and the Director of   shall ensure the expeditious processing of all appropriate security clearances necessary for the members of the   to fulfill their functions.

(b) Promptly upon commencing its work, the   shall adopt, after consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Director of  , rules and procedures of the   for physical, communications, computer, document, personnel, and other security in relation to the work of the  . The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Director of   shall promptly and jointly report to the President their judgment whether the security rules and procedures adopted by the   are clearly consistent with the national security and protect against unauthorized disclosure of information required by law or executive order to be protected against such disclosure. The President may at any time modify the security rules or procedures of the   to provide the necessary protection.

 . 6.  . (a) In implementing this order, the   shall solely advise and assist the President.

(b)

In performing its functions under this order, the   shall, subject to the authority of the President, be independent from any executive department or agency, or of any officer, employee, or agent thereof.

(c)

Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the authorities of any department, agency, entity, officer, or employee of   under applicable law.

(d)

Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e)

The Director of   shall provide or arrange for the provision of administrative support and, with the assistance of the Director of  , ensure funding for the   consistent with applicable law. The Director of   shall ensure that such support and funding meets the  's reasonable needs and that the manner of provision of support and funding is consistent with the authority of the   within the executive branch in the performance of its functions.

(f)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . Members who are not officers or employees in the executive branch, while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.   through  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(g)

The   shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director.   shall hire and employ, or obtain by assignment or detail from departments and agencies, the staff of the  , including the Executive Director.

(h)

The term "Intelligence Community" is given the same meaning as contained in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).

(i) The term "Weapons of Mass Destruction" is given the same meaning as contained in section 1403(1) of     (50 U.S.C. 2302(1)).

 . 7.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch, and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, against  , its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 8. Termination. The   shall terminate within   after submitting its report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:50 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
