Executive Order  —Agency Responsibilities With Respect to    
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to help   coordinate a national effort to expand opportunities for faith-based and other community organizations and to strengthen their capacity to better meet social needs in  's communities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Executive Department Centers for Faith-Based and  .

(a) The Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall each establish within their respective departments a Center for Faith-Based and  ).

(b) Each executive department   shall be supervised by a Director, appointed by the department head in consultation with     (White House OFBCI).

(c) Each department shall provide its   with appropriate staff, administrative support, and other resources to meet its responsibilities under this order.

(d) Each department's   shall begin operations   from the date of this order.

 . 2. Purpose of   for Faith-Based and  .

The purpose of the executive department   will be to coordinate department efforts to eliminate regulatory, contracting, and other programmatic obstacles to the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the provision of social services.

 . 3. Responsibilities of Executive Department Centers for Faith-Based and

Community Initiatives.

Each Center shall, to the extent permitted by law: (a) conduct, in coordination with    , a department-wide audit to identify all existing barriers to the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the delivery of social services by the department, including but not limited to regulations, rules, orders, procurement, and other internal policies and practices, and outreach activities that either facially discriminate against or otherwise discourage or disadvantage the participation of faithbased and other community organizations in Federal programs;

(b) coordinate a comprehensive departmental effort to incorporate faith-based and other community organizations in department programs and initiatives to the greatest extent possible;

(c) propose initiatives to remove barriers identified pursuant to section 3(a) of this order, including but not limited to reform of regulations, procurement, and other internal policies and practices, and outreach activities;

(d) propose the development of innovative pilot and demonstration programs to increase the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in Federal as well as   and local initiatives; and

(e) develop and coordinate department outreach efforts to disseminate information more effectively to faith-based and other community organizations with respect to programming changes, contracting opportunities, and other department initiatives, including but not limited to Web and Internet resources.

 . 4.   and  .

In addition to those responsibilities described in section 3 of this order,   and   shall, to the extent permitted by law: (a) conduct a comprehensive review of policies and practices affecting existing funding streams governed by so-called "Charitable Choice" legislation to assess the department's compliance with the requirements of  ; and (b) promote and ensure compliance with existing   legislation by the department, as well as its partners in   and local government, and their contractors.

 . 5. Reporting Requirements.

(a) Report. Not   after the date of this order and annually thereafter, each of the five executive department   described in section 1 of this order shall prepare and submit a report to   OFBCI.

(b) Contents. The report shall include a description of the department's efforts in carrying out its responsibilities under this order, including but not limited to:

(1) a comprehensive analysis of the barriers to the full participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the delivery of social services identified pursuant to section 3(a) of this order and the proposed strategies to eliminate those barriers; and

(2) a summary of the technical assistance and other information that will be available to faith-based and other community organizations regarding the program activities of the department and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, and procurement.

(c) Performance Indicators. The first report, filed   after the date of this order, shall include   performance indicators and measurable objectives for department action. Each report filed thereafter shall measure the department's performance against the objectives set forth in the initial report.

 . 6. Responsibilities of  .

All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall: (a) designate an agency employee to serve as the liaison and point of contact with   OFBCI; and

(b) cooperate with   OFBCI and provide such information, support, and assistance to   OFBCI as it may request, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 7. Administration and  .

(a) The agencies' actions directed by this Executive Order shall be carried out subject to the availability of appropriations and to the extent permitted by law.

(b) This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,  .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  . It is included here as an example of the Executive orders which are listed in   D at the end of this volume and compiled   in title 3 of the

Code of Federal Regulations.
