Executive Order  —Establishment of   and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to help   coordinate a national effort to expand opportunities for faith-based and other community organizations and to strengthen their capacity to better meet social needs in  's communities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. Faith-based and other community organizations are indispensable in meeting the needs of poor   and distressed neighborhoods. Government cannot be replaced by such organizations, but it can and should welcome them as partners. The paramount goal is compassionate results, and private and charitable community groups, including religious ones, should have the fullest opportunity permitted by law to compete on a level playing field, so long as they achieve valid public purposes, such as curbing crime, conquering addiction, strengthening families and neighborhoods, and overcoming poverty. This delivery of social services must be results oriented and should value the bedrock principles of pluralism, nondiscrimination, evenhandedness, and neutrality.

 . 2. Establishment. There is established a   and   (White House OFBCI) within   of the President that will have lead responsibility in the executive branch to establish policies, priorities, and objectives for   comprehensive effort to enlist, equip, enable, empower, and expand the work of faith-based and other community organizations to the extent permitted by law.

 . 3. Functions. The principal functions of   OFBCI are, to the extent permitted by law: (a) to develop, lead, and coordinate the  's policy agenda affecting faith-based and other community programs and initiatives, expand the role of such efforts in communities, and increase their capacity through executive action, legislation,   and private funding, and regulatory relief;

(b)

to ensure that   policy decisions and programs are consistent with the President's stated goals with respect to faith-based and other community initiatives;

(c)

to help integrate the President's policy agenda affecting faith-based and other community organizations across  ;

(d)

to coordinate public education activities designed to mobilize public support for faith-based and community nonprofit initiatives through volunteerism, special projects, demonstration pilots, and public-private partnerships;

(e)

to encourage private charitable giving to support faith-based and community initiatives;

(f)

to bring concerns, ideas, and policy options to the President for assisting, strengthening, and replicating successful faith-based and other community programs;

(g)

to provide policy and legal education to  , local, and community policymakers and public officials seeking ways to empower faith-based and other community organizations and to improve the opportunities, capacity, and expertise of such groups;

(h)

to develop and implement strategic initiatives under the President's agenda to strengthen the institutions of civil society and  's families and communities;

(i)

to showcase and herald innovative grassroots nonprofit organizations and civic initiatives;

(j)

to eliminate unnecessary legislative, regulatory, and other bureaucratic barriers that impede effective faith-based and other community efforts to solve social problems;

(k)

to monitor implementation of the President's agenda affecting faith-based and other community organizations; and

(l)

to ensure that the efforts of faith-based and other community organizations meet high standards of excellence and accountability.

 . 4. Administration. (a)   OFBCI may function through established or ad hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups.

(b)

  OFBCI shall have a staff to be headed by the Assistant to the President for    .   OFBCI shall have such staff and other assistance, to the extent permitted by law, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.   OFBCI operations shall begin   from the date of this order.

(c)

  OFBCI shall coordinate with the liaison and point of contact designated by each executive department and agency with respect to this initiative.

(d)

All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall cooperate with   OFBCI and provide such information, support, and assistance to   OFBCI as it may request, to the extent permitted by law.

(e)

The agencies' actions directed by this Executive Order shall be carried out subject to the availability of appropriations and to the extent permitted by law.

 . 5.  . This order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
