Executive Order  —  and Civic Participation
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to encourage the recognition of volunteer service and civic participation by all  , and especially  's youth, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The President's   and  . (a) There is hereby established within   ( ) the President's   and  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of up to 25 members, including representatives of  's youth, appointed by the President. Each member shall serve for a term of   and may continue to serve after the expiration of their term until a successor is appointed. The President shall designate one member to serve as   and one member to serve as Vice Chair. Subject to the direction of the Chief Executive Officer of the  , the  , and in the  's absence the Vice Chair, shall convene and preside at the meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

 . 2. Mission and Functions of the  .

(a)

The mission of the   shall be to:

(i)

encourage the recognition of outstanding volunteer service and civic participation by individuals, schools, and organizations and thereby encourage more such activity, especially on the part of  's youth; and

(ii)

facilitate awareness of the ways in which   throughout our history have helped to meet the vital needs of their communities and   through volunteer service and civic participation.

(b) In carrying out its mission, the   shall:

(i)

design and recommend programs to recognize individuals, schools, and organizations that excel in their efforts to support volunteer service and civic participation, especially with respect to students in primary schools, secondary schools, and institutions of higher learning;

(ii)

exchange information and ideas with interested individuals and organizations on ways to expand and improve

programs developed pursuant to subsection 2(b)(i) of this order;

(iii) advise the Chief Executive Officer of the   on broad dissemination, especially among schools and youth organizations, of information regarding recommended practices for the promotion of volunteer service and civic participation, and other relevant educational and promotional materials;

(iv)

monitor and advise the Chief Executive Officer of the   on the need for the enhancement of materials disseminated pursuant to subsection  ) of this order; and

(v)

make recommendations from time to time to the President, through the Director of  , on ways to promote and recognize outstanding volunteer service and civic participation by individuals, schools, and organizations and to promote awareness of the ways in which   throughout our history have helped to meet the vital needs of their communities and   through volunteer service and civic participation.

 . 3. Administration. (a) Each Federal agency, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, shall furnish such information and assistance to the   as the   may, with the approval of the Director of  , request.

(b)

The members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . Members of the   who are not officers or employees of   may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(c)

To the extent permitted by law, the Chief Executive Officer of the   shall furnish the   with necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services and shall pay the expenses of the  .

(d)

The Chief Executive Officer of the   shall appoint an   Director to head the staff of the  .

(e)

The  , with the approval of the Chief Executive Officer of the  , may establish subcommittees of the  , consisting exclusively of members of the  , as appropriate to aid the   in carrying out its mission under this order.

 . 4.  . (a) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the administration of any portion of this order, any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Chief Executive Officer of   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures issued by  .

(b)

Unless extended by the President, this order shall expire   from the date of this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
