Executive Order  —Presidents Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to obtain recommendations concerning implementation of the new vision for space exploration activities of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is hereby established   (the "Commission").

 . 2. Membership. (a) The   shall be composed of not more than nine members appointed by the President, taking into account as appropriate the experience of such individuals with respect to governmental, scientific, and technical matters relating to space.

(b)

The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as Chairman of the  .

 . 3. Mission. (a) The mission of the   shall be to provide recommendations to the President, in accordance with this order, on implementation of the vision outlined in the President's policy statement entitled "A Renewed Spirit of Discovery" and the President's Budget Submission for   (collectively, "Policy").

(b)

The   shall examine and make recommendations to the President regarding:

(i)

A science research agenda to be conducted on the   and other destinations as well as human and robotic science activities that advance our capacity to achieve the Policy;

(ii)

The exploration of technologies, demonstrations, and strategies, in

cluding the use of lunar and other in situ natural resources, that could be used for sustainable human and robotic exploration;

(iii) Criteria that could be used to select future destinations for human exploration;

(iv)

Long-term organization options for managing implementation of space exploration activities;

(v)

The most appropriate and effective roles for potential private sector and international participants in implementing the Policy;

(vi)

Methods for optimizing space exploration activities to encourage the interest of  's youth in studying and pursuing careers in mathematics, science, and engineering; and

(vii) Management of the implementation of the Policy within available resources.

 . 4. Administration. (a)   ( ) shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, administrative support and funding for the  . The   is established in   for administrative purposes only.

(b)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . Members appointed from among private citizens of  , however, while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707), to the extent funds are available.

(c)

Insofar as   (5 U.S.C. App. 2) (the "Act"), as amended, may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 of that Act, shall be performed by   (the "Administrator"), in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(d)

The   shall conduct occasional meetings as appropriate, including at various locations throughout  , to solicit views and opinions from the public, academia, and industry.

(e)

The   shall not have access to information classified pursuant to Executive Order   of  , as amended.

 . 5. Report. The   shall submit its final report to the President through the Administrator within   of the first meeting of the  .

 . 6.  . (a) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b) The   shall terminate within   after submitting its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:02 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  . This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.
