Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency With Respect to   and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), and section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c),

I,  , President of  , find that the situations that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order  , with respect to   and the expansion of the scope of that emergency in Executive Order   of  , with respect to  , have been significantly altered given that in    , the Sierra Leonean rebel group   ( ), and   in   declared the war in   to have ended; the parties to the   civil war entered into a Comprehensive Peace Agreement in  ; the   no longer exists as a military organization;  , who was the prime instigator of violence both in   and in  , has resigned from the   presidency and gone into exile;   has established a rough diamond certification regime that meets the minimum standards of  ; and   has implemented  ), prohibiting the importation into   of rough diamonds that are not controlled through  , currently including rough diamonds from  . Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared and expanded in scope in those two prior orders, revoke those orders, and further order:

Section 1. Pursuant to section 202 of the   (  1622), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and expanded in scope in Executive Order   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, or any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to such date, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to such date.

 . 2. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 3. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  . This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it will be published in   on  .
