Executive Order  —Amendment to Executive Order  , Ordering the Ready Reserve of   and   to the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in furtherance of Proclamation 7463 of  , Declaration of National Emergency by Reason of  , which declared a national emergency by reason of the terrorist attacks on  ,  ,  , and the  , and the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks on  , and in order to provide the Secretary of  , with respect to  , with the authority to manage personnel requirements in a manner consistent with the authorization provided to the Secretary of   in Executive Order   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Section 5 of Executive Order   is amended by adding at the end: "The Secretary of   is further designated and empowered, without the approval, ratification or any other action by the President, to exercise the authority vested in the President by sections 123 and 123a of title 10, United States Code, and sections 149 (detail members to assist foreign governments), 275(a) (suspension of provisions on

selection, promotion, or involuntary separation of officers), and 722 ( ) of title  , United States Code, as invoked by section 2 of Executive Order  ."

Sec. 2. Section 7 of Executive Order   is deleted and revised to read as follows: "Based upon my determination under 10 U.S.C. 2201(c) that it is necessary to increase (subject to limits imposed by law) the number of members of the armed forces on active duty for   beyond the number for which funds are provided in the appropriation Act for  , which, by virtue of 14

U.S.C. 652, applies to   with respect to  , the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may provide for the cost of such additional members under their respective jurisdictions as an excepted expense under section 11(a) of title 41, United States Code."

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:43 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
