Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , 5 U.S.C.   et seq., it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1. Order of Succession. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Secretary of   (Secretary), during any period in which the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary of  , the Under Secretary of  , and the officials designated by the Secretary pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 102(e) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary, until such time as the Secretary or one of the officials listed above is able to perform the duties of that office:

(a)         Administrator of  ;

(b)         Administrator of  ;

(c)         Administrator of  ;

(d)         Administrator of  ;

(e)         Administrator of  ;

(f)          Administrator of  ;

(g)         Administrator of the Pipeline and  ;

(h)         Administrator of  ;

(i)          Administrator of the Research and  ;

(j)          Administrator of  ;

(k)         Regional Administrator, Southern Region,  ;

(l)          Director,  ,  ,  ,  ; and

(m)         ,  ,  .

 . 2. Exceptions. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Secretary pursuant to this section.

(b) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under   of  .

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 . 3. This order supersedes the President's Memorandum of   (Designation of Officers of  ).

 . 4. This order is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  . This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.
