Executive  —  in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the continued actions and policies of   and other persons to undermine  's democratic processes or institutions, manifested most recently in the fundamentally undemocratic election held on  , to commit acts of violence and other human rights abuses against political opponents, and to engage in public corruption, including by misusing public authority, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of  , and to deal with that threat, hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order  , and hereby order:

Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided by statutes, or provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

Any person determined by the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  :

(i) to be a senior official of  ;

(ii) to be owned or controlled by, directly or indirectly,   or an official or officials of  ;

(iii) to have engaged in actions or policies to undermine  's democratic processes or institutions;

(iv) to be responsible for, or to have participated in, human rights abuses related to political repression in  ;

(v) to be engaged in, or to have engaged in, activities facilitating public corruption by senior officials of  ;

(vi) to be a spouse or dependent child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or this order;

(vii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of,  , any senior official thereof, or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or this order; or

(viii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or this order.

(b) I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as amended, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The prohibitions of this section include but are not limited to (i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order  , Executive Order  , or this order, and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

(d) The provisions of     and   remain in effect, and this order does not affect any action taken pursuant to those orders.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(  conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Zimbabwe" means  , its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.

 . 4. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that, because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that, for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as amended, and 5 expanded in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C.  ).

 . 7. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
