Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency Declared in Executive Order   With   to Iraq and    , Executive Order  , and Executive Order 13315
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(NEA), section 5 of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c)(UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , have determined that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency with respect to   in Executive Order   of August 2,  , has been significantly altered by the removal of the regime of   and other developments. I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , revoke that Executive Order and Executive Order   of  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order   of  , that are based on that national emergency. I hereby amend Executive Order  , so that the authorities therein remain in effect based on the national emergency I declared in Executive Order   of  , and expanded in Executive Order 13315 of  . At the same time, and in order to take additional steps to deal with the national emergency that I declared in Executive Order  , and expanded in Executive Order  , with respect to the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   posed

by obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of  , the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in that country, and the development of political, administrative and economic institutions in  , I hereby order:

Section 1. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending but not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to such date, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to such date. Pursuant to section 207(a) of   (50 U.S.C. 1706(a)), and subject to such regulations, orders, directives, or licenses as may be issued pursuant to this order, I hereby determine that the continuation of prohibitions with regard to transactions involving property blocked pursuant to Executive Orders   that continues to be blocked as of the effective date of this order is necessary on account of claims involving  .

 . 2. The   to Executive Order   is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the   to this order.

 . 3. I hereby amend Executive Order   by removing "the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of August 2, 1990" and replacing it with "the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and expanded in Executive Order 13315 of  ".

 . 4. Unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this order or otherwise consistent with   law, the trade in or transfer of ownership or possession of   cultural property or other items of archeological, historical, cultural, rare scientific, and religious importance that were illegally removed, or for which a reasonable suspicion exists that they were illegally removed, from  ,  , and other locations in   since  , is prohibited.

 . 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by or to persons determined to be subject to the sanctions imposed by Executive Order   or by this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and expanded by Executive Order  , or would endanger   that are engaged in hostilities, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided in section 1 of Executive Order   as amended by this order.

 . 6. For those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to Executive Order   or this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and expanded by Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to Executive Order   or this order.

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 8. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to determine subsequent to the issuance of the order, that circumstances no longer warrant the inclusion of a person in the   to this order and that such person is therefore no longer covered within the scope of the order.

 . 9. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 10. This order is effective at 12:01

a.m.   daylight time on  . This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:57 p.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in   on  .
