Executive Order  —Continuing Certain Restrictions With Respect to   and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the current existence and risk of the proliferation of weapons-usable fissile material on the Korean Peninsula constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I further find that, as we deal with that threat through multilateral diplomacy, it is necessary to continue certain restrictions with respect to   that would otherwise be lifted pursuant to a forthcoming proclamation that will terminate the exercise of authorities under the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq.) ( ) with respect to  .

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in statutes or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order, the following are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

all property and interests in property of   or a   national that, pursuant to the President's authorities under the  , the exercise of which has been continued in accordance with section 101(b) of Public Law 95-223 (91 Stat.  ; 50 U.S.C. App. 5(b) note), were blocked as of  , and remained blocked immediately prior to the date of this order.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in statutes or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order,   persons may not register a vessel in  , obtain authorization for a vessel to fly the   flag, or own, lease, operate, or insure any vessel flagged by  .

 . 3. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
