Executive Order  —Responsibilities of   and   and   to    
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to help   coordinate a national effort to expand opportunities for faith-based and other community organizations and to strengthen their capacity to better meet  's social and community needs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Centers for Faith-Based and   at   and   and  .

(a)

  and   and   shall each establish within their respective agencies a Center for Faith-Based and  ).

(b)

Each of these   shall be supervised by a Director, appointed by the agency head in consultation with     (White House OFBCI).

(c)

Each agency shall provide its   with appropriate staff, administrative support, and other resources to meet its responsibilities under this order.

(d)

Each Center shall begin operations   from the date of this order.

 . 2. Purpose of   for Faith-Based and  . The purpose of the agency   will be to coordinate agency efforts to eliminate regulatory, contracting, and other programmatic obstacles to the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the provision of social and community services.

 . 3. Responsibilities of    . Each Center shall, to the extent permitted by law:

(a)

conduct, in coordination with   OFBCI, an agency-wide audit to identify all existing barriers to the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the delivery of social and community services by the agency, including but not limited to regulations, rules, orders, procurement, and other internal policies and practices, and outreach activities that either facially discriminate against or otherwise discourage or disadvantage the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in Federal programs;

(b)

coordinate a comprehensive agency effort to incorporate faith-based and other community organizations in agency programs and initiatives to the greatest extent possible;

(c)

propose initiatives to remove barriers identified pursuant to section 3(a) of this order, including but not limited to reform of regulations, procurement, and other internal policies and practices, and outreach activities;

(d)

propose the development of innovative pilot and demonstration programs to increase the participation of faith-based and other community organizations in Federal as well as   and local initiatives; and

(e)

develop and coordinate agency outreach efforts to disseminate information more effectively to faith-based and other community organizations with respect to pro

gramming changes, contracting opportunities, and other agency initiatives, including but not limited to Web and Internet resources.

 . 4.  . (a) Report. Not   from the date of this order and annually thereafter, each of the three   described in section 1 of this order shall prepare and submit a report to the President through   OFBCI.

(b)

Contents. The report shall include a description of the agency's efforts in carrying out its responsibilities under this order, including but not limited to:

(i)

a comprehensive analysis of the barriers to the full participation of faith-based and other community organizations in the delivery of social and community services identified pursuant to section 3(a) of this order and the proposed strategies to eliminate those barriers; and

(ii)

a summary of the technical assistance and other information that will be available to faith-based and other community organizations regarding the program activities of the agency and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, and procurement.

(c)

Performance Indicators. The first report, filed pursuant to section 4(a) of this order, shall include   performance indicators and measurable objectives for agency action. Each report filed thereafter shall measure the agency's performance against the objectives set forth in the initial report.

 . 5. Responsibilities of   and   and  . The Secretaries and the Administrator shall:

(a)

designate an employee within their respective agencies to serve as the liaison and point of contact with   OFBCI; and

(b)

cooperate with   OFBCI and provide such information, support, and assistance to   OFBCI as it may request, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 6. Administration and  . (a) The agency actions directed by this executive order shall be carried out subject

to the availability of appropriations and to the extent permitted by law.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers, employees or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:10 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
