Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to place qualified individuals with disabilities in community settings whenever appropriate, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. This order is issued consistent with the following findings and principles:

(a)   is committed to community-based alternatives for individuals with disabilities and recognizes that such

services advance the best interests of  .

(b)

  seeks to ensure that  's community-based programs effectively foster independence and participation in the community for   with disabilities.

(c)

Unjustified isolation or segregation of qualified individuals with disabilities through institutionalization is a form of disabilitybased discrimination prohibited by Title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act of   ( ), 42 U.S.C.   et. seq. States must avoid disability-based discrimination unless doing so would fundamentally alter the nature of the service, program, or activity provided by the  .

(d)

In    , 527   581 ( ) (the "Olmstead decision"),   construed Title II of the   to require States to place qualified individuals with mental disabilities in community settings, rather than in institutions, whenever treatment professionals determine that such placement is appropriate, the affected persons do not oppose such placement, and the   can reasonably accommodate the placement, taking into account the resources available to the   and the needs of others with disabilities.

(e)

  must assist   and localities to implement swiftly the   decision, so as to help ensure that all   have the opportunity to live close to their families and friends, to live more independently, to engage in productive employment, and to participate in community life.

 . 2. Swift Implementation of the Olmstead Decision: Agency Responsibilities.

(a) The Attorney General,  ,  ,  , and  , and the Commissioner of   shall work cooperatively to ensure that the   decision is implemented in a timely manner. Specifically, the designated agencies should work with   to help them assess their compliance with the   decision and the   in providing services to qualified individuals with disabilities in community-based settings, as long as such services are appropriate to the needs of those individuals. These agencies should provide technical guidance and work cooperatively with   to achieve the goals of Title II of the  , particularly where   have chosen to develop comprehensive, effectively working plans to provide services to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated settings. These agencies should also ensure that existing Federal resources are used in the most effective manner to support the goals of the  . The Secretary of   shall take the lead in coordinating these efforts.

(b)

The Attorney General,  ,  ,  , and  , and the Commissioner of   shall evaluate the policies, programs, statutes, and regulations of their respective agencies to determine whether any should be revised or modified to improve the availability of communitybased services for qualified individuals with disabilities. The review shall focus on identifying affected populations, improving the flow of information about supports in the community, and removing barriers that impede opportunities for community placement. The review should ensure the involvement of consumers, advocacy organizations, providers, and relevant agency representatives. Each agency head should report to the President, through the Secretary of  , with the results of their evaluation within  .

(c)

The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall fully enforce Title II of the  , including investigating and resolving complaints filed on behalf of individuals who allege that they have been the victims of unjustified institutionalization. Whenever possible,   and   should work cooperatively with   to resolve these complaints, and should use alternative dispute resolution to bring these complaints to a quick and constructive resolution.

(d)

The agency actions directed by this order shall be done consistent with this  's budget.

 . 3.  . Nothing in this order shall affect any otherwise available judicial review of agency action. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in   on  .
