Executive Order 13218—21st Century Workforce Initiative
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to promote the study and the development of strategies to address the needs of   workforce, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of  . (a) The Secretary of   is hereby directed to establish within  . The Office shall provide a focal point for the identification and study of issues relating to the workforce of   and the development of strategies for effectively addressing such issues.

(b)

  shall gather and disseminate information relating to workforce issues by conducting summits, conferences, field hearings, meetings, and other appropriate forums designed to encourage the participation of organizations and individuals interested in such issues, including business and labor organizations, academicians, employers, employees, and public officials at the local,  , and Federal levels.

(c)

Among the issues to be addressed by   shall be the identification of the ways in which   may streamline and update the information and services made available to the workforce by the  ; eliminate duplicative or overlapping rules and regulations; and eliminate statutory and regulatory barriers to assisting the workforce in successfully adapting to the challenges of  .

 . 2. Establishment of  .

(a) Establishment and  .

(i)

There is hereby established the "President's Council on   Workforce" (Council).

(ii)

The   shall be composed of not more than 13 members who shall

be appointed by the President. The membership shall include individuals who represent the views of business and labor organizations,  , and local governments, academicians and educators, and such other associations and entities as the President determines are appropriate. In addition, the Secretary of   and the Director of   shall serve as ex officio members representing the views of  . The Secretary of   shall be the Chairperson of the  .

(b) Functions of the  . The   shall provide information and advice to the President through the Secretary of  ,   within  , and other appropriate   officials relating to issues affecting   workforce. These activities shall include:

(i)

assessing the effects of rapid technological changes, demographic trends, globalization, changes in work processes, and the need for new and enhanced skills for workers, employers, and other related sectors of society;

(ii)

examining current and alternative approaches to assisting workers and employers in adjusting to and benefitting from such changes, including opportunities for workplace education, retraining, access to assistive technologies and workplace supports, and skills upgrading;

(iii) identifying impediments to the adjustment to such changes by workers and employers and recommending approaches and policies that could remove those impediments;

(iv)

assisting   in reviewing programs carried out by   and identifying changes to such programs that would stream line and update their effectiveness in meeting the needs of the workforce; and

(v)

analyzing such additional issues relating to the workforce and making such reports as the President or the Secretary of   may request.

(c) Administration of the  .

(i)

The   shall meet on the call of the  , at a time and place designated by the Chairperson. The   may form subcommittees or working groups within the   to address particular matters.

(ii)

The   may from time to time prescribe such procedures and policies relating to the activities of the   as are not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.

(iii) Each member of the   who is not an officer or employee of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(iv)

  shall make available appropriate funding and administrative support to assist the   in carrying out the functions under this section, including necessary office space, equipment, supplies, staff, and services. The Secretary of   shall perform the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App.), as amended, except that of reporting to the  , with respect to the   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(v)

The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out the functions described in this section.

(d) Termination of the  . The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President prior to such date.

 . 3. Effect on Prior Orders.

(a) Amendments to Executive Order  . In order to ensure the coordination and nonduplication of advice and information regarding   workforce issues, section 6 of Executive Order  , relating to the functions of  , is amended to read as follows:

" . 6. Functions of  . The   shall provide the President, through the Secretary of   (who shall ensure the coordination of the activities of the   with the activities undertaken pursuant to sections 1 and 2 of the Executive Order on   Workforce Initiative), an independent assessment of:

(1)

progress made by   in its use and integration of technology in adult training programs, particularly in addressing the problems of adult illiteracy;

(2)

how   programs, initiatives, and policies can encourage or accelerate training technology to provide more accessible, more timely, and more cost-effective training opportunities for all  ;

(3)

mechanisms for   to widely deploy and utilize technology-mediated instruction so all   may take advantage of opportunities provided by learning technology;

(4)

the appropriate   role in research and development for learning technologies and their applications in order to develop high-quality training and education opportunities for all  ; and

(5)

such other issues regarding emerging technologies in government training as specified by the Secretary of  ."

(b) Revocation of Executive Order  . Executive Order 13174 of  , relating to the establishment of  ,  , and Economic Change in the New Economy, is revoked.  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
