Executive Order  —  in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , determine that the actions and policies of certain members of   and other persons to undermine  ' democratic processes or institutions, manifested most recently in the fundamentally undemocratic   elections, to commit human rights abuses related to political repression, including detentions and disappearances, and to engage in public corruption, including by diverting or misusing   public assets or by misusing public authority, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat, and hereby order:

Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)), or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to be responsible for, or to have participated in, actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in  ;

(B) to be responsible for, or to have participated in, human rights abuses related to political repression in  ;

(C) to be a senior-level official, a family member of such an official, or a person closely linked to such an official who is responsible for or has engaged in public corruption related to  ;

(D) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in paragraphs (a)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section or any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order; or

(E) to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order.

(b) I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, (i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order, and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4. For those persons listed in or designated pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All executive agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken. The Secretary of the   shall ensure compliance with those provisions of section 401 of the   (50 U.S.C.  ) applicable to   in relation to this order.

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to determine, subsequent to the issuance of this order, that circumstances no longer warrant the inclusion of a person in the   to this order and that the property and interests in property of that person are therefore no longer blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 9. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  . The Executive order and its attached annex were published in   on  .
