Executive Order  —  and   Iraqi Property
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of August 2,  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby determine that   and   are engaged in armed hostilities, that it is in the interest of   to confiscate certain property of   and its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, and that all right, title, and interest in any property so confiscated should vest in  . I intend that such vested property should be used to assist the   people and to assist in the reconstruction of  , and determine that such use would be in the interest of and for the benefit of  .

I hereby order:

Section 1. All blocked funds held in   in accounts in the name of  ,  ,  ,  , or   are hereby confiscated and vested in  , except for the following:

(a)

any such funds that are subject to   or the Vienna Convention on  , or that enjoy equivalent privileges and immunities under the laws of  , and are or have been used for diplomatic or consular purposes, and

(b)

any such amounts that as of the date of this order are subject to post-judgment writs of execution or attachment in aid of execution of judgments pursuant to section 201 of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–297), provided that, upon satisfaction of the judgments on which such writs are based, any remainder of such excepted amounts shall, by virtue of this order and without further action, be confiscated and vested.

 . 2. The Secretary of the   is authorized to perform, without further approval, ratification, or other action of the President, all functions of the President set forth in section 203(a)(1)(C) of IEEPA with respect to any and all property of  , including its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, and to take additional steps, including the promulgation of rules and regulations as may be necessary, to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate such functions in accordance with applicable

law. The Secretary of the   shall consult the Attorney General as appropriate in the implementation of this order.

 . 3. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:06 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
