Executive Order  —  Returning Wounded Warriors and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to provide a comprehensive review of the care provided to  's returning   service men and women from the time they leave the battlefield through their return to civilian life, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Commission. There is established   Returning Wounded Warriors (Commission).

 . 2.  . The   shall be composed of nine members appointed by the President. The President shall designate two   from among the members of the  .

 . 3. Mission of Commission. The mission of the   shall be to:

(a) examine the effectiveness of returning wounded service members' transition from deployment in support of the Global War on Terror to successful return to productive military service or civilian society, and recommend needed improvements;

(b) evaluate the coordination, management, and adequacy of the delivery of health care, disability, traumatic injury, education, employment, and other benefits and services to returning wounded Global War on Terror service members by Federal agencies as well as by the private sector, and recommend ways to ensure that programs provide high-quality services;

(c) (i) analyze the effectiveness of existing outreach to service members regarding such benefits and services, and service members' level of awareness of and ability to access these benefits and services, and (ii) identify ways to reduce barriers to and gaps in these benefits and services; and

(d) consult with foundations, veterans service organizations, non-profit groups, faith-based organizations, and others as appropriate, in performing the  's functions under subsections (a) through (c) of this section.

 . 4.  .

(a) The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for the  . To the extent permitted by law, office space, analytical support, and staff support for the   shall be provided by  .

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . Members of the   appointed from among private citizens of  , while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(c)   of the   shall select an Executive Director to coordinate administration of the  .

(d) The heads of executive branch departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with information as requested by  .

(e)   the   shall convene and preside at the meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(f) The functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.)(Act), except for those in section 6 of that Act, that are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 5. Report of Commission. The   shall report its recommendations to the President through the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  . The   shall issue a final report by  , unless   provide written notice to the President that an extension is necessary, in which case the   shall issue the final report by  .

 . 6.  . The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report, unless extended by the President prior to that date.

 . 7. Establishment of Task Force. The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall establish within   for administrative purposes only an   (Task Force).

 . 8. Membership and Operation of Task Force. The Task Force shall consist exclusively of the following members, or their designees who shall be at the Under Secretary level (or its equivalent) or higher:

(a)          the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(b)          the Secretary of  ;

(c)          the Secretary of  ;

(d)          the Secretary of  ;

(e)          the Secretary of  ;

(f)          the Secretary of  ;

(g)          the Director of  ;

(h)           ; and

(i)          other officers or employees of  , as determined by the Secretary.

The Secretary or the Secretary's designee shall convene and preside at meetings of   and direct its work. The Secretary shall designate an official of   to serve as the Executive Secretary of  , and the Executive Secretary shall head any staff assigned to  .

 . 9. Mission of Task Force. The mission of the Task Force shall be to:

(a) identify and examine existing Federal services that currently are provided to returning   service members;

(b) identify existing gaps in such services;

(c) seek recommendations from appropriate Federal agencies on ways to fill those gaps as effectively and expeditiously as possible using existing resources; and

(d) (i) ensure that in providing services to these service members, appropriate Federal agencies are communicating and cooperating effectively, and (ii) facilitate the fostering of agency communications and cooperation through informal and formal means, as appropriate.

 . 10. Administration of Task Force. The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for  .

 . 11. Action Plan of Task Force. Consistent with applicable law, the Task Force shall outline a Government-wide action plan that identifies existing Federal services for returning Global War on Terror service men and women and that ensures the provision of such services to those service members as effectively and expeditiously as possible. The Task Force shall submit the action plan to the President within   of the date of this order.

 . 12. Termination of Task Force. The Secretary, with the approval of the President, shall terminate the Task Force upon the completion of its duties.

 . 13.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect (i) authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof, or (ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
