Executive Order 13261—Providing   in   and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , 5 U.S.C.  , et seq., it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of   (Administrator) during any period when both the Administrator and the Deputy Administrator of   have died, resigned, or become otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator.

 . 2. Order of Succession.

(a)

Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances;

(b)

Assistant Administrator (Air and Radiation);

(c)

Assistant Administrator,  ;

(d)

Assistant Administrator (Water Programs);

(e)

Assistant Administrator (General Counsel);

(f)

Assistant Administrator (Enforcement and Compliance Assurance);

(g)

Chief Financial Officer;

(h)

Assistant Administrator (Research and Development);

(i)

Assistant Administrator (International Activities);

(j)

Assistant Administrator ( ); and

(k)

Assistant Administrator (Environmental Information).

 . 3. Exceptions.

(a)

No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(k) in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Administrator pursuant to this order.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by   of  , 5 U.S.C.   et seq., to depart from this order in designating an acting Administrator.

 . 4. Amendments to   providing Orders of Succession. Executive Orders    ,  ,  ,  , and   of  , and Executive Orders   and   of  , are hereby amended as follows:

(a)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order 13241 of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Agriculture," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(j) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(b)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Commerce," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(h) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(c)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing

an Order of Succession Within the Department of Housing and Urban Development," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in  ) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(d)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of the Interior," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(f) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(e)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Labor," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(l) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(f)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of the Treasury," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(c) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(g)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Veterans Affairs," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(h) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.";

(h)

Section 3(a) of Executive Order   of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Health and Human Services," is replaced with the following: "(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(c) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order." and;

(i)

Section 3(b) of Executive Order 13251 of  , entitled "Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of State," is replaced with the following: "(b) No individual who is serving in

an office listed in section 2(a)–(m) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.".

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:12 p.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
