Executive Order  —Blocking Property of Persons Undermining Democratic Processes or Institutions in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , have determined that the actions and policies of certain members of   and other persons to undermine  's democratic processes or institutions, contributing to the deliberate breakdown in the rule of law in  , to politically motivated violence and intimidation in that country, and to political and economic instability in the southern   region, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of  , and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the following persons that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(a)

the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(b)

any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any of the persons listed in the   to this order.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction or dealing by a   person or within   in property or interests in property blocked pursuant to this order is prohibited, including but not limited to the making or receiving of any contribution of funds, goods, or services to or for the benefit of any person listed in the   to this order or who is the subject of a determination under subsection 1(b) of this order.

(b)

Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades

or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(c)

Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a)

The term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c)

The term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, officers, employees, or any other person.

 . 6. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 eastern standard time on  ; and

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .  

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:43 a.m.,  ,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it and the attached annexes were published in   on  .
