Executive Order  —Interagency Group on Insular Areas
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Interagency Group on Insular Areas. (a) There is established, within   for administrative purposes,   ). The group shall consist exclusively of:

(i)

the heads of the executive departments; and

(ii)

the heads of such agencies as the Secretary of the   may designate.

(b)

The Secretary of the  , or the Secretary's designee under section 1(c) of this order, shall convene and preside at the meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and direct subgroups of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of the  .

(c)

A member of the   may designate, to perform the   or   subgroup functions of the member, any person who is a part of the member's department or agency (agency) and who is either an officer of   appointed by the President or a member of  .

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall:

(a)

provide advice on establishment or implementation of policies concerning  ,  ,   Virgin Islands, and   (Insular Areas) to:

(i)

the President, through   in  , in written reports, at least once  ; and

(ii)

the Secretary of the  ;

(b)

obtain information and advice concerning   from governors and other elected officials in   (including through a meeting at least once   with such governors of   who may wish to attend) in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation;

(c)

obtain information and advice concerning  , as the   determines appropriate, from representatives of entities or other individuals in a manner that

seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation; and

(d)

at the request of the head of any agency who is a member of the  , unless the Secretary of the   declines the request, promptly review and provide advice on a policy or policy implementation action affecting one of   proposed by that agency.

 . 3.  . (a) The Secretary of the   may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, make recommendations to the President, or to the heads of agencies, regarding policy or policy implementation actions of   affecting  .

(b)

Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

 . 4.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:47 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
