Executive Order  —Amendments to Executive Orders  , and  , and Revocation of Executive Order  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended;

(a) in subsection  ):

(i) by striking "typewritten" and inserting "prepared";

(ii) by striking "8 x 13" and inserting "8.5 x 14"; and

(iii) by striking "1 1/2" and inserting "1";

(b) in subsection 2(a), by striking ", with seven copies thereof,";

(c) by striking subsections 2(c) and 2(d) and relettering subsection "2(e)" as "2(c)";

(d) in section 5, by striking "Section 12 of the Federal Register Act" and inserting in lieu thereof "section   of title  , United States Code"; and

(e) in section 6, by striking "Section 5(a) of  " and inserting in lieu thereof "subsection 1505(a) of title  , United States Code".

 . 2. Section 1(e) of Executive Order   of  , is amended to read as follows: "(e) `Specified agency heads' mean the Attorney General,    ,  ,  ,  , Labor, and  ,   and  , and the head of any other department or agency in the executive branch in which the President creates a Center for Faith-Based and  ."

 . 3. Section 9 of Executive Order   of  , is amended by deleting "  from the date of this order, unless renewed by the President" and inserting in lieu thereof " , unless extended beyond that date by the President".

 . 4. Section 6(b) of Executive Order  , is amended by striking "Unless extended by the President, this order shall expire" and inserting in lieu thereof "The provisions of this order (other than subsection 5(b) and the amendment made thereby) shall, unless extended by the President, expire".

 . 5. Section 3 of Executive Order   of  , is amended:

(a) by inserting "and" after the semicolon at the end of subsection (a);

(b) by striking "; and" at the end of subsection 3(b) and inserting a period in lieu thereof; and

(c) by striking subsection (c).

 . 6. Executive Order   of   ( ), is revoked.

 . 7. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  . This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.
