Executive Order  —Actions Concerning Regulations That Significantly Affect Energy Supply, Distribution, or Use
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to appropriately weigh and consider the effects of   regulations on the supply, distribution, and use of energy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.   can significantly affect the supply, distribution, and use of energy. Yet there is often too little information regarding the effects that governmental regulatory action can have on energy. In order to provide more useful energy-related information and hence improve the quality of agency decisionmaking, I am requiring that agencies shall prepare a   when undertaking certain agency actions. As described more fully below, such   shall describe the effects of certain regulatory actions on energy supply, distribution, or use.

 . 2. Preparation of a Statement of Energy Effects. (a) To the extent permitted by law, agencies shall prepare and submit a   to the Administrator of  ,  , for those matters identified as significant energy actions.

(b) A Statement of Energy Effects shall consist of a detailed statement by the agency responsible for the significant energy action relating to:

(i)

any adverse effects on energy supply, distribution, or use (including a shortfall in supply, price increases, and increased use of foreign supplies) should the proposal be implemented, and

(ii)

reasonable alternatives to the action with adverse energy effects and the expected effects of such alternatives on energy supply, distribution, and use.

(c)

The Administrator of   shall provide guidance to the agencies on the implementation of this order and shall consult with other agencies as appropriate in the implementation of this order.

 . 3. Submission and Publication of Statements. (a) Agencies shall submit their   to the Administrator of  ,  , whenever they present the related submission under Executive Order  , or any successor order.

(b)

Agencies shall publish their  , or a summary thereof, in each related   and in any resulting  .

 . 4. Definitions. For purposes of this order:

(a)

"Regulation" and "rule" have the same meaning as they do in Executive Order   or any successor order.

(b)

"Significant energy action" means any action by an agency (normally published in  ) that promulgates or is expected to lead to the promulgation of a final rule or regulation, including notices of inquiry, advance notices of proposed rulemaking, and notices of proposed rulemaking:

(1)

(i) that is a significant regulatory action under Executive Order   or any successor order, and

(ii)

is likely to have a significant adverse effect on the supply, distribution, or use of energy; or

(2)

that is designated by   as a significant energy action.

(c)

"Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency"  

U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

 . 5.  . Nothing in this order shall affect any otherwise available judicial review of agency action. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:19 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
