Executive Order  —Modifying the Protection Granted to   in Which   Has an Interest and Protecting  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50

U.S.C.

  et seq.), section 5 of  , as amended (22

U.S.C.

287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  , President of  , hereby modify the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  , and expanded in Executive Order 13315 of  , and further modified in Executive Order  , to address the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   posed by obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of  , the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in that country, and the development of political, administrative, and economic institutions in  . I find that the threat of attachment or other judicial process against   constitutes one of these obstacles. I further determine that, consistent with   of  , and  , the steps taken in Executive Order   to deal with the national emergency declared therein need to be limited so that such steps do not apply with respect to any final judgment arising out of a contractual obligation entered into by  , including any agency or instrumentality thereof, after  , and so that, with respect to   petroleum and petroleum products and interests therein, such steps shall apply only until title passes to the initial purchaser.

I hereby order:

Section 1. Section 1 of Executive Order

  is hereby amended to read as follows: "Section 1. (a) Except as provided in section 1(b) of this order, and unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this order, any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is prohibited and shall be deemed null and void with respect to the following:

(i)

 ;

(ii)

all   petroleum and petroleum products, and interests therein, but only until title passes to the initial purchaser, and proceeds, obligations, or any financial instruments of any nature whatsoever arising from or related to the sale or marketing thereof, and interests therein, in which any foreign country or a national thereof has any interest, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons; and

(iii) any accounts, assets, investments, or any other property of any kind owned by, belonging to, or held by  , or held, maintained, or otherwise controlled by any financial institution of any kind in the name of, on behalf of, or otherwise for  .

(b) The prohibition in section 1(a) of this order shall not apply with respect to any final judgment arising out of a contractual obligation entered into by  , including any agency or instrumentality thereof, after  ."

Sec. 2. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b) Nothing contained in this order shall relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

 . 3. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 4. This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:47 a.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was published in   on  .
