Executive Order  —Facilitation of a Presidential Transition
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 7301 of title 5, United States Code, and   of 2004 (Public Law 108-458) ( ), and in order to further the purposes of the Presidential Transition Act of  , as amended, and to assist the presidential transition, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  . (a) To assist and support the transition efforts of the transition teams for the "major party" "candidates," as those terms are used in the   and defined in section 9002(2) and (6) of     (26 U.S.C. 9002(2), (6)), and the President-elect, there is established  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of the following officials or their designees:

(i) Chief of Staff to the President, who shall serve as  ;

(ii) Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for  , who shall serve as Vice Chair;

(iii) Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy;

(iv) Counsel to the President;

(v) Assistant to the President for  ;

(vi) Assistant to the President for  ;

(vii) Assistant to the President for   and  ;

(viii) Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director,  ;

(ix) Attorney General;

(x) Director of  ;

(xi) Director of  ;

(xii) Director of  ;

(xiii) Administrator of  ;

(xiv)   of  ;

(xv) Director of  ; and

(xvi) Such others as the President or   may select.

(c) The   shall assist the major party candidates and the President-elect by making every reasonable effort to facilitate the transition between administrations. This assistance may include, among other things, providing information relevant to facilitating the personnel aspects of a presidential transition and such other information that, in the  's judgment, is useful and appropriate, as long as providing such information is not otherwise prohibited by law.

(d) In order to obtain a wide range of facts and information on prior transitions and best practices, the  , its members, or their designees may, from time to time, seek information from private individuals, including individuals within outside organizations, who have significant experience or expertise in presidential transitions. The  , its members, or their designees shall endeavor to obtain such facts and information from individuals representing a range of bipartisan or nonpartisan viewpoints. If the  , its members, or their designees find it necessary to seek advice from private individuals or outside organizations, such counsel should be sought in a manner that seeks individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or deliberation.

(e) It shall be the policy of the   to provide appropriate information and assistance to the major party candidates on an equal basis and without regard for party affiliation.

 . 2.  . (a) At the direction of the   or its designee(s),   shall coordinate orientation activities with the appropriate agencies, including   and  , for key prospective presidential appointees.

(b) At the direction of the   or its designee(s),   shall supplement as appropriate and necessary the electronic record of all title 5 presidentially appointed positions provided by   to the major party candidates pursuant to section 8403(b) of  .

(c) The Suitability and Security Clearance Performance Accountability Council shall coordinate with the   when performing those functions authorized by Executive Order  , that are necessary to assist in transition-related activities.

(d) At the direction of the   or its designee(s), executive departments and agencies shall prepare a set of briefing materials for new political appointees before the inauguration of the President-elect. The current Administration shall work with the incoming transition team to provide copies of all such materials.

(e) At the direction of the   or its designee(s) and consistent with the Presidential Transition Act of  , as amended,  , in consultation with the   of   and other appropriate agencies, shall develop a Transition Directory. This directory shall include Federal publications and other materials that provide information on each executive department and agency.

 . 3. Transition Agreements. To assist and support the transition, transition agreements between   or appropriate executive branch departments and agencies and the transition teams for the major party candidates and the President-elect will be entered into, as necessary, regarding transition procedures and identification of transition contacts.

 . 4.  . (a) In order to take appropriate account of the transition reforms made by   and to further update and clarify the presidential transition process, this order supersedes Executive Order   of  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is intended only to facilitate the transition and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) Unless extended by the President, this order shall expire on  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
