Executive Order  —Strengthening Adult Education
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to use existing Federal programs that serve adults, including new  , to strengthen literacy skills, improve opportunities for postsecondary education and employment, and facilitate participation in   life.

 . 2. Definitions. As used in this order:

(a) "agency" means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, other than  ; and

(b) "adult education" means teaching or instruction below the postsecondary level, for individuals who are   older, designed to provide:

(i) mastery of basic education skills needed to function effectively in society;

(ii) a secondary school diploma or its equivalent; or

(iii) the ability to speak, read, or write the English language.

 . 3. Establishment of Interagency Adult Education Working Group. The Secretary of   shall establish within   for administrative purposes only, an Interagency Adult Education Working Group ( ), consistent with this order.

 . 4. Membership and Operation of  .

(a)   shall consist exclusively of:

(i) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, and the Secretaries of the Interior, Labor,  ,  , and  ; and

(iii) other officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  , as determined by the  , with the concurrence of the head of the agency concerned.

(b) The Chair, or the  's designee under subsection (c) of this section, in implementing section 5 of this order, shall convene and preside at the meetings of  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and establish and direct subgroups of  , as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, that shall consist exclusively of members of   or their designees under subsection (c) of this section.

(c) A member of   may designate, to perform   or   subgroup functions of the member, any person who is a part of the member's agency and who is either an officer of   appointed by the President or a member of  .

 . 5. Functions of  . Consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order,   shall:

(a) identify Federal programs that:

(i) focus primarily on improving the basic education skills of adults;

(ii) have the goal of transitioning adults from basic literacy to postsecondary education, training, or employment; or

(iii) constitute programs of adult education;

(b) as appropriate, review the programs identified under subsection (a) of this section and submit to the heads of the agencies administering those programs recommendations to:

(i) promote the transition of adults from such programs to postsecondary education, training, or employment;

(ii) increase the effectiveness, efficiency, and availability of such programs;

(iii) minimize unnecessary duplication among such programs;

(iv) measure and evaluate the performance of such programs; and

(v) undertake and disseminate the results of research related to such programs;

(c) identify gaps in the research about effective ways to teach adult education for postsecondary readiness, recommend areas for further research to improve adult education programs and services, and identify promising practices in disseminating valid existing and future research findings; and

(d) obtain information and advice as appropriate, in a manner that seeks individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation, concerning adult education from:

(i) State, local, territorial, and tribal officials; and

(ii) representatives of entities or other individuals;

(e) at the request of the head of an agency, unless the   declines the request, promptly review and provide advice on a proposed action by that agency relating to adult education; and

(f) report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, on its work, and on the implementation of any recommendations arising from its work, at such times and in such formats as the   may specify, with the first such report to be submitted no   after the date of this order.

 . 6. Administration of  .

(a) To the extent permitted by law,   shall provide the funding and administrative support   needs, as determined by the  , to implement this order.

(b) The heads of agencies shall provide, as appropriate, such assistance and information as the   may request to implement this order.

 . 7. General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its agencies or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
