Executive Order  —  and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit,  , or Support Terrorism
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.)(IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution ( )   of  , UNSCR   of  , UNSCR   of  , and the multilateral sanctions contained therein, and UNSCR 1363 of  , establishing a mechanism to monitor the implementation of UNSCR  ,

I,  , President of  , find that grave acts of terrorism and threats of terrorism committed by foreign terrorists, including the terrorist attacks in  ,  , and the   committed on  , acts recognized and condemned in UNSCR   of  , and UNSCR 1269 of  , and the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks on   nationals or   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  , and in furtherance of my proclamation of  , Declaration of National Emergency by Reason of  , hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I also find that because of the pervasiveness and expansiveness of the financial foundation of foreign terrorists, financial sanctions may be appropriate for those foreign persons that support or otherwise associate with these foreign terrorists. I also find that a need exists for further consultation and cooperation with, and sharing of information by,   and foreign financial institutions as an additional tool to enable   to combat the financing of terrorism.

I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent required by section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), or provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the following persons that are in   or that hereafter come within  , or that hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons are blocked:

(a)

foreign persons listed in the   to this order;

(b)

foreign persons determined by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General, to have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, acts of terrorism that threaten the security of   nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of  ;

(c)

persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, to be owned or controlled by, or to act for or

on behalf of those persons listed in the   to this order or those persons determined to be subject to subsection 1(b), 1(c), or 1(d)(i) of this order;

(d)

except as provided in section 5 of this order and after such consultation, if any, with foreign authorities as the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General, deems appropriate in the exercise of his discretion, persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General;

(i)

to assist in, sponsor, or provide financial, material, or technological support for, or financial or other services to or in support of, such acts of terrorism or those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to this order; or

(ii)

to be otherwise associated with those persons listed in the   to this order or those persons determined to be subject to subsection 1(b), 1(c), or 1(d)(i) of this order.

 . 2. Except to the extent required by section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)), or provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date:

(a)

any transaction or dealing by   persons or within   in property or interests in property blocked pursuant to this order is prohibited, including but not limited to the making or receiving of any contribution of funds, goods, or services to or for the benefit of those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to this order;

(b)

any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited; and

(c)

any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For purposes of this order:

(a)

the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

the term "entity" means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup;

(c)

the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d)

the term "terrorism" means an activity that -

(i)

involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure; and

(ii) appears to be intended -

(A)

to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;

(B)

to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or

(C)

to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or hostage-taking.

 . 4. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by   persons to persons determined to be subject to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and would endanger   that are in a situation where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, and hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order. Furthermore, I hereby determine that   of   (title IX, Public Law 106–387) shall not affect the imposition or the continuation of the imposition of any unilateral agricultural sanction or unilateral medical sanction on any person determined to be subject to this order because imminent involvement of   in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances.

 . 5. With respect to those persons designated pursuant to subsection 1(d) of this order, the Secretary of the  , in the exercise of his discretion and in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, may take such other actions than the complete blocking of property or interests in property as the President is authorized to take under   and UNPA if the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, deems such other actions to be consistent with the national interests of  , considering such factors as he deems appropriate.

 . 6. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and other appropriate agencies shall make all relevant efforts to cooperate and coordinate with other countries, including through technical assistance, as well as bilateral and multilateral agreements and arrangements, to achieve the objectives of this order, including the prevention and suppression of acts of terrorism, the denial of financing and financial services to terrorists and terrorist organizations, and the sharing of intelligence about funding activities in support of terrorism.

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 8. Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter     chapter V, except as expressly terminated, modified, or suspended by or pursuant to this order.

 . 9. Nothing contained in this order is intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, officers, employees or any other person.

 . 10. For those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 11. (a) This order is effective at 12:01

a.m.   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:05 p.m.,  ]

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  . This Executive order and the attached annex were published in   on September

25.
