Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 2 of this order and to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the direct or indirect importation into the United States of all rough diamonds from Sierra Leone on or after the effective date of this order is prohibited.

Sec. 2. The prohibition in section 1 of this order shall not apply to the importation of rough diamonds controlled through the Certificate of Origin regime of the Government of Sierra Leone.

Sec. 3. Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

Sec. 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c)

the term "United States person" means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;

(d)

the term "rough diamond" means all unworked diamonds classifiable in heading 7102 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; and

(e)

the term "controlled through the Certificate of Origin regime of the Government of Sierra Leone" means accompanied by a Certificate of Origin or other documentation that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the United States Customs Service (or analogous officials of a United States territory or possession with its own customs administration) that the rough diamonds were legally exported from Sierra Leone with the approval of the Government of Sierra Leone.

Sec. 5. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and UNPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

Sec. 6. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, officers, or any other person.

Sec. 7. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 19, 2001.
