1.
Total outlays for any fiscal year shall not
exceed total receipts for that fiscal year, unless two-thirds of the whole
number of each House of Congress shall provide by law for a specific excess of
outlays over receipts by a roll call vote.
2.
The limit on the debt of the United States
held by the public shall not be increased, unless two-thirds of the whole
number of each House shall provide by law for such an increase by a roll call
vote.
3.
Outlays for the total budget may not exceed
the previous fiscal years’ outlays plus population growth and inflation, unless
two-thirds of the whole number of each House shall provide for such increase by
a roll call vote.
4.
Prior to each fiscal year, the House of
Representatives shall develop a proposed budget for the United States
Government for that fiscal year in which total outlays do not exceed total
receipts.
5.
No bill to increase revenue shall become
law unless approved by two-thirds of the whole number of each House by a roll
call vote.
6.
The Congress may waive the provisions of
this article for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is in effect,
with a vote of a majority of both houses.
7.
The Congress shall enforce and implement
this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely on estimates of outlays
and receipts.
8.
All outlays above revenues from the
previous fiscal year must be accounted for in the outlays and budgets of the
following fiscal year.
9.
All surplus revenues at the end of a fiscal
year shall be allocated to a fund to be returned to the taxpayers. The method
of return to the taxpayers must be determined by legislation before the end of
the subsequent fiscal year.
10.
Total receipts shall include all receipts
of the United States Government except those derived from borrowing. Total
outlays shall include all outlays of the United States Government including
those for debt service and other debt functions.
11.
This article shall take effect beginning
with the second fiscal year beginning after its
ratification.
.
