1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Access to VA Care Act
.
2.
Temporary disability rating
(a)
In general
Section 1156 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(E)
To a veteran who—
(i)
is not described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D); and
(ii)
files a claim for disability compensation under this chapter.
;
(2)
by adding after paragraph (3) of subsection (a) the following new paragraph:
(4)
With respect to a veteran described in paragraph (1)(E), the Secretary shall schedule a medical examination for such veteran concerning the disability of the veteran as soon as is practicable after the veteran files a claim for disability compensation under this chapter.
; and
(3)
in subsection (b)(1), by adding after subparagraph (D) the following new subparagraph:
(E)
For a veteran who is assigned a temporary disability rating under subsection (a)(1)(E), until the date on which a rating decision is issued to such veteran following the medical examination scheduled under subsection (a)(4).
.
(b)
Health care
Section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(3)—
(A)
by striking
and veterans described
and inserting
veterans described
; and
(B)
by inserting
, and veterans assigned a temporary disability rating under section 1156(a)(1)(E) of this title
after
of this title
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection (d):
(d)
(1)
The Secretary shall assist a veteran described in paragraph (3) in finding hospital care and medical services to be provided to the veteran by non-Department facilities or providers after the Secretary ceases to furnish such care and services under this chapter to the veteran.
(2)
A veteran described in paragraph (3) shall not owe the United States for any costs of hospital care or medical services described in subparagraph (A) of such paragraph.
(3)
A veteran described in this paragraph is a veteran who—
(A)
received hospital care and medical services under this chapter pursuant to a temporary disability rating assigned under section 1156(a)(1)(E) of this title; and
(B)
the Secretary determines does not have a service-connected disability.
.
