1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tax Return Preparer Accountability Act of 2017
.
2.
Regulation of tax return preparers who are not representatives practicing before the Department of the Treasury
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 3
of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 330
the following new section:
330A.
Tax return preparers who are not representatives practicing before the Department of the Treasury
(a)
The Secretary of the Treasury shall, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, regulate any tax return preparers who are not regulated by the Secretary under section 330.
(b)
(1)
The Secretary may impose a penalty of $1,000 for each Federal tax return, document, or other submission prepared by a tax return preparer during a period in which the tax return preparer—
(A)
is not in compliance with the regulations promulgated under this section, or
(B)
is suspended or disbarred from acting as a tax return preparer under such regulations.
Any penalty imposed under the preceding sentence shall be in addition to any other penalty which
may be imposed.
(2)
No penalty may be imposed under paragraph (1) with respect to any failure if it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause.
(c)
For purposes of this section:
(1)
The term
tax return preparer
has the meaning given by
section 7701(a)(36)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(2)
The terms
Secretary of the Treasury
and
Secretary
mean the Secretary of the Treasury or the delegate of the Secretary.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for subchapter II of
chapter 3
of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 330
the following new item:
330A. Tax return preparers who are not representatives practicing before the Department of the
Treasury.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to returns prepared for taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.
