1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018
.
2.
Disclosure requirements for United States-based foreign media outlets
Title VII of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 601
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
721.
Disclosure requirements for United States-based foreign media outlets
(a)
Reports by outlets to Commission
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, and not less frequently than every 6 months thereafter, a United States-based foreign media outlet shall submit to the Commission a report that contains the following information:
(1)
The name of such outlet.
(2)
A description of the relationship of such outlet to the foreign principal of such outlet, including a description of the legal structure of such relationship and any funding that such outlet receives from such principal.
(b)
Reports by Commission to Congress
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this section, and not less frequently than every 6 months thereafter, the Commission shall transmit to Congress a report that summarizes the contents of the reports submitted by United States-based foreign media outlets under subsection (a) during the preceding 6-month period.
(c)
Public availability
The Commission shall make publicly available on the internet website of the Commission each report submitted by a United States-based foreign media outlet under subsection (a) not later than the earlier of—
(1)
the date that is 30 days after the outlet submits the report to the Commission; or
(2)
the date on which the Commission transmits to Congress under subsection (b) the report covering the 6-month period during which the report of the outlet was submitted to the Commission under subsection (a).
(d)
Statement required To be included in video programming
(1)
In general
It shall be unlawful for a United States-based foreign media outlet to produce or distribute any video programming for or in the interests of a foreign principal of such outlet, if such programming is transmitted, or intended for transmission, by a multichannel video programming distributor to consumers in the United States, without including in such programming a conspicuous statement that the programming is produced or distributed by such outlet on behalf of such foreign principal, and that additional information is available in semiannual reports of such outlet posted on the internet website of the Commission. The Commission may by rule define what constitutes a conspicuous statement for the purposes of this subsection.
(2)
Frequency
In the case of video programming that is longer than 60 minutes in duration, the statement required by paragraph (1) shall be included at least once in each 60-minute segment of programming.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Foreign principal
The term
foreign principal
has the meaning given such term in section 1(b)(1) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (
22 U.S.C. 611(b)(1)
).
(2)
Multichannel video programming distributor
The term
multichannel video programming distributor
has the meaning given such term in section 602.
(3)
United States-based foreign media outlet
The term
United States-based foreign media outlet
means an entity that—
(A)
produces or distributes video programming that is transmitted, or intended for transmission, by a multichannel video programming distributor to consumers in the United States; and
(B)
would be an agent of a foreign principal (as defined in paragraph (1)) for purposes of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (
22 U.S.C. 611
et seq.) but for section 1(d) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 611(d)
).
(4)
Video programming
The term
video programming
has the meaning given such term in section 602.
.
