1.
3
-day waiting period required before receipt of a handgun, with exceptions
(a)
Transfers between persons who are not firearms licensees
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(aa)
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall be unlawful for a person not licensed under this chapter, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, to receive a handgun purchased or borrowed from another person not licensed under this chapter unless at least 3 days have elapsed since the recipient most recently offered to so purchase or borrow the handgun.
(2)
Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to a handgun loan that meets the conditions of subsection (t)(7).
.
(b)
Transfers by firearms licensees to non-licensees
Section 922(t) of such title is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
(B)
(i)
in the case of a transfer that is not the purchase of a handgun, or is a handgun loan that meets the conditions of paragraph (7)—
(I)
the system provides the licensee with a unique identification number; or
(II)
3 business days (meaning a day on which State offices are open) have elapsed since the licensee contacted the system, and the system has not notified the licensee that the receipt of a firearm by such other person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of this section; and
(ii)
in the case of a transfer that is the purchase of a handgun, or is a handgun loan that does not meet the conditions of paragraph (7), 3 business days (meaning a day on which State offices are open) have elapsed since the licensee contacted the system, and the system has not notified the licensee that the receipt of a firearm by such other person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of this section; and
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(7)
A handgun loan meets the conditions of this paragraph if the loan meets the following conditions:
(A)
The borrower is the spouse, domestic partner registered as such under State law, or any of the following relations, whether by consanguinity, adoption, or steprelation, of the lender:
(i)
Parent.
(ii)
Child.
(iii)
Sibling.
(iv)
Grandparent.
(v)
Grandchild.
(B)
The lender has not loaned the handgun to the borrower on more than 5 prior occasions in the calendar year.
(C)
The loan is for any lawful purpose.
(D)
The loan is for a period of not more than 30 days.
.
(c)
Penalties
Section 924(a)(1)(B) of such title is amended by striking
or (q)
and inserting
(q), or (aa)
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to conduct engaged in after the 90-day period that begins with the date of the enactment of this Act.
