1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
21st Century Worker Opportunity Act
.
2.
Broadband service for displaced workers program
(a)
Creation of program
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall implement and administer a program that provides displaced workers with a subsidy or coupon for a lump sum payment of $500 that may only be applied towards—
(1)
obtaining broadband Internet access service; or
(2)
remote job training in a profession not likely to be automated in the next 20 years.
(b)
Program specifications
(1)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a subsidy or coupon under the program, a displaced worker who has been laid off or terminated shall submit to the Assistant Secretary a certification from an employer that the worker was employed in the manufacturing sector and was laid off or terminated due to the automation of the position of the worker.
(2)
Limitations
(A)
One per household
Not more than one request per household to receive a subsidy or coupon may be made under the program.
(B)
No combination of subsidy or coupon
A subsidy or coupon distributed under the program may not be combined with any other subsidy or coupon distributed under the program.
(c)
Reports required
Not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce and the Comptroller General shall submit to the committees on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report for the previous 6 months that reviews the program established under subsection (a). Such report shall include any recommendations to address waste, fraud, and abuse.
(d)
Rulemaking
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement this section, including methods to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse within the program.
(e)
Consumer awareness campaign
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall launch a consumer awareness campaign about the program established under this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Assistant Secretary
The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
(2)
Automation
The term
automation
means the introduction of machinery into any enterprise that is intended to, or has the effect of, replacing human labor.
(3)
Broadband Internet access service
The term
broadband Internet access service
has the meaning given that term in section 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
(4)
Displaced worker
The term
displaced worker
means an individual who, due to automation, has been terminated or laid off from employment, or who has received a notice of termination or layoff from employment.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
Program
There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000,000 for the program established under this Act, of which not more than 5 percent is authorized for administrative expenses.
(2)
Inspector General
There is authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 to the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce.
(3)
Consumer awareness campaign
There is authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for the consumer awareness campaign described under subsection (e).
