1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Overcome Trauma for Children Alone in Rear Seats Act
or the
HOT CARS Act of 2017
.
2.
Child safety
(a)
Amendment
(1)
In general
Chapter 323
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding after section 32304A the following new section:
32304B.
Child safety
(a)
Rule required
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a final rule requiring all new passenger motor vehicles weighing less than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight to be equipped with a system for rear seating positions to alert the operator to check rear designated seating positions after the vehicle motor is deactivated by the operator. The means shall include a distinct auditory and visual alert that may be combined with a haptic alert, and shall be activated after the vehicle motor is deactivated by the operator.
(b)
Phase-In
The rule issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall require full compliance with the rule beginning on September 1st of the calendar year that begins 2 years after the date on which the final rule is issued.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Passenger motor vehicle
The term
passenger motor vehicle
has the meaning given that term in section 32101.
(2)
Rear designated seating position
The term
rear designated seating position
means any designated seating position that is rearward of the front seat.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 323
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 32304A and inserting the following new items:
32304A. Consumer tire information and standards.
32304B. Child safety.
.
(b)
Awareness of children in motor vehicles
Section 402 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (k) the following new subsection:
(l)
Unattended passengers
A State shall use a portion of the amounts received under this section to carry out a program to educate the public on the risks of leaving a child or unattended passenger in a vehicle after the vehicle motor is deactivated by the operator. A State does not need to carry out the program through its transportation or highway safety office.
.
