1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community College Energy Training Act of 2017
.
2.
Sustainable energy training program for community colleges
(a)
Workforce training and education in sustainable energy
From funds made available under
subsection (c)
, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Agriculture, shall carry out a joint sustainable energy workforce training and education program under which the Secretaries award grants to community colleges to provide workforce training and education in industries and practices such as—
(1)
clean energy, including wind and solar energy;
(2)
high-performance green building construction, design and redevelopment;
(3)
sustainable energy technologies, including chemical technology, nanotechnology, and electrical technology;
(4)
water, energy, and resource conservation;
(5)
recycling and waste reduction; and
(6)
sustainable agriculture and farming.
(b)
Award considerations
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretaries shall—
(1)
ensure that of the funds made available under
subsection (c)
for a fiscal year, not less than one-half of such funds are awarded to community colleges with existing (as of the date of the award) sustainability programs that lead to certificates, credentials, or degrees in one or more of the industries and practices described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of
subsection (a)
; and
(2)
give priority to community colleges that plan to use the grant to carry out programs that are developed and maintained through consultation with such industries and practices.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Community college
The term
community college
means an institution of higher education, as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
), that—
(A)
provides a 2-year program of instruction for which the institution awards an associate degree; and
(B)
primarily awards associate degrees.
(2)
High-performance green building
The term
high-performance green building
has the meaning given the term in section 401(13) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17061(13)
).
(3)
Secretaries
The term
Secretaries
means the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Agriculture.
