1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Tax Relief for Artists Act of 2017
.
2.
Standard deduction for the trade or business expenses of artists
(a)
In general
Section 162
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (q) as subsection (r) and by inserting after subsection (p) the following new subsection:
(q)
Standard deduction for trade or business expenses of artists
(1)
In general
In the case of a qualified taxpayer who elects the application of this subsection for any taxable year, there shall be allowed as a deduction for such taxable year an amount equal to the lesser of—
(A)
$2,500, or
(B)
the gross income of the taxpayer derived from one or more artistic trades or businesses carried on by the taxpayer (or, if less, taxable income).
(2)
Qualified taxpayer
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified taxpayer
means any taxpayer with respect to any taxable year if—
(A)
the taxpayer’s household income for the taxable year does not exceed 250 percent of the poverty line for a family of the size involved, and
(B)
the taxpayer has gross income derived from one or more artistic trades or businesses carried on by the taxpayer.
(3)
Artistic trade or business
For purposes of this subsection, the term
artistic trade or business
means any trade or business in the literary, graphic design, film, visual, media, musical, theatre, recording, or dance arts.
(4)
Other definitions and special rules
For purposes of this subsection—
(A)
Definitions related to household income
Terms used in paragraph (2)(A) which are also used in section 36B shall have the same meaning as when used in such section.
(B)
Joint returns
In the case of a joint return, paragraph (1)(A) shall be applied by substituting
$5,000
for
$2,500
if both spouses would be treated as a qualified taxpayer if each spouse filed a separate return.
(C)
Denial of double benefit
If the taxpayer elects the application of this subsection for any taxable year, no deduction (other than the deduction allowed under paragraph (1)) shall be allowable under this chapter to the taxpayer with respect to any amount paid or incurred during such taxable year with respect to any artistic trade or business carried on by the taxpayer.
(D)
Regulations
The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
