1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
21st Century Voting Act
.
2.
Commission established
There is hereby established the
Commission on Voting
(referred to in this Act as the
Commission
).
3.
Commission duties
(a)
Proposed legislation
The Commission shall report to Congress proposed legislation that would accomplish the following:
(1)
Election Day shall be made a national holiday.
(2)
Every American shall be automatically, and permanently, registered to vote at the age of 18, or upon receipt of citizenship if older than 18 years of age.
(3)
Every person released from prison who formerly held the right to vote shall have that right restored immediately upon release.
(4)
Voter registration shall be made portable among every State and locality.
(5)
Polling place and registration status shall be made available to individual voters online.
(6)
Voting cybersecurity protection efforts carried out by Federal agencies shall be streamlined and strengthened.
(7)
Additional Federal resources shall be made to State and local election boards and agencies.
(8)
A quadrennial review of voting in America shall be performed each year following the election of the President of the United States.
(b)
Deadline
The proposed legislation required by subsection (a) shall be submitted to Congress not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Introduction and vote required
The proposed legislation submitted to Congress pursuant to subsection (b) shall be introduced by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives within 14 days of receipt of the proposal, and receive a vote in the House within 14 days thereafter. Should the measure pass the House, it shall receive consideration and a vote in the Senate within 14 days of passage in the House.
4.
Commission membership
(a)
Number and appointment
The Commission shall be comprised of 15 members appointed, in equal number, by the President, the Majority Leader of the Senate, the Minority Leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Chair
The President shall select the Chair of the Commission.
(c)
Timing of appointments
Appointments to the Commission shall be made not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(d)
Vacancies
Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers and shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(e)
Compensation
Members of the Commission shall serve without pay.
(f)
Travel expenses
Each member of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.
