1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fort Pillow National Battlefield Park Study Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Fort Pillow was built by Confederate troops in 1861 and named after General Gideon J. Pillow of Maury County.
(2)
In 1862, the area was abandoned due to the Union Navy advancement along the Mississippi River.
(3)
The Fort was attacked and captured by the Union Navy, which mostly controlled it during the war.
(4)
On June 4, 1862, Confederate troops evacuated Fort Pillow, enabling Union troops to take Memphis, Tennessee.
(5)
On April 12, 1864, the Battle of Fort Pillow was fought at Fort Pillow on the Mississippi River in Henning, Tennessee, during the American Civil War.
(6)
The Confederate troops defeated the Union Navy, resulting in the death of 229 of the 262 black Union soldiers engaged in the battle.
(7)
In 1971, Fort Pillow became a State park.
(8)
In 1973, Fort Pillow was designated as a Historic Park.
(9)
Fort Pillow Historic State Park consists of 1,642 acres.
(10)
It preserves the American Civil War site of the Battle of Fort Pillow.
(11)
The park contains several attraction areas such as a Civil War museum, hiking trail, camping ground, and picnic area.
3.
Fort Pillow special resource study
(a)
Study
The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
) shall conduct a special resource study of Fort Pillow Historic State Park in Henning, Tennessee.
(b)
Contents
In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
evaluate the national significance of the site;
(2)
determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the site as a unit of the National Park System; and
(3)
consider other alternatives for preservation, protection, and interpretation of the lands by Federal, State, or local governmental entities, or private and nonprofit organizations.
(c)
Applicable law
The study authorized under subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States Code.
(d)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available for the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that describes—
(1)
the findings of the study; and
(2)
any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.
