1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Compete for the Future Act of 2018
.
2.
Establishment of prize competition
(a)
Prize competition
(1)
In general
From the amounts appropriated under
subsection (d)
, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall establish a prize competition for eligible programs designed to prepare high school students to enter and succeed in an in-demand industry sector or occupation. Such competition shall meet the requirements of section 24 of the Stevenson-Wylder Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3719
).
(2)
Selection
In selecting a winner for each prize, the Secretary shall evaluate how successfully an eligible program provides high school students with the rigorous and challenging academic and technical knowledge and skills such students need to prepare for careers in in-demand industry sectors or occupations, including by earning an industry-recognized certificate or credential or by entering a postsecondary apprenticeship.
(3)
Priority
In evaluating eligible programs for each prize, the Secretary shall give priority to applications from eligible programs that are located in or adjacent to a census tract that is certified and designated as a qualified opportunity zone (as defined in
section 1400Z–1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
(b)
Eligible program
The term
eligible program
means a program or set of strategies, including a pre-apprenticeship program, a registered youth apprenticeship program, or other similar secondary school program, that—
(1)
prepares high school students to enter and succeed in an in-demand industry sector or occupation by—
(A)
entering an apprenticeship program upon completion of the eligible program; or
(B)
earning a recognized credential upon completion of the eligible program;
(2)
has a documented industry partnership; and
(3)
incorporates training and curriculum based on industry standards and approved by the documented industry partnership that will prepare individuals with the skills and competencies needed to enter an in-demand industry sector or occupation.
(c)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the conclusion of a prize competition under
subsection (a)
, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall report to Congress recommendations on best practices for creating and developing pre-apprenticeship and other programs designed to prepare high school students to enter and succeed in an in-demand industry sector or occupation.
(d)
Other definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Apprenticeship
The term
apprenticeship
refers to an apprenticeship registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.).
(2)
Documented industry partnership
The term
documented industry partnership
means a workforce collaborative, acting in partnership with a program that is designed to prepare high school students to enter and succeed in an in-demand industry sector or occupation, that organizes key stakeholders in an industry into a working group that focuses on the shared goals and human resources needs of the industry and that includes representatives of multiple businesses or other employers in the industry, including small and medium-sized employers when practicable, and at the appropriate stage of development of the partnership, may include representatives of—
(A)
State or local government;
(B)
State or local economic development agencies;
(C)
a recognized State labor organization or central labor council, or another labor representative, as appropriate;
(D)
State boards or local boards, as appropriate;
(E)
a State workforce agency or other entity providing employment services;
(F)
an institution of higher education with, or another provider of, education or training programs that support the industry;
(G)
business or trade associations;
(H)
economic development organizations;
(I)
nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations, or intermediaries;
(J)
industry associations; and
(K)
other organizations, as determined to be necessary by the members comprising the documented industry partnership.
(3)
High school
The term
high school
has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(4)
In-demand industry sector or occupation
The term
in-demand industry sector or occupation
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
).
(5)
Recognized credential
The term
recognized credential
means a credential consisting of an industry-recognized certificate or certification, or a certificate of completion of an apprenticeship.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 to carry out this Act.
