1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stabilization to Prevent Suicide Act
or the
STOP Suicide Act
.
2.
Grants to implement models for providing stabilization services
Title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 520N (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–45
) the following:
520O.
Grants to implement models for providing stabilization services
(a)
In general
The Assistant Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to implement models for providing stabilization services to individuals with serious thoughts of suicide.
(b)
Applications
(1)
In general
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Assistant Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Assistant Secretary determines is appropriate, which shall include the plan described in paragraph (2).
(2)
Continuity plan
An application described in paragraph (1) shall include a plan for how an eligible entity will continue to finance the provision of stabilization services supported by a grant awarded under this section following the end of the grant period of such grant.
(c)
Eligible uses
A grant awarded under this section—
(1)
shall be used to provide or support the provision of stabilization services that are—
(A)
suicide-specific;
(B)
evidence-based or evidence-informed; and
(C)
provided in the least-restrictive setting that is appropriate for the needs of the individual to whom such services are provided; and
(2)
may be used to provide or support the provision of stabilization services that take the form of outpatient care, virtual care, or other technology-related innovations, which may include peer support services.
(d)
Grant period
The term of a grant awarded under this section shall not exceed 5 years. Such term is not renewable.
(e)
Evaluations, training, and technical assistance
The Assistant Secretary shall—
(1)
conduct an evaluation of the activities supported by the grants awarded under this section and disseminate, as appropriate, the findings of such evaluation;
(2)
provide training and other information, as appropriate, to any eligible entity that is awarded a grant under this section; and
(3)
provide technical assistance, as appropriate, to any eligible entity that is awarded a grant under this section.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a community-based primary care or behavioral health care provider, including—
(i)
a school-based health center;
(ii)
a campus-based health center at an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965);
(iii)
a community health center;
(iv)
a rural health clinic (as defined in section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act);
(v)
a Federally qualified health center (as defined in such section 1861(aa));
(vi)
a certified community behavioral health clinic; and
(vii)
a children’s hospital;
(B)
a crisis center;
(C)
a public health agency, including—
(i)
a State mental health agency; and
(ii)
a State health agency with mental or behavioral health functions;
(D)
a territory of the United States; and
(E)
an Indian tribe or tribal organization (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act).
(2)
Stabilization services
The term
stabilization services
means a clinical intervention or treatment that—
(A)
reduces or eliminates a state of acute emotional crisis;
(B)
reduces or eliminates clear and imminent suicide risk of the patient; or
(C)
helps the patient establish behavioral control over acute impulsive states.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
.
