1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Our Pediatric Mental Health Workforce Act
.
2.
Guidance to States on strategies under medicaid and chip to increase pediatric mental and behavioral health provider education, training, recruitment, retention, and support
Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue guidance to States on strategies (including strategies that utilize waivers under section 1115 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315
) or other authorities under titles XIX and XXI of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
, 1397aa et seq.)) such States may utilize under the Medicaid and CHIP programs to—
(1)
increase the education, training, recruitment, and retention of pediatricians, child and adolescent psychiatrists, and other pediatric mental and behavioral health providers that participate in such programs;
(2)
improve the capacity of pediatricians, child and adolescent psychiatrists, and other pediatric mental and behavioral health providers that serve populations with limited English proficiency;
(3)
recruit and retain pediatricians, child and adolescent psychiatrists, and other pediatric mental and behavioral health professionals that practice in rural and underserved areas;
(4)
expand the capacity of the pediatric mental and behavioral health care workforce that practices in rural and underserved areas;
(5)
increase the recruitment and retention of racial and ethnic minorities in the pediatric mental and behavioral health professions;
(6)
promote the capabilities of and payments available to pediatric mental and behavioral providers across disciplines that participate in such programs through implementation of integrated care models, primary care behavioral health models, collaborative care models, pediatric mental health care telehealth access programs (as described in section 330M(b) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 254c–19(b)
)), and consultation with and training of other allied professionals and community organizations engaged in pediatric mental and behavioral health services; and
(7)
improve provider participation and recruitment in such programs through various incentive strategies, such as increased reimbursement, scholarships, and student loan repayment programs, and to support the needs of pediatricians, child and adolescent psychiatrists, and other pediatric mental and behavioral health providers that participate in such programs to reduce rates of turnover, burnout, and intent to leave.
3.
Report on strategies under medicaid and chip to increase pediatric mental and behavioral health provider education, training, recruitment, retention, and support
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and make publicly available, a report analyzing implementation of strategies described in section 2.
