1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United Against Transnational Criminal Organizations Act
.
2.
Bolstering DHS efforts to combat cross-border threats posed by transnational criminal organizations
(a)
DHS Joint Task Force
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding subsection (b)(11) of section 708 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 348
), not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, pursuant to such section, establish a Department of Homeland Security Joint Task Force to conduct operations using personnel and capabilities of the Department to combat cross-border threats posed by transnational criminal organizations operating along the land borders of the United States for the purpose specified in clause (i) of subsection (b)(2)(A) of such section. Such task force shall—
(A)
pay particular attention to transnational criminal organizations that target foreign nationals, particularly children and families, for smuggling or trafficking across the land border of the United States; and
(B)
when appropriate, refer to the Attorney General for prosecution border-related criminal activity.
(2)
Priorities
The task force established in accordance with paragraph (1) may, when appropriate, refer to the Attorney General for prosecution border-related criminal activity, and shall pay particular attention to transnational criminal organizations that—
(A)
target people, particularly children and families, for smuggling or trafficking across the land borders of the United States; or
(B)
are engaged in the smuggling or trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl chemical precursors, or related equipment and material across the land borders of the United States.
(3)
Performance metrics
Consistent with subsection (b)(9) of section 708 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish and submit to the appropriate congressional committees performance metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the Joint Task Force established pursuant to paragraph (1). Such performance metrics shall include outcome-based metrics associated with efforts to achieve the priorities described in paragraph (2), including information on effectiveness at identifying transnational criminal organizations engaged in such activity, the sharing of information regarding such organizations, efforts to dismantle or disrupt such activity by such organizations, and investigative contributions to the prosecution of such organizations.
(4)
Quarterly reports to Congress
Not later than four months after the establishment of the Joint Task Force pursuant to paragraph (1) and every four months thereafter until such Joint Task Force is disbanded by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (4), the Director of such Joint Task Force shall report to the appropriate congressional committees on the activities of such Joint Task Force during the preceding four-month period.
(5)
Disbanding of Joint Task Force
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall—
(A)
upon establishment of the Joint Task Force pursuant to paragraph (1), report to the appropriate congressional committees the criteria to be applied by the Secretary before making a determination to disband such Joint Task Force; and
(B)
not later than 15 days prior to disbanding such Joint Task Force, submit to such committees a justification relating thereto.
(6)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the committees specified in subparagraph (F) of section 708(b)(6) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.
(b)
Transnational criminal organization border screening strategy
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue a strategy to improve the effectiveness of the screening of vehicles, persons, and cargo at land ports of entry that may be at higher risk of being related to transnational criminal organization activity. Upon issuance of such strategy, the Secretary shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate regarding such strategy.
(c)
Integrated border intelligence analytical cell
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish within the National Targeting Center of U.S. Customs and Border Protection an integrated border intelligence analytical cell focused on sharing information regarding potential concentrated surges of migrants arriving at the land borders of the United States, and smuggling or trafficking that may pose a border security, homeland security, or other threat to the land borders of the United States. Such cell shall integrate intelligence capabilities from across the Department of Homeland Security to carry out the following:
(1)
Develop intelligence products to improve the Department’s ability to track, prepare for, and manage in a humane and effective manner concentrated surges of migrants arriving along the land border of the United States.
(2)
Report on transnational criminal organizations exploiting migrating populations and migration routes to smuggle or traffic fentanyl or other illicit goods across the land border of the United States.
(3)
Support Federal efforts to dismantle or disrupt smuggling and trafficking routes along the land border of the United States.
(4)
Report on information circulated by transnational criminal organizations and other malicious actors to encourage illicit migrant travel to the United States.
(5)
Develop other related intelligence products that support the Department’s border security operations.
(d)
Strengthening cross-Border partnerships
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall expand partnership efforts with law enforcement entities in Canada, Mexico, countries in Central America and South America, and other appropriate countries to combat smuggling and trafficking of people, fentanyl, fentanyl chemical precursors, or related equipment and material within such countries, including through the following:
(1)
Expansion of transnational criminal investigative units to identify, disrupt, dismantle, and prosecute transnational criminal organization activity.
(2)
Participation in the Bilateral Human Trafficking Enforcement Initiative by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of Justice with their Mexican law enforcement counterparts.
(3)
Expansion of advanced training programs for investigators and prosecutors from Canada, Mexico, countries in Central America and South America, and other appropriate countries.
(4)
Increase of capacity-building efforts to support international partners in improving the ability of such partners to detect and interdict fentanyl, fentanyl chemical precursors, and related equipment and material originating from or transiting through their territories.
(e)
Fentanyl interdiction and supply chain disruption
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall seek to strengthen intelligence sharing operations with Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial agencies involved in prevention, detection, and interdiction of fentanyl, fentanyl chemical precursors, and other related equipment and material to enhance efforts to disrupt and dismantle supply chains for such illicit drugs and equipment and material.
