1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preservation and Reinvestment Initiative for Community Enhancement Act
or the
PRICE Act
.
2.
Manufactured housing community improvement grant program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Community development financial institution
The term
community development financial institution
has the meaning given the term in section 103 of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (
12 U.S.C. 4702
).
(2)
Eligible manufactured home community
The term
eligible manufactured home community
means a manufactured home community that—
(A)
is affordable to low- and moderate-income persons; and
(B)
(i)
is owned by the residents of the manufactured home community through a resident-controlled entity such as a resident-owned cooperative, as defined by the Secretary; or
(ii)
will be maintained as such a community, and remain affordable for low- and moderate-income persons, to the maximum extent practicable and for the longest period feasible.
(3)
Eligible recipient
The term
eligible recipient
means—
(A)
an eligible manufactured home community;
(B)
a unit of general local government, including a housing authority;
(C)
a resident-owned community;
(D)
a resident-owned cooperative;
(E)
a nonprofit entity with housing expertise or a consortia of such entities;
(F)
a community development financial institution;
(G)
an Indian Tribe or tribally designated housing entity; or
(H)
any other entity approved by the Secretary working with an eligible manufactured home community.
(4)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given the term
Indian tribe
in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (
25 U.S.C. 4103
).
(5)
Low- and moderate-income persons; unit of general local government
The terms
low- and moderate-income persons
and
unit of general local government
have the meanings given those terms in section 102(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5302(a)
).
(6)
Manufactured home community
The term
manufactured home community
means any community, court, or park equipped to accommodate manufactured homes for which pad sites, with or without existing manufactured homes or other allowed homes, or other suitable sites, are used primarily for residential purposes, with any additional requirements as determined by the Secretary, including any manufactured housing community as such term is used for purposes of the program of the Federal National Mortgage Association for multifamily loans for manufactured housing communities and the program of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation for loans for manufactured housing communities.
(7)
Resiliency activities
The term
resiliency activities
means the reconstruction, repair, or replacement of manufactured housing and manufactured home communities to protect the health and safety of manufactured housing residents and to address weatherization and energy efficiency needs.
(8)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary shall carry out a competitive grant program to award funds to eligible recipients to carry out eligible projects for improvements in eligible manufactured home communities.
(c)
Eligible projects
(1)
In general
Amounts from grants under this section—
(A)
shall be used to assist in carrying out a project for construction, reconstruction, repair, or clearance of housing, facilities and improvements in or serving a manufactured home community that is necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of the manufactured home community and the long-term sustainability of the community; and
(B)
may be used for infrastructure, planning, resident and community services (including relocation assistance, eviction prevention, and down payment assistance), resiliency activities, replacement of outdated homes, and assistance for manufactured housing land and site acquisition.
(2)
Replacement
For purposes of paragraph (1), with respect to manufactured housing that was built before 1976, amounts from grants under this section may be used only for replacement of that housing.
(d)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize applicants that will carry out activities that primarily benefit low- or moderately low-income residents and preserve long-term housing affordability for residents of manufactured home communities.
(e)
Waivers
The Secretary may waive or specify alternative requirements for any provision of law or regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with use of amounts made available under this section other than requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment, upon a finding that the waiver or alternative requirement is not inconsistent with the overall purposes of such Act and that the waiver or alternative requirement is necessary to facilitate the use of amounts made available under this section.
(f)
Implementation
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall have authority to issue such regulations, notices, or other guidance, forms, instructions, and publications to carry out the programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are completed in a timely and effective manner.
(2)
Fund
The Secretary may establish a separate fund to award grants under this section to Indian Tribes.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
