1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Data for a Secured Border Act
.
2.
Matters relating to border security
(a)
Border security metrics
(1)
Annual reports
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Executive Director of the Office of Homeland Security Statistics, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate an annual report that—
(A)
assesses the usefulness of the border security metrics described in section 1092 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
6 U.S.C. 223
) that are utilized in preparing the reports required under such section; and
(B)
makes recommendations for any updates to such border security metrics.
(2)
Timing
Each report under this subsection shall be submitted at the same time as each report required under such section 1092.
(b)
Joint capabilities
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in cooperation and collaboration with the Under Secretary for Management of the Department of Homeland Security and the Deputy’s Management Action Group (DMAG) of the Department, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that includes the following:
(1)
An assessment of the workforce, authorities, and responsibilities of the Joint Requirements Council (JRC) of the Department.
(2)
A determination regarding whether the JRC is meeting its intent, including whether the JRC implements a joint requirements process or any additional responsibility that the Secretary has assigned to it, including relating to the following:
(A)
The validation of any evaluation, as appropriate, by a component, support component, or office, of the Department that—
(i)
identifies any capability gaps, redundancies, or overlaps; and
(ii)
provides recommendations for either materiel or nonmateriel solutions to address any such capability gap, redundancy, or overlap.
(B)
The submission of such validation to department leadership for consideration in investment decisions.
(3)
An identification of the position within the Department responsible for implementing a joint requirements process that validates an evaluation by a component of the Department that identifies any capability gaps, redundancies, or overlaps pursuant to paragraph (2)(A).
(4)
An identification of the officer or official of the Department who oversees the JRC’s activities and responsibilities, including the JRC’s reporting responsibilities to the DMAG.
(5)
A description of how the JRC is assisting the Department’s efforts in performing border security-related missions and assisting incorporation of technological advances into border management based on available resources, such as the flow of fentanyl across the border and the backlog of migrant processing.
(6)
A review of the progress of the Department’s engagement with the JRC to carry out the following:
(A)
Review the JRC’s recommendations.
(B)
Approve or direct related follow-on activities.
(C)
Provide direction and guidance to the JRC.
(7)
A review of the JRC’s recommendations, the approval and direct related follow-on activities, and the direction and guidance to the JRC from the Secretary or the Secretary’s designee.
(8)
A description of how Department senior leadership makes use of JRC analyses and associated products.
(9)
An evaluation of the placement of the JRC within the Management Directorate of the Department to ensure such placement aligns fully with the JRC’s mission and maintains the JRC’s independence.
(10)
An evaluation of the role of the JRC and broader Department internal communications of needs and requirements, and how the processes for communicating and documenting such needs and requirements can be improved at the Department.
(c)
Other administrative needs
The reports required under subsections (a) and (b) shall also be submitted to the following:
(1)
Homeland Security Investigations of U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, with any illicit drug highlights.
(2)
The Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), with any illicit drug highlights.
(3)
The Drug Enforcement Administration, with any illicit drug highlights.
(4)
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, with any migrant crossing surges that would cross the threshold into emergency situations.
(5)
The Department of Justice, including law enforcement agencies of the Department, regarding such Department’s and agencies’ related border metrics.
(d)
Definition
The terms
Joint Requirements Council
and
JRC
include any successor entity.
