1.
Military training and competency database
(a)
Establishment of database
(1)
Establishment
The Secretary of Defense shall establish—
(A)
a centralized database, to be known as the
Military Training and Competency Database
(referred to in this section as the
Database
), to record and maintain information relating to training performed by members of the Armed Forces; and
(B)
a process to make the information in the database available to States and potential employers to assist in determining if the training provided to a member or former member of the Armed Forces satisfies civilian licensing and certification requirements.
(2)
Contents
The Database shall include following information for each member of the Armed Forces:
(A)
Name, rank, and military service identification number.
(B)
Branch of service and specialty.
(C)
Details of completed training courses, certifications, and qualifications.
(D)
Any other information the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Availability of information
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a process to make the information contained in the Database available to States and other employers upon request to assist such States and employers in verifying whether the training and qualifications of a member or former member of the Armed Forces satisfies relevant civilian licensing or certification requirements.
(4)
Security and accessibility
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Database is secure, easily accessible, and regularly updated to reflect the training and qualifications acquired by members of the Armed Forces.
(b)
Competency reports
(1)
In general
Based on the information in the Database the Secretary of Defense shall provide to each member of the Armed Forces a document that outlines the training and qualifications acquired by a member while serving in the Armed Forces. Such document shall be known as a
competency report
.
(2)
Format and contents
The Secretary of Defense shall develop a standardized format for competency reports, which shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(A)
Relevant personal details about the member.
(B)
Description of training courses, certifications, and qualifications obtained.
(C)
Date and duration of each completed training.
(D)
Authorized signatures and other necessary authentication.
(3)
Availability
Competency reports shall be provided to members of the Armed Forces upon their separation or retirement from the Armed Forces.
(c)
Implementation
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish the necessary regulations, procedures, and timelines for the implementation of this section.
(2)
Resources
The Secretary of Defense shall allocate sufficient resources to ensure the effective establishment, maintenance, and accessibility of the Database and the development and distribution of competency reports to members of the Armed Forces.
(d)
Report to Congress
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the implementation and effectiveness of the Database and any recommendations of the Secretary for improving the Database. The report shall include feedback and recommendations from States and other employers regarding the usability and accuracy of the Database and the competency reports described in subsection (b).
(e)
Congressional defense committees defined
In this Act, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
