1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Mosquito Abatement for Safety and Health 2.0 Act
or the
SMASH 2.0 Act
.
2.
Reauthorization of Mosquito Abatement for Safety and Health program
Section 317S of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247b–21
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(3)(A), by striking
subsection (b)(3)
and inserting
subsection (b)(4)
;
(2)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6) as paragraphs (4) through (7), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
(3)
Considerations
The Secretary may consider the use of innovative and novel technology for mosquito prevention and control in making grants under paragraph (1).
;
(3)
by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
(d)
Uses of funds
(1)
Technical assistance
Amounts appropriated under subsection (f) may be used by the Secretary to provide training and technical assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of assessments and plans under subsection (a) and control programs under subsection (b). The Secretary may provide such training and technical assistance directly or through awards of grants or contracts to public and private entities.
(2)
Education
A recipient of an award under subsection (a) or (b) may use up to 5 percent of the total amount provided for each fiscal year to provide continuing education and training for individuals carrying out activities pursuant to such award, including training and support for any applicable public health entomologists.
;
(4)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023
and inserting
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028
;
(5)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
(6)
inserting after subsection (d), the following:
(e)
Coordination with strategic national stockpile
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, may prepare the Strategic National Stockpile (as defined in section 319F–2) for stockpiling an emergency supply of nonperishable vector-borne disease control products. The Secretary shall incorporate into the national strategy on vector-borne diseases (as defined in section 317U) a strategy on how the department will prepare for emergency stockpiling for vector and vector-borne disease control products, including how it will work with manufacturers to ensure timely purchase of control products.
.
