1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 Technical Corrections Act of 2024
.
2.
Modification of program of benefits paid by Federal Government for survivors of District of Columbia police officers, firefighters, and teachers
(a)
Coverage of surviving domestic partners under same terms and conditions for benefits paid under District of Columbia Retirement Programs
Section 11012 of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (sec. 1–803.02, D.C. Official Code) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Coverage of domestic partners
(1)
Coverage
For purposes of subsection (a), the determination of the entitlement of an individual to a benefit payment under a District Retirement Program shall be made as if the amendments made by section 32 of the Omnibus Domestic Partnership Equality Amendment Act of 2008 (D.C. Law 17–231) and the amendments made by section 2 of the Teachers, Police, and Firefighters Retirement Benefits Amendment Act of 2018 (D.C. Law 22–215) had taken effect prior to the freeze date.
(2)
Exclusion of unrelated provisions
Paragraph (1) does not apply to the amendments made by subsections (b) and (e) of section 2 of the Teachers, Police, and Firefighters Retirement Benefits Amendment Act of 2018.
.
(b)
Application of same age limit for termination of benefits by reason of remarriage under Federal employee retirement programs
(1)
Individuals covered by District Retirement Program
Section 11012 of such Act (sec. 1–803.02, D.C. Official Code), as amended by subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Application of age limit under Federal employee retirement programs for termination of survivor benefit by reason of remarriage
(1)
Limitation on termination of benefit on grounds of remarriage
Except as provided in paragraph (2), for purposes of subsection (a), the entitlement of an individual to a benefit payment under a District Retirement Program shall be determined as if, prior to the freeze date, the entitlement to the benefit payment under the Program did not terminate by reason of the remarriage of the individual.
(2)
Exception for survivors remarried before becoming 55 years of age
Paragraph (1) does not apply if the individual remarried before becoming 55 years of age, unless the individual was married for at least 30 years to the individual on whose service the benefit payment is based.
.
(2)
Special rule for survivors of judges
Section 11–1568(c), District of Columbia Official Code, is amended in the matter following paragraph (3) by striking
fifty-five years of age
and inserting
fifty-five years of age, unless the widow or widower was married to the judge for at least 30 years
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 11003(6) of such Act (sec. 1–801.02(6), D.C. Official Code) is amended by striking
section 11012(e) and (f)
and inserting
section 11012(e), (f), (g), and (h)
.
3.
Annuity deposit for certain service under District of Columbia retirement system
Section 1905(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
;
5 U.S.C. 8332
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (3), by striking
Qualifying
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (4), qualifying
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Service deposit
(A)
Notwithstanding paragraph (3), the qualifying District of Columbia service of any individual who makes a deposit under this paragraph shall be taken into account for purposes of computing the amount of any benefit payable out of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund under section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.
(B)
Any individual—
(i)
who, pursuant to this section, has qualifying District of Columbia service included in calculating the individual’s creditable service under section 8332, of title 5, United States Code, may deposit an amount equal to the product of the basic pay received for that qualifying service multiplied by the applicable percentage, or percentages, in section 8334(c) of such title, plus interest (computed in accordance with section 8334(e) of such title); or
(ii)
who, pursuant to this section, has qualifying District of Columbia service included in calculating the individual’s creditable service under section 8411 of such title may deposit an amount equal to 1.3 percent of basic pay received for that qualifying service, plus interest (computed in accordance with section 8334(e) of such title).
(C)
For the purpose of survivor annuities, deposits authorized by this paragraph may be made by a survivor of an individual described in subparagraph (B)(i) or (B)(ii).
(D)
Any deposit made under this paragraph shall be credited to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(E)
The Office of Personnel Management shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this paragraph.
.
