1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Firefighter Investments to Recognize Exposure to Cancer Act of 2023
or the
FIRE Cancer Act of 2023
.
2.
Cancer prevention programs for firefighters
(a)
In general
Section 33 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (
15 U.S.C. 2229
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(3)—
(A)
by redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (N) as subparagraphs (G) through (O), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
(F)
To establish cancer prevention programs for firefighting personnel, including providing multi-cancer early detection testing or other forms of preventative tests.
;
(2)
in subsection (i), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Maximum amount for certain cancer tests
Not more than $1,750 from available grant funds under subsection (c)(3)(F) may be obligated and expended for each multi-cancer early detection test or other form of preventative test.
;
(3)
in subsection (q), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Cancer prevention programs
There is authorized to be appropriated $700,000,000 for grants under subsection (c)(3)(F).
;
(4)
by redesignating subsection (r) as subsection (s); and
(5)
by inserting after subsection (q) the following new subsection:
(r)
Cancer research
The Administrator of FEMA and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall jointly establish a voluntary program through which firefighting personnel may share with the Centers results of multi-cancer early detection testing or other forms of preventative tests in order to identify any trends or causes of cancer in such personnel. Any such results shall be shared in an anonymized, de-identified manner that safeguards the personally identifiable information of such personnel in order to prevent attribution to any such personnel of any such shared results.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
Paragraph (1) of section 33(i) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (
15 U.S.C. 2229(i)
) is amended by striking
described in subsection (c)(3)(F)
and inserting
described in subsection (c)(3)(G)
.
