1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
October 7 Remembrance Education Act
.
2.
Curriculum for the study of antisemitism surrounding and leading up to Hamas’ October 7, 2023, terrorist attacks against Israel
(a)
Curriculum development
Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (referred to in this Act as the
Director
) shall develop a curriculum for the study of Hamas’ October 7, 2023, terrorist attacks against Israel, for use in secondary schools. Such curriculum shall include information on—
(1)
the heinous and brutal attacks committed against Israel by Hamas on October 7, 2023;
(2)
the history of antisemitism and how it played a role in such attacks;
(3)
how antisemitism and anti-Israel rhetoric spread throughout the United States and on campuses of institutions of higher education following such attacks;
(4)
how social media accelerated the spread of antisemitism and anti-Israel rhetoric following such attacks; and
(5)
denial and distortion as a form of antisemitism in the wake of such attacks.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Following the completion of the curriculum development under subsection (a), the Director shall prepare and submit to Congress a report on the curriculum described in subsection (a).
(2)
Deadline for submission
The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted not later than the earlier of—
(A)
180 days after the completion of the curriculum development under subsection (a); or
(B)
3 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Antisemitism
The term
antisemitism
has the meaning given the working definition of antisemitism adopted by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance on May 26, 2016, including the contemporary examples of antisemitism cited by the Alliance.
(2)
ESEA terms
The terms
local educational agency
,
secondary school
, and
State
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
Hamas’ October 7, 2023, terrorist attacks against Israel
The term
Hamas’ October 7, 2023, terrorist attacks against Israel
refers to the surprise land, sea, and air attacks against Israel led by the Palestinian Sunni Islamist group Hamas (a United States-designated foreign terrorist organization) from the Gaza Strip on October 7, 2023 (the Jewish holiday Simchat Torah and 50 years after the 1973 Yom Kippur War), in which Hamas brutally murdered, decapitated, burned alive, and raped over 1,200 men, women, children, and elderly, and kidnapped over 240 people, including Americans.
