1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Last Servicemember Standing Medal Act
.
2.
Authorization for Last Servicemember Standing medal
(a)
Authorization
Chapter 57
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating sections 1135 and 1136 as sections 1136 and section 1137, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after section 1134 the following new section:
1135.
Last Servicemember Standing medal
(a)
Medal authorized
The Secretary concerned may issue a service medal, to be known as the
Last Servicemember Standing medal
, to persons eligible under subsection (c).
(b)
Design
The Last Servicemember Standing medal shall be of an appropriate design approved by the Secretary of Defense, with ribbons, lapel pins, and other appurtenances.
(c)
Eligible persons
Subject to subsection (d), a person eligible to be issued the Last Servicemember Standing medal is any member who—
(1)
served on active duty;
(2)
was deployed during war or overseas contingency operation;
(3)
as a result of a combat instance during such war or overseas contingency, was the last surviving member of a unit;
(4)
demonstrated extraordinary heroism in defense of the United States during such combat instance; and
(5)
whose character is recommended for recognition by their commanding officer and at least two peers.
(d)
One medal authorized
Not more than one Last Servicemember Standing medal may be issued to any person.
(e)
Issuance to next-of-Kin
If a person described in subsection (c) is deceased, the Secretary concerned may provide for issuance of the Last Servicemember Standing medal to the next-of-kin of the person.
(f)
Regulations
The issuance of a Last Servicemember Standing medal shall be subject to such regulations as the Secretaries concerned shall prescribe for purposes of this section. The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that any regulations prescribed under this subsection are uniform to the extent practicable.
.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should take appropriate actions to expedite—
(1)
the design of the Last Servicemember Standing medal provided for by section 1136 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a); and
(2)
the establishment and implementation of mechanisms to facilitate the issuance of the Last Servicemember Standing Medal to persons eligible for the issuance of the medal under such section.
