1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clarifying E–Rate Act of 2024
.
2.
Telecommunications services for certain providers
(a)
School buses and other locations where learning occurs
Section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 254
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(6), by striking
and classrooms
and inserting
(including classrooms associated with such schools, buses associated with such schools (if owned, leased, or contracted by a school and used primarily to transport students to and from such school or activities related to such school), and other locations where learning occurs as determined appropriate by the Commission)
;
(2)
in subsection (h)(1)(B), by inserting
(including, with respect to schools, to classrooms associated with such schools, buses associated with such schools (if owned, leased, or contracted by a school and used primarily to transport students to and from such school or activities related to such school), and other locations where learning occurs as determined appropriate by the Commission)
after
educational purposes
; and
(3)
in subsection (h)(2)(A), by striking
school classrooms
and inserting
schools (including classrooms associated with such schools, buses associated with such schools (if owned, leased, or contracted by a school and used primarily to transport students to and from such school or activities related to such school), and other locations where learning occurs as determined appropriate by the Commission)
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to amounts made available for funding year 2025 and each funding year thereafter.
(c)
Rule of construction
The amendments made by subsection (a) may not be construed to affect the authority of the Federal Communications Commission with respect to the Declaratory Ruling in the matter of Modernizing the E–Rate Program for Schools and Libraries adopted by the Commission on October 19, 2023 (FCC 23–84; WC Docket No. 13–184).
(d)
Determinations
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications Commission shall promulgate a notice of proposed rulemaking to—
(1)
specify, if any, additional locations where learning occurs that the Commission determines appropriate for purposes of subsections (b)(6), (h)(1)(B), and (h)(2)(A) of section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 254
), as amended by this Act; and
(2)
establish an annual assessment process for determining if further modifications are necessary with respect to such additional locations.
