1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Guard and Reserve Student Loan Fairness Act
.
2.
Special rule for members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces performing certain duty
Section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1087e(m)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Special rule for a member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces performing certain duty
(A)
Calculation of qualifying payments based on months served
With respect to a borrower who is a member of a reserve component of an Armed Force, the Secretary shall deem a month of covered duty (as calculated under subparagraph (B)) to be a month for which a qualifying payment was made under paragraph (1) if—
(i)
except as provided in subparagraph (D)(ii), for each month of such covered duty (as so calculated), during the year in which such month occurred, the borrower made a corresponding monthly payment on an eligible Federal Direct Loan; and
(ii)
such corresponding monthly payment—
(I)
met the requirements of paragraph (1); or
(II)
in the case of a borrower not employed full-time in a public service job at the time the payment was made, such payment would have met the requirements of paragraph (1) had the borrower been employed full-time in a public service job at the time of such payment.
(B)
Calculation of months of covered duty
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the number of months that a borrower described in subparagraph (A) shall be considered to have performed covered duty in a year for purposes of subparagraph (A) shall be equal to—
(i)
the number days the member performed covered duty in such year, divided by
(ii)
twenty; and
(iii)
rounded to the nearest whole number.
(C)
Minimum period
A borrower described in subparagraph (A) who performed covered duty for a total period of less than 10 days in a year may not receive credit for a qualifying monthly payment under this paragraph.
(D)
No annual cap on number of qualifying payments credited to a borrower
(i)
In general
A borrower described in subparagraph (A) may receive credit for more than 12 qualifying monthly payments in a year if each such payment qualifies to be counted under this paragraph or paragraph (1).
(ii)
Exception to requirement for corresponding monthly payment
The requirement for a borrower to make a corresponding payment for each month credited as qualifying payment under this paragraph, as described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A), shall not apply to any qualifying payment in excess of the twelfth payment credited to a borrower for a year.
(E)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
The term
covered duty
means any Federal or State duty (including inactive duty training, active duty training, and active duty) performed by a member of a reserve component of an Armed Force, except such term does not include active duty for a period of more than 30 days.
(ii)
The terms
Armed Force
and
active duty for a period of more than 30 days
have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
.
