1-101. Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States which is not a banking institution and is on the effective date in possession or control of funds or securities of Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such funds or securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

1-102. (a) All licenses and authorizations for acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, by court order, attachment, or otherwise, including the license contained in Section 535.504 of the Iranian Assets Control Regulations, with respect to the properties described in Section 1-101 of this Order are revoked and withdrawn.

(b) All rights, powers, and privileges relating to the properties described in section 1-101 of this Order and which derive from any attachment, injunction, other like proceedings or process, or other action in any litigation after November 14, 1979, at 8:10 a.m. EST, including those derived from Section 535.504 of the Iranian Assets Control Regulations, other than rights, powers, and privileges of the Government of Iran and its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, whether acquired by court order or otherwise, are nullified, and all persons claiming any such right, power, or privilege are hereafter barred from exercising the same.

(c) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are prohibited from acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privilege, whether by court order or otherwise, with respect to the properties (and any income earned thereon) referred to in Section 1-101 of this Order.

1-103. Compliance with this Executive Order, any other Executive Order licensing, authorizing, directing or compelling the transfer of the assets described in paragraph 1-101 of this Order, or any regulations, instructions, or directions issued thereunder shall to the extent thereof be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the same. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, such orders, regulations, instructions, or directions.

1-104. The Attorney General shall seek to intervene in any litigation within the United States which arises out of this Order and shall, among other things, defend the legality of and all actions taken pursuant to, each of its provisions.

1-105. The Secretary of the Treasury is delegated and authorized to exercise all functions vested in the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to carry out the purposes of this Order.

1-106. This Order shall be effective immediately.
