1.
Total outlays for any fiscal
year shall not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year, unless three-fifths
of the whole number of each House of Congress shall provide by law for a
specific excess of outlays over receipts by a roll call vote.
2.
Prior to each fiscal year, the
President shall transmit to the Congress a proposed budget for the United
States Government for that fiscal year in which total outlays do not exceed
total receipts.
3.
Sections 1 and 2 of this
Article shall not apply during any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is
in effect or in which the United States is engaged in military conflict which
causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so
declared by a joint resolution, adopted by a majority of the whole number of
each House, which becomes law.
4.
The Congress shall enforce and
implement this article by appropriate legislation, which may rely on estimates
of outlays and receipts.
5.
Except as provided in the
second clause, total receipts shall include all receipts of the United States
Government other than those derived from borrowing, and total outlays shall
include all outlays of the United States Government other than those for
repayment of debt principal.
The receipts
(including attributable interest) and outlays of the Federal Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund,
or any fund that is a successor to either such fund, shall not be considered to
be receipts or outlays for purposes of this article.
6.
Congress shall not pass any
bill that provides a net reduction in individual income taxes for those with
incomes over $1,000,000 (as may be adjusted by Congress to account for
inflation) if, after enactment, total outlays would exceed total receipts in
any fiscal year affected by the bill.
7.
No court of the United States
or of any State shall enforce this article by ordering any reduction in the
Social Security benefits authorized by law, including any benefits provided
from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal
Disability Insurance Trust Fund, or any fund that is a successor to either such
fund.
8.
This article shall take effect
beginning with the fifth fiscal year beginning after its
ratification.
.
