2.
The chair of the Committee on the Budget may insert in the Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the first session of the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of the motion specified in the first section of this resolution.
3.
In the engrossment of the House amendment to the Senate amendment to House Joint Resolution 59, the Clerk may conform division, title, and section numbers and conform cross-references and provisions for short titles.
4.
The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in the Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the first session of the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of defense authorization measures for the fiscal year 2014.
5.
It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of December 12, 2013, or December 13, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
6.
On any legislative day of the first session of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress after December 13, 2013—
(a)
the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved; and
(b)
the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
7.
On any legislative day of the second session of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress before January 7, 2014—
(a)
the Speaker may dispense with organizational and legislative business;
(b)
the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved if applicable; and
(c)
the Chair at any time may declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
8.
The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by sections 6 and 7 as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
9.
Each day during the period addressed by sections 6 and 7 of this resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1546
).
10.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3695) to provide a temporary extension of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 and amendments made by that Act, as previously extended and amended and with certain additional modifications and exceptions, to suspend permanent price support authorities, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
11.
The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the legislative day of December 13, 2013.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
