2.
If the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution is not adopted, the Committee shall rise and report that it has come to no resolution on the bill. If the amendment in the nature of a substitute is adopted, the amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment. No further amendment shall be in order except the amendments printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules. At the conclusion of consideration of the amendments printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules, the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill, to the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules, or to amendment number 1 printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
3.
Each amendment printed in part B and part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment (except as specified in the report), and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived.
4.
In the engrossment of H.R. 152, the Clerk shall—
(a)
add the text of H.R. 219, as passed by the House, as new matter at the end of H.R. 152;
(b)
conform the title of H.R. 152 to reflect the addition of the text of H.R. 219, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
(c)
assign appropriate designations to provisions within the engrossment;
(d)
conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within the engrossment.
Karen L. Haas,
Clerk.
