Executive Order
 
 

GENERAL ORDER.

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 

,

 .

Under instructions from the President of  , the Secretary of War with unfeigned sorrow announces to the   the decease of the Hon.  ,  , which occurred in this city at an early hour this morning.

An enlightened statesman and a distinguished and able member of   has thus been stricken down at his post. The nation will mourn the afflicting dispensation which has left so great a void in its councils. A worthy and estimable citizen has been removed from the circle of his numerous friends. Society will mingle its grief with the patriotic regrets which the loss of a statesman will not fail to call forth.

While the President, with the surviving members of the  , the legislative and judicial departments of the  , will unite in every testimonial the sad occasion demands, it is fitting a similar respect should be shown to the memory of the distinguished deceased by the national arms of defense. Accordingly, half-hour guns will be fired from sunrise to sunset at every garrisoned military post   succeeding the receipt of this order, the national flag will be displayed at half-staff during the same time, and officers of the   will wear for   the proper badge of military mourning.

  and its bureaus will be closed until   succeeding the funeral obsequies.

 ,

Secretary of War.

General Order.

 ,

 .

The Secretary of the  , by the direction of the President, announces to the   and to   the lamented death of the Hon.  ,   of  . He died at his residence in the city of   on  .

As a mark of respect to his high character, his eminent position, and great public services, it is directed that on   after the receipt of this order by the different navy-yards and stations and vessels of war of   in commission the flags be hoisted at half-mast from sunrise to sunset and that seventeen minute guns be fired at noon.

Officers of the   and   will wear crape on the left arm for  .

  will be draped in mourning and will be closed until after the funeral.

ISAAC TOUCEY,

Secretary of the  

.
