1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Providing Opportunities to Work for Energy Reliability Act
or the
POWER Act
.
2.
Review of decisions of North American Electric Reliability Corporation affecting cost allocation
under system support resources agreements
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824d
) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
(g)
Review of decisions of North American Electric Reliability Corporation affecting cost allocation
under system support resources agreements
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
System support resources agreement
(i)
In general
The term
system support resources agreement
means an agreement between the owner of a system support resources unit and a transmission
organization that provides for—
(I)
operation of the system support resources unit for a period past the date on which the owner of the
system support resources unit proposes to suspend the operation of, or
retire, the system support resources unit;
(II)
the payments to be made to the owner of the system support resources unit for the continued
operation; and
(III)
the manner in which the costs for the continued operation will be recovered.
(ii)
Inclusions
The term
system support resources agreement
includes the associated rate schedule, or any other allocation of costs, for an agreement
described in clause (i).
(B)
System support resources unit
The term
system support resources unit
means a generating unit that has been designated by a transmission organization as a system
support resources unit on—
(i)
an application to the transmission organization by the owner of the unit to retire or suspend
operation of the unit; and
(ii)
a determination by the transmission organization that the operation of the unit is necessary to
operate the transmission system consistent with applicable reliability
standards.
(C)
Transmission organization
The term
transmission organization
has the meaning given the term in section 215(a).
(2)
Review by commission
(A)
In general
The Commission shall review any decision by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation to
approve a new balancing authority that would alter cost allocations under
an existing system support resources agreement.
(B)
Suspension of effectiveness
The new balancing authority described in subparagraph (A) shall not take effect until approved by
the Commission.
(3)
Cost-benefit analysis
Prior to issuing a decision under paragraph (4), the Commission shall publish a cost-benefit
analysis of the proposed decision described in paragraph (2)(A), including
the likely financial impact of the decision on ratepayers.
(4)
Decision by commission
(A)
In general
The Commission shall—
(i)
review a decision of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation described in paragraph
(2)(A); and
(ii)
issue a decision that approves, disapproves, or modifies the decision of the North American
Electric Reliability Corporation.
(B)
Disapproval
The Commission shall disapprove a decision of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation
described in paragraph (2)(A) if the Commission determines that the
decision would result in unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or
otherwise unlawful rates for ratepayers.
.
