1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Certain
non-Federal lands adjacent to the Cibola National Wildlife Refuge in La Paz
County, Arizona, are desirable for Federal acquisition to protect important
riparian areas and migratory bird and other wildlife habitat.
(2)
The location of
certain Bureau of Land Management inholdings in Riverside County, California,
renders the land essentially useful only for farming and, therefore, of limited
use and enjoyment potential for the general public.
(3)
These Bureau of Land Management
in­hold­ings are appropriate for transfer to private ownership in exchange for
lands that will have higher public use values.
(4)
The acquisition of the non-Federal lands
adjacent to the Cibola National Wildlife Refuge will greatly increase
management efficiency of the refuge and promote public access, use, and
enjoyment of the refuge.
2.
Land exchange,
Cibola National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, and Bureau of Land Management land in
Riverside County, California
(a)
Conveyance of
bureau of land management land
In exchange for the land described in
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to River Bottom
Farms of La Paz County, Arizona, all right, title and interest of the United
States in and to certain Federal land administered by the Secretary through the
Bureau of Land Management consisting of a total of approximately 80 acres, and
more specifically described as Lot 4 of Section 24, Township 8 South, Range 22
East, San Bernardino Meridian, Riverside County, California. The conveyed land
shall be subject to valid existing rights, including easements, rights-of-way,
utility lines, and any other valid encumbrances on the land as of the date of
the conveyance under this section.
(b)
Consideration
As consideration for the conveyance of the
Federal land under subsection (a), River Bottom Farms shall convey to the
United States all right, title, and interest of River Bottom Farms in and to
two parcels of land contiguous to the Cibola National Wildlife Refuge in La Paz
County, Arizona, consisting of a total of approximately 40 acres and more
specifically described as follows:
(1)
The W½NW¼SE¼ of fractional Section 7,
Township 1 South, Range 23 West, Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian, La Paz
County, Arizona, which is also known as parcel number 301–05–005B–9.
(2)
The W½SW¼NE¼ of such Section 7, which is
also known as parcel number 301–05–008–0.
(c)
Equal value
exchange
The values of the
Federal land and non-Federal land to be exchanged under this section shall be
equal or equalized by the payment of cash to the Secretary or River Bottom
Farms, as appropriate, pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy
Management Act (
43 U.S.C. 1716(b)
). The value of the land shall be determined
by the Secretary through an appraisal performed by a qualified appraiser
mutually agreed to by the Secretary and River Bottom Farms and performed in
conformance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions
(U.S. Department of Justice, December 2000).
(d)
Exchange
timetable
The Secretary shall complete the land exchange under
this section not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, unless the Secretary and River Bottom Farms mutually agree to extend such
deadline.
(e)
Administration
of acquired land
The land acquired by the Secretary under
subsection (b) shall become part of the Cibola National Wildlife Refuge and be
administered in accordance with the laws and regulations generally applicable
to the National Wildlife Refuge System.
