1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
YES to Cures Act of 2014
.
2.
Funding research by emerging scientists through Common Fund
(a)
Use of funds
Section 402(b)(7)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 282
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (i) the following:
(ii)
shall, with respect to funds reserved under section 402A(c)(1)(C) for the Common Fund, allocate
such funds to the national research institutes and national centers for
conducting and supporting research that is identified under subparagraph
(A) and is carried out by one or more emerging scientists (as defined in
section 402A(c)(1)(C)(iv)); and
.
(b)
Reservation of funds
Section 402A(c)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 282a(c)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
Additional reservation for research by emerging scientists
(i)
Inapplicability of tap for evaluation activities
Beginning with fiscal year 2015, funds appropriated to the National Institutes of Health shall not
be subject to section 241.
(ii)
Reservation
In addition to the amounts reserved for the Common Fund under subparagraph (B) and amounts
appropriated to the Common Fund under subsection (a)(2), the Director of
NIH shall reserve an amount for the Common Fund for fiscal year 2015 and
each subsequent fiscal year that is equal to the amount that, but for
clause (i), would be made available under section 241 for evaluation
activities for such fiscal year.
(iii)
Purpose of reservation
Amounts reserved under clause (ii) shall be used for the purpose of carrying out section
402(b)(7)(B)(ii) (relating to the conduct and support of research that is
identified under section 402A(b)(7)(A) and is carried out by one or more
emerging scientists).
(iv)
Definition
In this subparagraph, the term
emerging scientist
means an investigator who—
(I)
will be the principal investigator or the program director of the proposed research;
(II)
has never been awarded, or has been awarded only once, a substantial, competing grant by the
National Institutes of Health for independent research; and
(III)
is within 15 years of having completed—
(aa)
the investigator’s terminal degree; or
(bb)
a medical residency (or the equivalent).
.
(c)
Supplement, not supplant; prohibition against transfer
Funds reserved pursuant to section 402A(c)(1)(C) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
subsection (b)—
(1)
shall be used to supplement, not supplant, the funds otherwise allocated by the National Institutes
of Health for young investigators; and
(2)
notwithstanding any transfer authority in any appropriation Act, shall not be used for any purpose
other than allocating funds as described in section 402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of
the Public Health Service Act, as added by subsection (a).
(d)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 241(a) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 238j(a)
) is amended by striking
Such portion
and inserting
Subject to section 402A(c)(1)(C)(i), such portion
.
(2)
Section 402A(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act is amended—
(A)
by striking
402(b)(7)(B)(ii)
and inserting
402(b)(7)(B)(iii)
; and
(B)
by striking
reserved under subsection (c)(1)(B)(i)
and inserting
reserved under subparagraph (B)(i) or (C)(ii) of subsection (c)(1)
.
(3)
Section 3(c)(2) of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act (
Public Law 113–94
) is amended by
striking
402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by subsection (a)
and inserting
402(b)(7)(B)(iii) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by subsection (a) and redesignated by
section 2(a) of the
YES to Cures Act of 2014
.
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act (and the amendments made by this Act) is intended to affect the amount of funds
authorized to be appropriated to the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality.
3.
Report on trends in age of recipients of NIH-funded major research grants
Not later than six months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the National
Institutes of Health shall submit a report to the Congress—
(1)
explaining why, over the 30-year period preceding the enactment of this Act—
(A)
there has been a substantial increase in the age of investigators receiving their first major
research grant from the National Institutes of Health;
(B)
there has been a substantial increase in the average age of all recipients of major research grants
from the National Institutes of Health; and
(C)
there has been a dramatic drop in the number of investigators under 40 years of age receiving major
research grants from the National Institutes of Health; and
(2)
describing—
(A)
the steps taken by the National Institutes of Health in recent years to address the trends
identified in paragraph (1); and
(B)
the impact of taking such steps.
