1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Financial Institutions Regulatory Relief Act of 2014
.
2.
Certain loans included as qualified mortgages
Section 129C(b)(2) of the Truth in Lending Act (
15 U.S.C. 1639c(b)(2)
) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
(F)
Loans held on portfolio
The term
qualified mortgage
includes a residential mortgage loan made by a creditor having less than $10,000,000,000 in total
assets, so long as such loan is originated and retained in portfolio of
the creditor for the duration of the loan term.
.
3.
Exemption from escrow requirements for loans held by small creditors
Section 129D(c) of the Truth in Lending Act (
15 U.S.C. 1639d(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) and
moving such subparagraphs 2 ems to the right;
(2)
striking
The Board
and inserting the following:
(1)
In general
The Bureau
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Treatment of loans held by smaller creditors
The Bureau shall, by regulation, exempt from the requirements of subsection (a) any loan secured by
a first lien on a consumer’s principle dwelling, if such loan is held by a
creditor with assets of less than $10,000,000,000.
.
4.
Increase in small servicer exemption
Section 6 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (
12 U.S.C. 2605
) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
(n)
Small servicer exemption
The Bureau shall, by regulation, provide exemptions to, or adjustments for, the provisions of this
section for servicers that service 10,000 or fewer mortgage loans, in
order to reduce regulatory burdens while appropriately balancing consumer
protections.
.
5.
Exception to annual privacy notice requirement under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
Section 503 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (
15 U.S.C. 6803
) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
(f)
Exception to annual notice requirement
A financial institution that—
(1)
provides nonpublic personal information only in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b)(2)
or (e) of section 502 or regulations prescribed under section 504(b), and
(2)
has not changed its policies and practices with regard to disclosing nonpublic personal information
from the policies and practices that were disclosed in the most recent
disclosure sent to consumers in accordance with this subsection,
shall not be required to provide an annual disclosure under this subsection until such time as the
financial institution fails to comply with any criteria described in
paragraph (1) or (2).
.
6.
Changes required to small bank holding company policy statement on assessment of financial and
managerial factors
(a)
Small bank holding company policy statement on assessment of financial and managerial factors
(1)
In general
Before the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall publish in the Federal
Register proposed revisions to the Small Bank Holding Company Policy
Statement on Assessment of Financial and Managerial Factors (12 C.F.R.
part 225—appendix C) that provide that the policy shall apply to a bank
holding company which has pro forma consolidated assets of less than
$5,000,000,000 and that—
(A)
is not engaged in any nonbanking activities involving significant leverage; and
(B)
does not have a significant amount of outstanding debt that is held by the general public.
(2)
Adjustment of amount
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall annually adjust the dollar amount
referred to in paragraph (1) in the Small Bank Holding Company Policy
Statement on Assessment of Financial and Managerial Factors by an amount
equal to the percentage increase, for the most recent year, in total
assets held by all insured depository institutions, as determined by the
Board.
(b)
Increase in debt-to-Equity ratio of small bank holding company
Before the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall publish in the Federal
Register proposed revisions to the Small Bank Holding Company Policy
Statement on Assessment of Financial and Managerial Factors (12 C.F.R.
part 225—appendix C) such that the debt-to-equity ratio allowable for a
small bank holding company in order to remain eligible to pay a corporate
dividend and to remain eligible for expedited processing procedures under
Regulation Y of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System would
increase from 1:1 to 3:1.
7.
Membership of Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
(a)
Inclusion of a person with community bank experience
The first undesignated paragraph of section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (
12 U.S.C. 241
) is
amended by inserting after the second sentence the following:
The Board shall at all times have as a member at least 1 person with demonstrated experience
working in or supervising community banks having less than $10,000,000,000
in total assets
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and
apply to appointments made on and after that effective date, excluding any
nomination pending in the Senate on that date.
8.
Designation of rural area
(a)
Application
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection shall establish an application process under which a
person who lives or does business in a State may, with respect to an area
identified by the person in such State that has not been designated by the
Bureau as a rural area for purposes of a Federal consumer financial law
(as defined under section 1002 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of
2010), apply for such area to be so designated.
(b)
Evaluation Criteria
When evaluating an application submitted under subsection (a), the Bureau shall take into
consideration the following factors:
(1)
Criteria used by the Director of the Bureau of the Census for classifying geographical areas as
rural or urban.
(2)
Criteria used by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to designate counties as
metropolitan or micropolitan or neither.
(3)
Criteria used by the Secretary of Agriculture to determine property eligibility for rural
development programs.
(4)
The Department of Agriculture rural-urban commuting area codes.
(5)
A written opinion provided by the State’s bank supervisor, as defined under section 3(r) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813(r)
).
(6)
Population density.
(c)
Public Comment Period
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after receiving an application submitted under subsection (a), the Bureau
shall—
(A)
publish such application in the Federal Register; and
(B)
make such application available for public comment for not fewer than 90 days.
(2)
Limitation on additional applications
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Bureau, during the public comment period
with respect to an application submitted under subsection (a), to accept
an additional application with respect to the area that is the subject of
the initial application.
(d)
Decision on Designation
Not later than 90 days after the end of the public comment period under subsection (c)(1) for an
application, the Bureau shall—
(1)
grant or deny such application, in whole or in part; and
(2)
publish such grant or denial in the Federal Register, along with an explanation of what factors the
Bureau relied on in making such determination.
(e)
Subsequent Applications
A decision by the Bureau under subsection (d) to deny an application for an area to be designated
as a rural area shall not preclude the Bureau from accepting a subsequent
application submitted under subsection (a) for such area to be so
designated, so long as such subsequent application is made after the end
of the 90-day period beginning on the date that the Bureau denies the
application under subsection (d).
