1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
STEM Education Act of 2014
.
2.
Definition of STEM education
For purposes of carrying out STEM education activities at the National Science Foundation, the
Department of Energy, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National
Institute of Standards and Technology, and the Environmental Protection
Agency, the term
STEM education
means education in the subjects of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, including
other academic subjects that build on these disciplines such as computer
science.
3.
Informal STEM education
(a)
Grants
The Director of the National Science Foundation, through the Directorate for Education and Human
Resources, shall continue to award competitive, merit-reviewed grants to
supportГўВҖВ”
(1)
research and development of innovative out-of-school STEM learning and emerging STEM learning
environments in order to improve STEM learning outcomes and engagement in
STEM; and
(2)
research that advances the field of informal STEM education.
(b)
Uses of funds
Activities supported by grants under this section may encompass a single STEM discipline, multiple
STEM disciplines, or integrative STEM initiatives and shall includeГўВҖВ”
(1)
research and development that improves our understanding of learning and engagement in informal
environments, including the role of informal environments in broadening
participation in STEM; and
(2)
design and testing of innovative STEM learning models, programs, and other resources for informal
learning environments to improve STEM learning outcomes and increase
engagement for KГўВҖВ“12 students, KГўВҖВ“12 teachers, and the general public,
including design and testing of the scalability of models, programs, and
other resources.
4.
Noyce scholarship program amendments
(a)
Amendments
Section 10A of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 (
42 U.S.C. 1862nГўВҖВ“1a
) is
amendedГўВҖВ”
(1)
in subsection (a)(2)(B), by inserting
or bachelorГўВҖВҷs
after
masterГўВҖВҷs
;
(2)
in subsection (c)ГўВҖВ”
(A)
by striking
and
at the end of paragraph (2)(B);
(B)
in paragraph (3)ГўВҖВ”
(i)
by inserting
for teachers with masterГўВҖВҷs degrees in their field
after
Teaching Fellowships
; and
(ii)
by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
in the case of National Science Foundation Master Teaching Fellowships for teachers with bachelorГўВҖВҷs
degrees in their field and working toward a masterГўВҖВҷs degreeГўВҖВ”
(A)
offering academic courses leading to a masterГўВҖВҷs degree and leadership training to prepare
individuals to become master teachers in elementary and secondary schools;
and
(B)
offering programs both during and after matriculation in the program for which the fellowship is
received to enable fellows to become highly effective mathematics and
science teachers, including mentoring, training, induction, and
professional development activities, to fulfill the service requirements
of this section, including the requirements of subsection (e), and to
exchange ideas with others in their fields.
;
(3)
in subsection (e), by striking
subsection (g)
and inserting
subsection (h)
;
(4)
by redesignating subsections (g) through (i) as subsections (h) through (j), respectively; and
(5)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
(g)
Support for Master Teaching Fellows while enrolled in a masterГўВҖВҷs degree program
A National Science Foundation Master Teacher Fellow may receive a maximum of 1 year of fellowship
support while enrolled in a masterГўВҖВҷs degree program as described in
subsection (c)(4)(A), except that if such fellow is enrolled in a
part-time program, such amount shall be prorated according to the length
of the program.
.
(b)
Definition
Section 10(i)(5) of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C.
1862nГўВҖВ“1(i)(5)) is amended by inserting
computer science,
after
means a science,
.
