1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014
.
2.
Security assistance for Ukraine
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law limiting the assistance to be provided under this
section, beginning on the date following the date of completion of the
assessment required by subsection (b), the President is authorized to
provide to the Government of Ukraine upon that Government's request, as
appropriate and in a manner consistent with the capabilities and needs of
the armed forces of Ukraine identified in such assessment, the following
defense articles, services, and training:
(1)
Weapons and ammunition, as identified in such assessment.
(2)
Night navigation equipment.
(3)
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles.
(4)
High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles.
(5)
Inflatable boats.
(6)
Body armor.
(7)
Fire control, range finder, optical and guidance and control equipment.
(8)
Explosive disposal and improvised explosive device detection equipment.
(9)
Mine detection equipment.
(10)
Chemical, biological, radiation, and nuclear detection, testing, and protection equipment.
(11)
Communications, logistic, combat support, medical equipment, rations, specialized equipment, and
other defense articles, services, and training requested by the Government
of Ukraine that the President determines to be appropriate.
(b)
Required assessment
No later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
conduct an assessment, or complete any ongoing assessment, of the
capabilities and needs of the armed forces of Ukraine and shall ensure
that it includes—
(1)
an assessment of the releasability of the equipment set forth in subsection (a), equipment
requested by the Government of Ukraine, or equipment that may foreseeably
be requested based on the current state of the armed forces of Ukraine;
and
(2)
an assessment of the need for, appropriateness of, and force protection concerns of any United
States military advisors to be made available to the armed forces of
Ukraine.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2015
to carry out the activities set forth in subsection (a).
(d)
Authority for use of funds
The funds made available pursuant to subsection (c) for the provision of defense articles,
services, and training may be used to procure such assistance from the
United States Government or other appropriate sources.
(e)
Provision of assessment to Congress
Not later than 7 days following the completion of the assessment required by subsection (b), the
President shall provide such assessment to the appropriate congressional
committees.
3.
Sense of Congress on intelligence sharing with Ukraine
It is the sense of Congress that the President, subject to the discretion of the President so as to
protect sources and methods of intelligence collection and to protect the
capabilities of the intelligence community and the United States Armed
Forces, should—
(1)
provide the Government of Ukraine with appropriate intelligence and other information to assist the
Government of Ukraine—
(A)
to determine the location, strength, and capabilities of the military and intelligence forces of
the Russian Federation located on the eastern border of Ukraine and within
the territorial borders of Ukraine, including Crimea; and
(B)
to respond effectively to further aggression by military and intelligence forces of the Russian
Federation;
(2)
take steps to ensure that such intelligence information is fully and appropriately protected from
further disclosure, including limiting, as appropriate, the provision and
nature of such intelligence information;
(3)
provide, within 7 days of provision of intelligence information to the Government of Ukraine, a
report to the appropriate congressional committees detailing the
disclosure; and
(4)
provide, within 7 days of receipt of a request for intelligence information from the Government of
Ukraine, a report to the appropriate congressional committees detailing
the request.
4.
Major non-NATO ally status for Ukraine
(a)
In general
During the period in which Ukraine meets the criteria set forth in subsection (b), notwithstanding
any other provision of law, for purposes of the transfer or possible
transfer of defense articles or defense services under the Arms Export
Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.
), the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(
22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.
), or any other provision of law, Ukraine shall be
treated as though it were designated a major non-NATO ally (as defined in
section 644(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2403(q)
)).
(b)
Criteria for treatment as a major non-NATO ally
In order to be treated as a major non-NATO ally pursuant to subsection (a), Ukraine must—
(1)
have a democratically elected government that came to power pursuant to free and fair elections;
(2)
cooperate fully with the United States on matters of mutual security concern, including
counterterrorism matters; and
(3)
respect the political and legal rights of its citizens, including maintaining the right of its
citizens to democratically elect their government.
(c)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
President shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a
report assessing whether Ukraine should continue to be treated, for
purposes of the transfer or possible transfer of defense articles or
defense services, as a major non-NATO ally and whether the treatment
should be expanded or reduced.
5.
Expanded security force training, assistance and defense cooperation with Ukraine
(a)
Expanded training and assistance
The President shall take steps, consistent with the President's responsibility as Commander in
Chief, to substantially increase, within one year after the date of the
enactment of this Act—
(1)
the military-to-military interactions of United States Armed Forces with the armed forces of
Ukraine, including specifically utilizing the National Guard State
Partnership Program and increasing the current tempo of military exercises
and training efforts and exchanges with such armed forces; and
(2)
United States and NATO security assistance to Ukraine.
(b)
Bilateral and multilateral defense cooperation agreements
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall seek to enter into
negotiations with Ukraine to establish new, or strengthen existing,
bilateral and multilateral defense cooperation agreements, including
agreements related to cyber defense cooperation.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter,
the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a
report detailing the specific efforts being undertaken and planned to be
undertaken by the United States Government to implement the increased
military-to-military interactions and security assistance required by
subsection (a) and to undertake the negotiations required by subsection
(c).
6.
Definition
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed
Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services,
and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of
Representatives.
