1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Our Children Act
.
2.
Exemption for employers of employees who care for or interact with unsupervised children
(a)
Exemption
Section 7 of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988 (
29 U.S.C. 2006
) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
(g)
Exemption for certain employers of employees who care for or interact with unsupervised children
(1)
Exemption
Subject to paragraph (2) and subsection (c) of section 8, this Act shall not prohibit the use of a
polygraph test by any employer if the test is administered to a
prospective employee—
(A)
whose activities would involve the care or supervision of children or regular access to children
who are cared for or supervised by another employee;
(B)
whose job description indicates a high probability that the prospective employee will interact with
unsupervised children on a frequent basis; or
(C)
where the employer reasonably believes there is a high probability of unsupervised interaction
between the prospective employee and a child on a more than incidental
basis.
(2)
Conditions
In addition to the requirements imposed by section 8(c), the exemption provided under paragraph (1)
shall not apply unless the following conditions are met:
(A)
The prospective employee is provided with reasonable written notice of the date, time, and location
of the polygraph test and of such examinee’s right to obtain and consult
with legal counsel or an employee representative before each phase of the
test.
(B)
Following the polygraph test, before any adverse employment action is taken, the employer shall—
(i)
further interview the examinee on the basis of the results of the test; and
(ii)
provide the examinee with—
(I)
a written copy of any opinion or conclusion rendered as a result of the test; and
(II)
a copy of the questions asked during the test along with the corresponding charted responses.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 8(c) of such Act (
29 U.S.C. 2007(c)
) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
striking
and (f)
and inserting
(f) and (g)
.
