1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Honoring the Fort Hood Heroes Act
.
2.
Declarations of policy
Congress makes the following declarations of policy:
(1)
The November 5, 2009, attack at Fort Hood, Texas, constituted an act of terrorism, not merely workplace violence.
(2)
The United States Government has a fundamental duty to our military service members to safeguard them against avoidable harm in the course of their service, and the attack on Fort Hood could and should have been prevented.
(3)
Nidal Hasan, the perpetrator of the attack, had become radicalized while serving in the United States Army and was principally motivated to carry out the attack by an ideology of violent Islamist extremism.
(4)
Through his actions that day, Nidal Hasan proved himself to be not just a terrorist, but also a traitor and an enemy of the United States.
3.
Awards required
(a)
Purple Heart
The Secretary of the military department concerned shall award the Purple Heart to the members of the Armed Forces who were killed or wounded in the attack that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009.
(b)
Secretary of Defense Medal for the Defense of Freedom
The Secretary of Defense shall award the Secretary of Defense Medal for the Defense of Freedom to civilian employees of the Department of Defense and civilian contractors who were killed or wounded in the attack that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009.
4.
Benefits for members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense who were killed or wounded in the November 5, 2009, attack at Fort Hood, Texas
(a)
Treatment
For purposes of all applicable Federal laws, regulations, and policies, a member of the Armed Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense who was killed or wounded in the attack that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009, shall be deemed, effective as of such date, as follows:
(1)
In the case of a member, to have been killed or wounded in a combat zone as the result of an act of an enemy of the United States.
(2)
In the case of a civilian employee of the Department of Defense—
(A)
to have been killed or wounded by hostile action while serving with the Armed Forces in a contingency operation; and
(B)
to have been killed or wounded in a terrorist attack.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to a member of the Armed Forces whose death or wound as described in that subsection is the result of the willful misconduct of the member.
(c)
Coverage of psychological injuries
Subsection (a) applies to members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or other psychological injuries as a result of the attack that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009.
