1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Labor Statistics Improvement Act
.
2.
Establishment of commission
There is established an independent commission to be known as the
Commission to Improve Labor Statistics
.
3.
Duties of commission
The Commission shall—
(1)
examine and make an assessment of the process by which the Bureau of Labor Statistics collects,
processes, analyzes, and disseminates statistical data relating to
unemployment rates, including—
(A)
the methods used for determining that an individual is or is not considered to be looking for work,
including what constitutes actively looking versus passively looking or
discouraged
; and
(B)
the utility of the six measures used by the Bureau for reporting labor underutilization;
(2)
formulate recommendations for any improvement to such process and methods, including proposals for
any alternative measures of labor force participation, taking into
account—
(A)
evidence that the official unemployment rate doesn’t always accurately reflect labor market
strength; and
(B)
that unemployment rates may vary over a business cycle due to changes in labor force participation
rather than from factors affecting labor market strength; and
(3)
develop a new method or methods for determining and reporting underemployment that takes into
consideration workers—
(A)
who are not in jobs that match their skill set or education; and
(B)
who are earning less than other workers in similar occupations or with similar skill sets and
education.
4.
Membership of commission
(a)
Appointment
The Commission shall be composed of four members appointed from among individuals with experience
in the private sector, academia, or the Federal civil service, each having
expertise in economic analysis, understanding labor markets, or
statistical analysis. Members shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
Two members appointed by the President.
(2)
One member appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate.
(3)
One member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Deadline for appointment
Each member shall be appointed to the Commission not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(c)
Terms and vacancies
Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission. A vacancy in the Commission shall be
filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(d)
Basic pay and travel expenses
Members shall serve without pay. Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections
5702
and
5703
of title 5,
United States Code.
(e)
Quorum
Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
(f)
Chairperson
The Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by the members.
(g)
Meetings
The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.
5.
Staff of commission
(a)
Staff
The Chairperson may appoint and fix the pay of the personnel of the Commission as the Chairperson
considers appropriate.
(b)
Applicability of certain civil service laws
The staff of the Commission shall be appointed subject to the provisions of title 5, United States
Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be paid
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of
chapter 53 of that title relating to classification and General Schedule
pay rates.
(c)
Staff of Federal agencies
Upon request of the Chairperson, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a
reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to
the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act.
6.
Report of commission
Not later than 180 days after the date on which all original members have been appointed to the
Commission, the Commission shall transmit to the President and Congress a
report that contains a detailed statement of the findings and
recommendations of the Commission developed pursuant to section 3.
7.
Termination of commission
(a)
Termination
The Commission shall terminate 60 days after the date of submission of the report pursuant to
section 7.
(b)
Administrative activities before termination
The Commission may use the 60-day period referred to in subsection (a) for the purpose of
concluding its activities, including providing testimony to committees of
Congress concerning its reports and disseminating the second report.
