1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Health Care for Young Americans Act of 2014
.
2.
Extension of dependent coverage
(a)
Group market
(1)
In general
Subpart 1 of part A of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end:
2703A.
Extension of dependent coverage
(a)
In General
A group health plan and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage that
provides dependent coverage of children shall continue to make such
coverage available for such a dependent after such dependent turns 18
years of age until the first of the following events occurs:
(1)
The dependent turns 26 years of age.
(2)
The dependent marries.
(3)
Subject to
subsection (c)
, the dependent no longer resides in the home of—
(A)
the policy holder through which such dependent is eligible for dependent coverage; or
(B)
in the case that the policy holder through which such dependent is eligible for dependent coverage
provides such coverage subject to an order to provide child support, the
dependent’s parent or legal guardian.
(b)
Exception for college students
Paragraph (3) of
subsection (a)
shall not apply to a dependent for any period of time during which such dependent is enrolled as a
full-time student at a postsecondary educational institution (including an
institution of higher education as defined in section 102 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965).
(c)
Limitation
Nothing in this section shall require a plan or an issuer described in
subsection (a)
to make coverage available for a child of an individual receiving dependent coverage pursuant to
this section.
(d)
Rule of Construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to modify the definition of
dependent
as used in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to the tax treatment of the cost of
coverage.
.
(2)
Regulations
The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to define the dependents to which coverage shall be made
available under section 2703A of the Public Health Service Act, as added
by paragraph (1).
(b)
Individual market
Subpart 1 of part B of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–41 et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
2748.
Extension of dependent coverage
The provisions of section 2703A shall apply to health insurance coverage offered to individuals by
a health insurance issuer in the individual market in the same manner as
it applies to health insurance coverage offered by a health insurance
issuer in the group market.
.
(c)
Effective date contingent on repeal of PPACA
(1)
In general
Subsections (a) and (b) and the amendments made by such subsections shall take effect upon the
enactment of PPACA repeal legislation described in paragraph (2) and such
subsections and amendments shall have no force or effect if such PPACA
repeal legislation is not enacted.
(2)
PPACA repeal legislation described
For purposes of paragraph (1), PPACA repeal legislation described in this paragraph is legislation
that—
(A)
repeals
Public Law 111–148
, and restores or revives the provisions of law amended or repealed,
respectively, by such Act as if such Act had not been enacted and without
further amendment to such provisions of law; and
(B)
repeals title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (
Public Law 111–152
), and restores or revives the provisions of law
amended or repealed, respectively, by such title or subtitle,
respectively, as if such title and subtitle had not been enacted and
without further amendment to such provisions of law.
