1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Critical Infrastructure Research and
Development Advancement Act of 2013
or the
CIRDA Act of
2013
.
2.
Definitions
Section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (
6 U.S.C. 101
) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (15) through (18) as
paragraphs (16) through (19), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph
(14) the following:
(15)
The term
Sector Coordinating
Council
means a private sector coordinating council that is—
(A)
recognized by the Secretary as such a
Council for purposes of this Act; and
(B)
comprised of
representatives of owners and operators of critical infrastructure within a
particular sector of critical
infrastructure.
.
3.
Critical
infrastructure protection research and development
(a)
In
general
Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
181 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
318.
Research and
development strategy for critical infrastructure protection
(a)
In
General
Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of the Critical Infrastructure Research and
Development Advancement Act of 2013, the Secretary, acting through the Under
Secretary for Science and Technology, shall transmit to Congress a strategic
plan to guide the overall direction of Federal physical security and
cybersecurity technology research and development efforts for protecting
critical infrastructure. Once every 2 years after the initial strategic plan is
transmitted to Congress under this section, the Secretary shall transmit to
Congress an update of the plan.
(b)
Contents of
Plan
The strategic plan shall include the following:
(1)
An identification of critical
infrastructure security risks and the associated security technology gaps, that
are developed following—
(A)
consultation with stakeholders, including
the Sector Coordinating Councils; and
(B)
performance by the
Department of a risk/gap analysis that considers information received in such
consultations.
(2)
A set of critical infrastructure security
technology needs that—
(A)
is prioritized based on risk and gaps
identified under paragraph (1);
(B)
emphasizes
research and development of those technologies that need to be accelerated due
to rapidly evolving threats or rapidly advancing infrastructure technology;
and
(C)
includes research,
development, and acquisition roadmaps with clearly defined objectives, goals,
and measures.
(3)
An identification
of laboratories, facilities, modeling, and simulation capabilities that will be
required to support the research, development, demonstration, testing,
evaluation, and acquisition of the security technologies described in paragraph
(2).
(4)
An identification
of current and planned programmatic initiatives for fostering the rapid
advancement and deployment of security technologies for critical infrastructure
protection. The initiatives shall consider opportunities for public-private
partnerships, intragovernment collaboration, university centers of excellence,
and national laboratory technology transfer.
(c)
Coordination
In
carrying out this section, the Under Secretary for Science and Technology shall
coordinate with the Under Secretary for the National Protection and Programs
Directorate.
(d)
Consultation
In
carrying out this section, the Under Secretary for Science and Technology shall
consult with—
(1)
the critical
infrastructure Sector Coordinating Councils;
(2)
to the extent practicable, subject matter
experts on critical infrastructure protection from universities, national
laboratories, and private industry;
(3)
the heads of other
relevant Federal departments and agencies that conduct research and development
for critical infrastructure protection; and
(4)
State, local, and
tribal governments as appropriate.
319.
Report on
public-private research and development consortiums
(a)
In
general
Not later than 180
days after the enactment of the
Critical
Infrastructure Research and Development Advancement Act of 2013
,
the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology,
shall transmit to Congress a study on the use by the Department of
public-private research and development consortiums for accelerating technology
development for critical infrastructure protection. Once every 2 years after
the initial study is transmitted to Congress under this section, the Secretary
shall transmit to Congress an update of the study. The study shall focus on
those aspects of critical infrastructure protection that are predominately
operated by the private sector and that would most benefit from rapid security
technology advancement.
(b)
Contents of
Study
The study shall include—
(1)
a summary of the
progress and accomplishments of on-going consortiums for critical
infrastructure security technologies;
(2)
in consultation with the Sector
Coordinating Councils, a prioritized list of technology development focus areas
that would most benefit from a public-private research and development
consortium; and
(3)
based on the
prioritized list developed under paragraph (2), a proposal for implementing an
expanded research and development consortium program, including an assessment
of feasibility and an estimate of cost, schedule, and
milestones.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by adding at the end of the items relating to such title the
following:
Sec. 318. Research and development strategy for critical
infrastructure protection.
Sec. 319. Report on public-private research and development
consortiums.
.
(c)
Critical
infrastructure protection technology clearinghouse
Section
313 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 193
) is amended by
redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d), and by inserting after
subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Critical
infrastructure protection technology clearinghouse
(1)
Designation
Under the program required by this section,
the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology,
and in coordination with the Under Secretary for the National Protection and
Programs Directorate, shall designate a technology clearinghouse for rapidly
sharing proven technology solutions for protecting critical
infrastructure.
(2)
Sharing of
technology solutions
Technology solutions shared through the
clearinghouse shall draw from Government-furnished, commercially furnished, and
publically available trusted sources.
(3)
Technology
metrics
All technologies shared through the clearinghouse shall
include a set of metrics to assist end-users in deploying timely and effective
solutions relevant for their critical infrastructures.
(4)
Review by
privacy officer
The Privacy
Officer of the Department appointed under section 222 shall annually review the
clearinghouse process to evaluate its consistency with fair information
practice principles issued by the Privacy
Officer.
.
(d)
Evaluation of
Technology Clearinghouse by Government Accountability Office
Not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall
conduct an independent evaluation of, and submit to the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on, the effectiveness of the
clearinghouses established and designated, respectively, under section 313 of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended by this section.
4.
No
additional authorization of appropriations
No additional funds are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act, and
this Act and such amendments shall be carried out using amounts otherwise
available for such purpose.
