1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
414 Plan Act of 2014
.
2.
Suspension of Federal requirements for highway construction projects
(a)
In general
Except as provided by subsection (b), the requirements of Federal laws and regulations, including
the prevailing rate of wage requirements specified in section 113 of title
23, United States Code, shall not apply to any Federal-aid highway or
highway safety construction project.
(b)
Exceptions
Subsection (a) shall not apply to Federal laws and regulations relating to, as determined by the
Secretary of Transportation—
(1)
the safety or durability of a highway facility; or
(2)
public or workplace safety.
(c)
Sunset
This section shall cease to be effective after the last day of the 5-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act.
3.
Federal requirements regarding bicycle transportation and pedestrian walkways
(a)
Repeal of protection of nonmotorized transportation traffic requirement
Section 109(m)
of title 23, United States Code, is repealed.
(b)
Definition of transportation alternatives
Section 101(a)(29)
of title 23, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(29)
Transportation alternatives
The term
transportation alternatives
means any of the following activities when carried out as part of any program or project
authorized or funded under this title, or as an independent program or
project related to surface transportation:
(A)
Construction, planning, and design of transportation projects to achieve compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
).
(B)
Construction, planning, and design of infrastructure-related projects and systems that will provide
safe routes for nondrivers, including children, older adults, and
individuals with disabilities to access daily needs.
.
(c)
Repeal of bicycle transportation and pedestrian walkways authorizations and requirements
Section 217
of title 23, United States Code, and the item relating to such section in the analysis
for chapter 2 of that title, are repealed.
(d)
Planning requirements
(1)
General requirements
Sections
134(c)(2)
and
135(a)(2)
of title 23, United States Code, and sections 5303(c)(2) and
5304(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, are amended by striking
(including accessible pedestrian walkways and bicycle transportation facilities)
.
(2)
Participation by interested parties
Sections
134(i)(6)(A)
and
135(f)(3)(A)(ii)
of title 23, United States Code, and sections
5303(i)(6)(A) and 5304(f)(3)(A)(ii) of title 49, United States Code, are
amended by striking
representatives of users of pedestrian walkways and bicycle transportation facilities,
.
4.
Sense of Congress on need for cooperation to expedite surface transportation projects
It is the sense of Congress that States, Federal agencies, localities, and private stakeholders
should take steps toward increased cooperation to further expedite surface
transportation projects.
5.
Applicability
This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply to fiscal years beginning after the date
of enactment of this Act.
