1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Farm Protection Act of 2014
.
2.
Extension of marketing assistance loans and deadline for repayment of farm ownership, operating, or
emergency loans in certain cases of bankruptcy
Section 1203(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (
7 U.S.C. 9033(b)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting the following:
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
Extension of certain loans in event of purchaser bankruptcy
(A)
In general
This paragraph applies whenever—
(i)
the producers on a farm have a marketing assistance loan under section 1201 for a loan commodity;
(ii)
the producers have sold, transferred, or delivered the loan commodity subject to the loan to a
purchaser; and
(iii)
a case under any chapter of title 11, United States Code (in this paragraph referred to as a
chapter 11 bankruptcy
), has been commenced in which the purchaser is the debtor.
(B)
Extension for non-payment
If a chapter 11 bankruptcy in which the purchaser of a loan commodity is the debtor, as described
in subparagraph (A), is commenced before the purchaser pays the producers
in full for the loan commodity, the Secretary shall extend, to a date that
is not less than 180 days after the date on which the chapter 11
bankruptcy is closed or dismissed—
(i)
the term and any due date for any payment or obligation pursuant to the marketing assistance loan
of the producers; and
(ii)
the due date for any payment or obligation pursuant to any ownership, operating, or emergency loan
made to the producers under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act (
7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.
).
(C)
Related suspensions
(i)
Accrual of interest
If the purchaser of the loan commodity has already taken possession of the loan commodity, the
Secretary also shall suspend the accruing of interest on the loans
described in subparagraph (B) during the period of the extension under
such subparagraph.
(ii)
Recovery actions
If a trustee in the purchaser’s chapter 11 bankruptcy seeks recovery of all or any portion of a
purchase price paid to or on behalf of the producers for the loan
commodity, the Secretary also shall suspend any efforts to collect from
the producers any amounts related to such recovery or potential recovery
until a date that is not less than 180 days after the final resolution of
the action to recover all or any portion of the purchase price.
.
