1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans’ Credit Protection Act
.
2.
Outreach to veterans regarding effect of delayed payments by Veterans Integrated Service Networks
(a)
Outreach
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct outreach, including through national and local
veterans service organizations, to inform veterans of how to resolve
credit issues caused by a delayed payment. The Secretary shall establish a
toll-free telephone number for veterans to report such credit issues to
the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
(b)
Annual report
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall annually submit to Congress a report on the effectiveness
of each Veterans Integrated Service Network in providing timely payment of
a proper invoice by the required payment date during both the five-year
period preceding the date of the report and the one-year period preceding
such date.
(2)
Matters included
The reports under paragraph (1) shall include, for each period covered by the report, the
following:
(A)
The number of veterans who contacted the Secretary regarding a delayed payment that negatively
affected, or will potentially negatively affect, the credit of the
veteran.
(B)
The total amount of interest penalties paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section 3902
of title 31, United States Code, by reason of a delayed payment.
(C)
The number of proper invoices submitted, listed in a table for each quarter and fiscal year of each
such period that includes—
(i)
the total amount owed by the Secretary under the proper invoices;
(ii)
the payment status of each proper invoice, as of the date of the report; and
(iii)
the period that elapsed until each proper invoice was paid, including an explanation of any delayed
payment.
(D)
Any comments regarding delayed payments made by medical providers.
(E)
An identification of the Veterans Integrated Service Network with the least number of delayed
payments and the Veterans Integrated Service Network with the most number
of delayed payments.
(F)
A description of the best practices that a Veterans Integrated Service Network can carry out to
provide timely payment of a proper invoice, including a plan for
underperforming Veterans Integrated Service Networks to improve such
timely payments.
(c)
Comptroller General study
(1)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study that compares the effectiveness
of each Veterans Integrated Service Network in providing timely payment of
a proper invoice by the required payment date.
(2)
Submittal
The Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on the study conducted under paragraph
(1), including the total amount of interest penalties paid by the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs under
section 3902
of title 31, United
States Code, by reason of a delayed payment.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
delayed payment
means a proper invoice that is not paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs until after the
required payment date.
(2)
The term
proper invoice
has the meaning given that term in
section 3901(a)
of title 31.
(3)
The term
required payment date
means the date that payment is due for a contract pursuant to
section 3903(a)
of title 31.
