1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Truth in Advertising Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Advertisers regularly alter images used in print and electronic media to materially change the
physical characteristics of models’ faces and bodies, often altering the
models’ size, proportions, shape, and skin color, removing signs of
ageing, and making other similar changes to models’ appearance.
(2)
An increasing amount of academic evidence links exposure to such altered images with emotional,
mental, and physical health issues, including eating disorders, especially
among children and teenagers. There is particular concern about the
marketing of such images to children and teenagers through distribution in
teen-oriented publications, advertising displayed in public places outside
the home, and online media.
(3)
Such altered images can create distorted and unrealistic expectations and understandings of
appropriate and healthy weight and body image.
(4)
The dissemination of unrealistic body standards has been linked to eating disorders among men and
women of varying age groups, but it has a particularly destructive health
effect on children and teenagers.
(5)
Academic evidence has demonstrated a connection between the use of very thin models in advertising
and consumer attitudes toward a brand based on such advertising, as well
as a material influence of the use of such models on consumer purchase
intent, conduct, and reliance.
(6)
In 2011, the American Medical Association adopted a policy encouraging advertising associations to
work with public and private sector organizations concerned with child and
adolescent health to develop guidelines for advertisements, especially
those appearing in teen-oriented publications, that would discourage the
altering of photographs in a manner that could promote unrealistic
expectations of appropriate body image.
3.
Report by Federal Trade Commission
(a)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade Commission
shall submit to Congress a report that contains—
(1)
a strategy to reduce the use, in advertising and other media for the promotion of commercial
products, of images that have been altered to materially change the
physical characteristics of the faces and bodies of the individuals
depicted; and
(2)
recommendations for an appropriate, risk-based regulatory framework with respect to such use.
(b)
Input of external stakeholders and experts
In preparing the report required by subsection (a), the Federal Trade Commission shall solicit
input from external stakeholders and experts on the strategy and
recommendations required to be included in such report. The Commission, in
consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health
and the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration, shall ensure that input is obtained from an appropriate
number of stakeholders and experts and, to the extent practicable, from
stakeholders and experts that are geographically and culturally diverse
and that include stakeholders and experts from the physical and mental
health, business, and consumer advocacy communities.
