1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Certainty in Enforcement Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has, since 1965, been responsible for enforcing
Federal laws against employment discrimination, but there are growing
concerns about the enforcement and policy approach adopted by the EEOC,
raising questions about whether the best interests of workers and
employers are being served.
(2)
The EEOC may promulgate guidance under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but that guidance does not
have the force of law, and in some cases has been rejected by the courts.
(3)
In 2012, the EEOC promulgated enforcement guidance regarding the use of criminal background checks
that put employers in the position of acting contrary to Federal, State,
and local laws that require employers to conduct criminal background
checks for certain positions, such as public safety officers, teachers,
and daycare providers.
(4)
In EEOC v. Peoplemark, Inc., a case challenging Peoplemark’s use of criminal background checks in
making employment decisions,
the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in October 2013 affirmed an
award of $751,942 against the EEOC for prevailing defendant Peoplemark’s
attorney’s and expert fees.
(5)
In EEOC v. Kaplan Higher Education Corporation, a case challenging Kaplan’s use of credit reports
in the hiring process, the Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit affirmed the district court’s decision granting summary
judgment in favor of Kaplan and stated that the EEOC brought a case on the
basis of a
homemade methodology, crafted by a witness with no particular expertise to craft it, administered
by persons with no particular expertise to administer it, tested by no
one, and accepted only by the witness himself
.
3.
Amendment
Section 703 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000e–2
) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
(o)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, it shall not be an unlawful employment practice
for an employer, labor organization, or employment agency, or for a joint
labor management committee controlling apprenticeships or other training
or retraining opportunities, to engage in an employment practice that is
required by Federal, State, or local law, in an area such as, but not
limited to, health care, childcare, in-home services, policing, security,
education, finance, employee benefits, and fiduciary duties.
.
