1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Water Supply Cost Savings Act
or the
Savings Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
the United States is facing a drinking water infrastructure funding crisis; the Environmental
Protection Agency (the
EPA
) projects a $384 billion shortfall in funding over the next 20 years; and this funding challenge
is particularly acute in rural America;
(2)
there are 52,000 community water systems in the United States, of which 41,801 are small community
water systems;
(3)
EPA’s most recent Drinking Water Needs Survey placed the shortfall in drinking water infrastructure
funding for small communities (3,300 or fewer persons) at $64.5 billion;
(4)
small communities often cannot finance the construction and maintenance of drinking water systems
because the cost per resident for this investment would be prohibitively
expensive;
(5)
drought conditions have placed significant strains on existing surface water supplies, and many
communities across the country are now considering the use of groundwater
and community well systems to provide drinking water; and
(6)
42 million Americans receive their drinking water from individual wells, and millions more rely
upon community well systems for their drinking water.
3.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1)
providing rural communities with the knowledge and resources necessary to fully utilize wells and
community well systems can save local, State, and Federal governments and
taxpayers billions of dollars over the next two decades;
(2)
wells and community well systems can provide safe and affordable drinking water to millions of
Americans; and
(3)
the Federal Government lacks the resources to finance the drinking water infrastructure needs of
millions of citizens residing in rural America, and wells and community
well systems can help significantly to close this funding gap.
4.
Drinking water technology clearinghouse
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of Agriculture shall—
(1)
update existing programs of the Agency and the Department of Agriculture designed to provide
drinking water technical assistance to include information on
cost-effective, innovative, and alternative drinking water delivery
systems, including systems that are supported by wells; and
(2)
disseminate information on the cost effectiveness of wells and well systems to communities and
not-for-profit organizations seeking Federal funding for drinking water
systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons.
5.
Water system assessment
In any application for a Federal grant or loan for a drinking water system serving 3,300 or fewer
persons, a unit of local government or not-for-profit organization shall
certify that it has considered, as an alternative drinking water supply,
drinking water delivery systems sourced by publicly owned individual
wells, shared wells, and community wells.
6.
Report to Congress
Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
report to Congress on—
(1)
the utilization of innovative and alternative drinking water systems described in this Act;
(2)
the range of cost savings for communities utilizing innovative and alternative drinking water
systems described in this Act; and
(3)
the utilization of drinking water technical assistance programs operated by the Agency and the
Department.
