1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Desert Storm and Desert Shield War Memorial Act
.
2.
Definitions
For the purposes of this Act:
(1)
Association
The term
Association
means the National Desert Storm Memorial Association, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Arkansas and described in section 501(c)(3) and exempt from taxation under
section 501(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(2)
Memorial
The term
memorial
means the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial authorized to be established under section 3.
3.
Memorial to commemorate
(a)
Authorization To establish commemorative work
The Association may establish the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial as a commemorative work, on Federal land in the District of Columbia to commemorate and honor those who, as a member of the Armed Forces, served on active duty in support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.
(b)
Compliance with standards for commemorative works act
The establishment of the commemorative work shall be in accordance with
chapter 89
of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the
Commemorative Works Act
).
(c)
Use of federal funds prohibited
Federal funds may not be used to pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial. The Association shall be solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial.
(d)
Deposit of excess funds
If, upon payment of all expenses for the establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and preservation amount required by
section 8906(b)(1)
of title 40, United States Code), or upon expiration of the authority for the commemorative work under
section 8903(e)
of title 40, United States Code, there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the commemorative work, the Association shall transmit the amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Interior for deposit in the account provided for in
section 8906(b)(3)
of title 40, United States Code.
