1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Business Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2014
.
2.
Contracts with small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans
Section 8127
of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (m); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (k) the following new subsection (l):
(l)
Limitations on subcontracting
(1)
(A)
The requirements applicable to a small business concern under section 46 of the Small Business Act
(
15 U.S.C. 657s
) shall apply with respect to a small business concern
owned and controlled by a veteran with a service-connected disability or a
small business concern owned and controlled by a veteran that is awarded a
contract under this section.
(B)
For purposes of applying the requirements of section 46 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 657s
)
pursuant to subparagraph (A)—
(i)
a small business concern owned and controlled by a veteran shall be treated as a small business
concern owned and controlled by a veteran with a service-connected
disability; and
(ii)
the term
similarly situated entity
used in such section 46 means a subcontractor for a small business concern owned and controlled by
a veteran with a service-connected disability or a small business concern
owned and controlled by a veteran described in such subparagraph (A).
(2)
Upon awarding a contract to a small business concern under this section, the Secretary shall obtain
from an offeror a certification that the offeror will comply with the
requirements described in paragraph (1)(A) if awarded the contract. Such
certification shall—
(A)
specify the exact performance requirements applicable under such paragraph; and
(B)
explicitly acknowledge that the certification is subject to
section 1001
of title 18.
(3)
If the Secretary determines that a small business concern that is awarded a contract under this
section did not act in good faith with respect to the requirements
described in paragraph (1)(A), the small business concern shall be subject
to the penalties specified in—
(A)
section 16(g)(1) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 645(g)(1)
); and
(B)
section 1001
of title 18.
(4)
(A)
The Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization established by section
15(k) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(k)
) and the Chief
Acquisition Officer established under
section 1702
of title 41 shall
jointly implement a process using the systems described in section
16(g)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 645(g)(2)
), or any other
systems available, to monitor compliance with this subsection. The
Director and the Chief Acquisition Officer shall jointly refer any
violations of this subsection to the Inspector General of the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
(B)
The Inspector General shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Senate an annual report that includes—
(i)
the number of referred violations received under subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
the disposition of such referred violations, including the number of small business concerns
suspended or debarred from Federal contracting or referred to the Attorney
General for prosecution.
.
