1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Indian Tribal Self-Determination in Land Consolidation Act of 2014
.
2.
Indian Land Consolidation Act Amendments
Section 213(b)(3) of the Indian Land Consolidation Act (
25 U.S.C. 2212(b)(3)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (C)—
(A)
by striking
may enter into agreements (such agreements will not be subject to the provisions of 
and inserting
shall, at the request of the tribal government, enter into agreements (including contracts or
compacts under
; and
(B)
by striking
and
at the end; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following subparagraphs:
(D)
shall make payments to the tribal government in an amount necessary to carry out any such agreement
upon execution of the agreement or, at the discretion of the tribe,
consistent with periodic installments under title IV of the Indian
Self-Determination Act; and
(E)
shall authorize the tribal government to use any interest earned on such payments to acquire any
fractional interest in, or permanent improvements located on, any tract of
land which already has one or more trust or restricted fractional
interests; and
.
3.
Trust Land Consolidation Fund Extension
Section 101(e)(1)(b) of the Claims Resolution Act (
Public Law 111–291
) is amended by striking
10-year
and inserting
15-year
.
4.
Limitation
Notwithstanding section 213(b) of the Indian Land Consolidation Act (as amended by section 2) (25
U.S.C. 2212(b)) and the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance
Act (
25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.
), any funding appropriated under section
101(e)(1)(C) of the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 (
Public Law 111–291
)
that is made available pursuant to contracts or compacts authorized by
section 213(b) of the Indian Land Consolidation Act (as amended by section
2) shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in
section F.2. of the Class Action Settlement Agreement authorized,
ratified, and confirmed by the Claims Resolution Act of 2010.
5.
Annual Reports to Congress
In order to provide the Congress with periodic assessments of the implementation of the Trust Land
Consolidation Fund, the Secretary of the Interior shall prepare and submit
to the Committee on Natural Resources in the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Indian Affairs in the Senate, not later than September
30th on an annual basis, a report containing the following:
(1)
The number of cooperative agreements, contracts, compacts, and other instruments entered into with
Indian tribes to carry out land consolidation.
(2)
The number of fractionated interests purchased and vested in tribal ownership.
(3)
The amount drawn from the Trust Land Consolidation Fund.
(4)
The forward balance of the Trust Land Consolidation Fund.
(5)
Projections for land purchases for the duration of the Trust Land Consolidation Fund.
6.
Consultation with Indian Tribes
The Secretary of the Interior shall implement the amendments made by sections 2 and 3 in
consultation with Indian tribes pursuant to applicable law, including
regulations and executive orders.
