1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bureau Examination Fairness Act
.
2.
Examination requirements
(a)
In general
The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 is amended by inserting after section 1026 the
following:
1026A.
Examination requirements
(a)
Non-Inclusion of enforcement attorneys
The Bureau may not include enforcement attorneys when performing examinations pursuant to section
1024, 1025, or 1026.
(b)
Data requests
In any request for data from an entity supervised by the Bureau pursuant to section 1024, 1025, or
1026, the Bureau shall—
(1)
ensure that the different divisions of the Bureau coordinate with each other before the data is
requested;
(2)
accompany each request with a written statement of intended use for the data being requested;
(3)
use peer-reviewed data sampling based on limited data sets rather than requesting full data sets,
unless the Director determines, in writing, that requesting full data sets
is necessary; and
(4)
with respect to a data request with respect to which the Bureau anticipates the cost of complying
with such request will exceed $50,000 per company, provide the entity with
the written approval of the Director for such request.
(c)
Examination time period
When respect to an examination conducted by the Bureau, the Bureau shall—
(1)
complete the examination field work and conduct an exit interview with the entity being examined
not later than the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date the
examination begins; and
(2)
produce a report of examination or supervisory letter—
(A)
not later than the end of the 120-day period beginning on the date the examination is completed; or
(B)
if the Director authorizes an extension and provides a written justification for such extension,
not later than end of the 180-day period beginning on the date the
examination is completed.
(d)
Prohibition on concurrent examinations
The Bureau may only perform one limited-scope examination of an entity at any one time.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents under section 1 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1026 the
following:
Sec. 1026A. Examination requirements.
.
