1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Small Business Advisory Board Act
.
2.
Establishment of a Small Business Advisory Board within the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
(a)
In general
The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 is amended by inserting after section 1014 (12 U.S.C.
5494) the following new section:
1014A.
Small Business Advisory Board
(a)
Establishment
The Director shall establish a Small Business Advisory Board—
(1)
to advise and consult with the Bureau in the exercise of the Bureau’s functions under the Federal
consumer financial laws applicable to eligible financial products or
services; and
(2)
to provide information on emerging practices of small business concerns that provide eligible
financial products or services, including regional trends, concerns, and
other relevant information.
(b)
Membership
(1)
Number
The Director shall appoint no fewer than 12 members to the Small Business Advisory Board.
(2)
Qualification
Members appointed pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be representatives of small business concerns
that provide eligible financial products or services.
(c)
Meetings
The Small Business Advisory Board—
(1)
shall meet from time to time at the call of the Director; and
(2)
shall meet at least twice each year.
(d)
Compensation and travel expenses
Members of the Small Business Advisory Board who are not full-time employees of the United States
shall—
(1)
be entitled to receive compensation at a rate fixed by the Director while attending meetings of the
Small Business Advisory Board, including travel time; and
(2)
be allowed travel expenses, including transportation and subsistence, while away from their homes
or regular places of business.
(e)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
eligible financial product or service
means a financial product or service that is offered or provided for use by consumers primarily
for personal, family, or household purposes as described in clause (i),
(iii), (v), (vi), or (ix) of section 1002(15)(A); and
(2)
the term
small business concern
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
.
(b)
Table of contents amendment
The table of contents of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C.
5301 et seq.) is amended by inserting after the item related to section
1014 the following new item:
Sec.1014A. Small Business Advisory Board.
.
