1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Franchise Financing Improvement Act of 2014
.
2.
Eligibility for financial assistance
Section 2 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631
) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
(k)
The Administrator shall make financial assistance available to franchisees under this Act or titles
III and V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 if the franchisee
is not affiliated with the franchisor pursuant to section 3 of this Act.
.
3.
Affiliation rules for franchisees
Section 3(a)(5) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(a)(5)
) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
Eligibility of franchisees
For purposes of determining eligibility of franchisees for financial assistance under this Act or
titles III and V of the Small Business Act, a franchisee shall not be
considered affiliated with the franchisor if—
(i)
the franchisor has filed a disclosure document pursuant to—
(I)
part 436 of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation); or
(II)
any law or regulation of a State or territory that mandates disclosure of information to a
franchisee; and
(ii)
the franchisee, upon default on a loan (whether guaranteed by the Administrator or not) has no
ability to obtain financial assistance from the franchisor to repay such
loan. For purposes of this clause, a franchisor’s authority to repurchase
the franchise for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement or have the right of first refusal to purchase the
franchise from the franchisee shall not be considered financial assistance
to repay loans issued to the franchisee.
(D)
Definitions
For the purposes of subparagraph (C), the terms
franchisor
and
franchisee
have the meaning given those terms in
section 436.1
of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations as of
January 1, 2014, or any successor regulation.
.
4.
Issuance of regulations
(a)
The Administrator, after the opportunity for notice and comment, shall issue regulations to
implement this Act within 120 days of enactment.
(b)
If the Administrator fails to promulgate such regulations, the Administrator shall, unless there is
clear and convincing evidence of fraud, honor the terms and conditions of
any guarantee issued by the Administrator pursuant to the Small Business
Act (
15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.
) or titles III and V of the Small Business
Investment Act of 1958 (
15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.
) without regard to whether
the entity complied with any Standard Operating Procedure issued by the
Administrator until such time as the Administrator issues regulations
under subsection (a).
(c)
For purposes of subsection (b), the term
Standard Operating Procedure
shall have the meaning given the term
SOPs
in
section 120.10
of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations as in effect on January 1, 2014, or any
successor regulation.
