1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Wood Stove Regulatory Relief Act of 2014
.
2.
Regulation of new residential wood heaters, new residential hydronic heaters, new forced-air
furnaces, and new residential masonry heaters
(a)
Prohibition
During the period specified in subsection (c), the Administrator may not finalize, issue,
implement, or enforce any rule described in subsection (b) unless such
rule meets the requirements described in subsection (d).
(b)
Rules
Subsection (a) applies with respect to—
(1)
the proposed rule entitled
Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters, New Residential Hydronic Heaters and
Forced-Air Furnaces, and New Residential Masonry Heaters
published at 79 Fed. Reg. 6330 (February 3, 2014) or any successor or substantially similar rule;
and
(2)
any other rule under section 111 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411
) that is applicable to any
new source that is a residential wood heater, a residential hydronic
heater, a forced-air furnace, or a residential masonry heater.
(c)
Applicability
This Act applies during the 8-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
(d)
Requirements
(1)
Numeric emission limits
During the period specified in subsection (c), in finalizing or issuing any rule described in
subsection (b), the Administrator may not establish a particulate matter
emissions limit—
(A)
for adjustable rate wood heaters or pellet heaters/stoves that were, on or before the effective
date of the rule, certified as being in compliance with any applicable
standard of performance for particulate matter, that is less than 4.5
grams of particulate matter per hour;
(B)
for all other adjustable rate wood heaters, single burn rate wood heaters, or pellet
heaters/stoves, that is less than 4.5 grams of particulate matter per
hour;
(C)
for any residential hydronic heater, that is less than 0.32 pound per million British thermal unit
heat output as measured under ASTM E2618–13
Standard Test Method for Measurement of Particulate Emissions and Heating Efficiency of Solid
Fuel-Fired Hydronic Heating Appliances
using either cordwood or cribs; or
(D)
for any forced-air furnace, that is less than 0.93 pound per million British thermal unit heat
output.
(2)
Transition period
During the period specified in subsection (c), in finalizing or issuing any rule described in
subsection (b), the Administrator shall—
(A)
with respect to a residential wood heater that was certified on or before the effective date of the
rule by the Administrator as in compliance with any applicable emissions
limit in effect prior to the date of enactment of this Act—
(i)
provide that such certification shall remain valid until the date that is five years after such
heater was certified; and
(ii)
permit any such heater to be manufactured and sold at retail until the date that is five years
after such heater was certified;
(B)
with respect to a forced-air furnace—
(i)
except as provided in clause (ii)—
(I)
that is manufactured on or before the effective date of such rule, permit such forced-air furnace
to be sold at retail for a period of at least one year after such
effective date; or
(II)
that is manufactured after the effective date of such rule, not require such forced-air furnace to
meet any applicable particulate matter emissions limit set forth in such
rule until the date that is at least one year after such effective date;
or
(ii)
that was tested under Canadian Standards Administration B415.1–10 test protocol on or before the
effective date of the rule and met a particulate matter emissions limit of
0.93 pound per million British thermal unit heat output, permit such
forced-air furnace to be manufactured and sold at retail for a period of
five years after such effective date; and
(C)
with respect to a hydronic heater that—
(i)
is a qualified model, deem such hydronic heater to be certified as in compliance with any otherwise
applicable emissions limit under such rule for the duration of the period
it would be considered a qualified model, but in no case for a period of
less than 3 years beginning on the effective date of such rule; or
(ii)
is not a qualified model and that is manufactured on or before the effective date of such rule,
permit such hydronic heater to be sold at retail for a period of at least
one year after such effective date.
(3)
Certification procedures
(A)
Independent Accredited Third Party Testing and Certification
During the period specified in subsection (c), in finalizing or issuing any rule described in
subsection (b), the Administrator shall provide that certifications of
compliance with any applicable emissions limit under such rule be issued
by independent third party laboratories accredited as certification bodies
under ISO/IEC 17065, based on testing performed by the certification body
or another laboratory accredited under ISO/IEC 17025 to perform
certification testing.
(B)
Limited role of EPA
During the period specified in subsection (c), in finalizing or issuing any rule described in
subsection (b), the Administrator shall provide that the Environmental
Protection Agency’s role in any certification or auditing process provided
in such rule shall be limited to conducting selective audits of the
testing, certification, and quality assurance/quality control functions
performed by certification bodies or test laboratories that are accredited
by the ISO.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
ISO
The term
ISO
means the International Organization for Standardization.
(3)
ISO/IEC 17025
The term
ISO/IEC 17025
means the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission
standard number 17025.
(4)
ISO/IEC 17065
The term
ISO/IEC 17065
means the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission
standard number 17065.
(5)
New source
The term
new source
has the meaning given such term in section 111(a)(2) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411(a)(2)
).
(6)
Standard of performance
The term
standard of performance
has the meaning given such term in section 111(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7411(a)(1)
).
(7)
Qualified model
The term
qualified model
means, with respect to a hydronic heater, a model that had been shown to meet performance levels
established by the Administrator under a voluntary partnership program in
effect prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
