1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clear the Air with Congress Act of 2014
.
2.
National ambient air quality standards for ozone
(a)
Report to Congress prior To proposing new standard
Not less than 180 days before issuance of any rule proposing a new or revised national primary or
secondary ambient air quality standard for ozone under section 109 of the
Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7409
), the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency shall submit to Congress and make publically available a
report that contains each of the following:
(1)
The standard (in parts per million) to be proposed.
(2)
All scientific and technical data relied upon to support the proposed standard in a manner that is
sufficient for independent analysis and substantial reproduction of
results.
(3)
A description of all technologies and strategies that may be utilized to achieve the standard and
the direct and indirect costs of such technologies and strategies.
(4)
An economic impact analysis that estimates the total costs of the standard, including—
(A)
the impact to gross domestic product and employment by State;
(B)
the cost of wholesale and retail electricity by State; and
(C)
total compliance costs by State.
(5)
A list of each area of the United States, including each county, that would be in nonattainment
under the standard.
(6)
An identification of the level of ground level ozone in each county of the United States that is
naturally occurring or produced outside of the United States.
(b)
Consideration of economic and technological feasibility
In establishing a national primary or secondary ambient air quality standard for ozone under
section 109 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7409
), the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency shall take into consideration the cost
and economic and technological feasibility of attaining such standard.
(c)
Approval by law of national ambient air quality standards for ozone
A national primary or secondary ambient air quality standard for ozone under section 109 of the
Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7409
) shall not take effect unless a Federal
statute is enacted approving such standard.
