1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Healthcare Subsidies for Foreign Diplomats Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
) (in this section referred to as
the “Affordable Care Act”) established certain taxpayer-funded subsidies,
such as premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions, that directly or
indirectly pay portions of the costs of health insurance and services for
eligible individuals and households.
(2)
Diplomats of foreign governments and United Nations staff members who are not citizens or lawful
permanent residents of the United States do not pay Federal income taxes
on their salaries from those employers.
(3)
The Department of State has notified foreign missions in the United States, permanent missions to
the United Nations, and the United Nations Secretariat that
the benefits of the United States Affordable Care Act are available
to their personnel.
(4)
According to the Department of Health and Human Services and the Congressional Research Service,
foreign diplomats and United Nations employees in the United States are
currently eligible to obtain United States taxpayer-funded subsidies under
the Affordable Care Act, such as premium tax credits and cost-sharing
reductions, on the same basis as American citizens and lawful permanent
residents.
(5)
United States diplomats overseas do not depend on foreign taxpayers for health care coverage, but
rely on United States-based health insurance plans that provide overseas
coverage.
(6)
The Department of Health and Human Services does not currently collect data that would allow it to
identify any foreign diplomats who are enrolled in a qualified health plan
and who may be receiving premium tax credits or cost-sharing reductions
pursuant to the Affordable Care Act.
(7)
The Department of State also does not possess that data, and has asserted that it is not involved
in whatever processes foreign diplomats may use to obtain benefits funded
by the United States Government.
(8)
The Internal Revenue Service does not collect visa information and is not currently able to discern
whether any taxpayer is present in the United States pursuant to an A
(diplomatic) or a G (UN/international organization) nonimmigrant visa.
(9)
The Internal Revenue Service also does not collect data identifying whether a foreign diplomat is
enrolled in a qualified health plan and is receiving a premium tax credit
or cost-sharing reduction pursuant to the Affordable Care Act.
3.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
foreign diplomats should be allowed to purchase health insurance coverage in the United States, but
the cost of that coverage should be borne by their sending States; and
(2)
United States taxpayers should not subsidize the health insurance expenses of foreign diplomats.
4.
Foreign diplomats ineligible to receive health insurance premium tax credits and health insurance
cost-sharing reductions
(a)
Denial of eligibility
(1)
For health insurance premium tax credits
Section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
(g)
Denial of credit to foreign diplomats
(1)
In general
No credit shall be allowed under this section to any individual for any month during any portion of
which such individual is a foreign diplomat.
(2)
Foreign diplomat
For purposes of this subsection, the term
foreign diplomat
means an alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(A) or
section 101(a)(15)(G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
.
(2)
For cost-sharing reductions
For denial of cost sharing reductions to individuals ineligible for the premium tax credit under
section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, see section 1402(f)(2)
of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18071(f)(2)
).
(3)
Effective date
The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply to foreign diplomats for months beginning more than
30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, in taxable years
ending after such date, regardless of whether the diplomat may have been
determined eligible for a premium tax credit or cost-sharing reduction (or
advance payment with respect to such credit or reduction) before such date
of enactment.
(4)
Information coordination for timely implementation
The Secretary of State shall coordinate with, and provide such information to, the Secretaries of
Homeland Security and of Health and Human Services regarding individuals
in the status of a foreign diplomat (described in section 36B(g)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as inserted by paragraph (1)) as may be
necessary—
(A)
to apply the amendment made by paragraph (1) and the provisions of paragraph (2) on a timely
process, including applying such amendment in the case of an individual
who has been determined eligible for a premium tax credit or cost-sharing
reduction (or an advance payment thereof) before the date of the enactment
of this Act; and
(B)
to provide information to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the reports to Congress
under subsection (b)(1).
(b)
Reports to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter,
subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress (as defined in paragraph
(2)) a written report on the implementation of this section. Each such
report shall include—
(A)
the number of foreign diplomats listed in the information received by such Secretary under
subsection (a)(4)(B) with respect to whom an advance determination of
eligibility was still in effect under section 1412 of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18082
) as of the most recent
date of the receipt of such information by such Secretary; and
(B)
the number of such advance determinations which were revoked at the time of the submission of such
written report to Congress.
(2)
Appropriate committees of Congress
For purposes of this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the Committees on Foreign Relations, Finance, and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Ways and Means, and
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
(3)
Termination
No report shall be required to be submitted under this subsection after the second consecutive
report in which the number required to be included in such report under
paragraph (1)(A) is zero.
(c)
Notice to governments and international organizations
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall
notify all foreign missions in the United States, permanent missions to
the United Nations, and the United Nations Secretariat, that premium tax
credits under
section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and
cost-sharing reductions under section 1402 of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act are not available to any of their personnel who have
the
status in the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(A)
or 101(a)(15)(G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(A), 1101(a)(15)(G)).
