1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Qods Force Terrorist Designation
Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
On January 19, 1984, the Secretary of State
determined that the Islamic Republic of Iran is a state sponsor of
terrorism.
(2)
The Qods Force is
the elite external operations branch of the Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps and the Iranian regime’s primary mechanism for cultivating and supporting
terrorists abroad.
(3)
The Qods Force
provides aid in the form of weapons, training, and funding to Hamas and other
Palestinian terrorist groups, Lebanese Hizballah, Iraq-based militants, and
Taliban fighters in Afghanistan.
(4)
The Qods Force is
behind some of the deadliest terrorist attacks of the past three decades,
including the 1983 and 1984 bombings of the United States Embassy and annex in
Beirut, the 1983 bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut, the 1992 bombing of
the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, 1994 attack on the AMIA Jewish Community
Center in Buenos Aires, and the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi
Arabia.
(5)
In 2007, President
George W. Bush and General David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq,
accused Iran’s Qods Force of aiding militias in killing American soldiers in
Iraq.
(6)
In 2007, the U.S.
Department of the Treasury designated the Qods Force for providing material
support to the Taliban and other terrorist organizations.
(7)
On October 25, 2007, Iran’s Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps Qods Force was sanctioned under Executive Order
13382, for supporting proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
(8)
Section 1258 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 expressed the sense
of Congress that
the United States should designate Iran's Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist organization under section
219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
) and place the
Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps on the list of Specially Designated Global
Terrorists, as established under the International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
) and initiated under Executive Order 13224
(September 23, 2001)
.
(9)
In the period following the June 2009
presidential election in Iran, the Qods Force was implicated in custodial
deaths and the killings of election protesters and committed other acts of
politically motivated violence, including torture, beatings, and rape.
(10)
On April 29,
2011, President Obama issued Executive Order 13572, Blocking Property of
Certain Persons With Respect to Human Rights Abuses in Syria, including the
Qods Force, for the repression of the people of Syria, manifested most recently
by the use of violence and torture against, and arbitrary arrests and
detentions of, peaceful protestors by police, security forces, and other
entities that have engaged in human rights abuses, which constitute an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy
of the United States.
(11)
On October 11,
2011, the U.S. Department of Justice announced that two members of Iran’s Qods
Force were charged in an alleged plot to assassinate the Saudi Arabian
Ambassador to the Unites States. The criminal complaint against them included
charges of conspiracy to murder a foreign official; conspiracy to engage in
foreign travel and use of interstate and foreign commerce facilities in the
commission of murder-for-hire; conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction
(explosives); and conspiracy to commit an act of international terrorism
transcending national boundaries.
(12)
On March 7, 2012,
the U.S. Department of the Treasury designated Iran’s Qods Force General
Gholamreza Baghbani as a Specially Designated Narcotics Trafficker for the role
that the Qods Force played in its scheme to support terrorism.
(13)
Iran’s Qods Force
stations operatives in foreign embassies, charities, and religious and cultural
institutions to foster relationships, often building on existing socio-economic
ties with the well-established Shia Diaspora, and recent years have witnessed
an increased presence in Latin America.
3.
Designation of Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Qods Force as a foreign terrorist
organization
The Secretary of
State shall designate Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Qods Force as a
foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
4.
Report
The Secretary of State shall submit to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on terrorist activities of Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Qods Force.
