1.
Responsibilities of the
Directors of Veterans’ Employment and Training
Section 4103
of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(2)
by inserting after
subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Responsibilities
Each Director and Assistant Director
assigned to a State under subsection (a) shall carry out the following
responsibilities:
(1)
Monitoring the performance of veterans’
training and employment programs in the State, with special emphasis on
services to disabled veterans.
(2)
Monitoring the
performance of the State workforce agency in complying with section 4212 of
this title.
(3)
Suggesting to the Assistant Secretary of
Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training corrective actions that could be
taken by the State workforce agency to address deficiencies in the performance
of veterans’ training and employment programs in the State.
(4)
Annually
negotiating with the State workforce agency to establish performance goals for
veterans’ training and employment programs in the State.
(5)
Reviewing the
State’s requests for funding for veterans’ training and employment programs and
providing advice to the State workforce agency and the Assistant Secretary
regarding such funding requests.
(6)
Conducting
outreach to inform employers in the State regarding their rights and
responsibilities under chapter 43 of this title and of veterans preferences and
Federal contractors’ and subcontractors’ affirmative action programs to hire
veterans.
(7)
Managing programs
to administer and investigate chapter 43 of this title, veterans preferences
under Federal and State laws, and federal contractors’ and subcontractors’
affirmative action programs to hire veterans.
(8)
Forwarding
complaints regarding possible violations of chapter 43 of this title to the
appropriate Regional Administrator or to the to the Assistant Secretary, as
required.
(9)
Other duties as
assigned by the Assistant Secretary as directed.
(10)
Carrying out
grant officer technical representative responsibilities for grants issued under
programs administered by the Department.
(11)
Providing advice
to the State workforce agency on strategies to market veterans to employers.
(12)
Supervising and
managing all support staff, including Assistant Directors, establishing
workload priorities, managing all personnel actions, and evaluating all
assigned personnel.
(13)
Submitting to the Assistant Secretary
regular reports on the matters described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (10),
and any other matters the Director or Assistant Secretary determine
appropriate.
(14)
Performing such
other related duties as directed by the Assistant
Secretary.
.
