1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Facility Accountability Act of 2013
.
2.
Federal facilities
(a)
Application to Federal Government
Section 120(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9620(a)
) is amended in the heading by striking
of Act
.
(b)
Application of requirements to Federal facilities
Section 120(a)(2) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9620(a)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
preliminary assessments
and inserting
response actions
;
(2)
by inserting
or
after
National Contingency Plan,
;
(3)
by striking
, or applicable to remedial actions at such facilities
; and
(4)
by inserting
or have been
before
owned or operated
.
(c)
Applicability of laws
Section 120(a)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9620(a)(4)
) is amended to read as follows:
(4)
Applicability of laws
(A)
In general
Each department, agency, and instrumentality of the United States shall be subject to, and comply with, at facilities that are or have been owned or operated by any such department, agency, or instrumentality, State substantive and procedural requirements regarding response relating to hazardous substances or pollutants or contaminants, including State hazardous waste requirements, in the same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity.
(B)
Compliance
(i)
In general
The United States hereby expressly waives any immunity otherwise applicable to the United States with respect to any State substantive or procedural requirement referred to in subparagraph (A).
(ii)
Injunctive relief
Neither the United States, nor any agent, employee, nor officer thereof, shall be immune or exempt from any process or sanction of any State or Federal Court with respect to the enforcement of any injunctive relief under subparagraph (C)(ii).
(iii)
Civil penalties
No agent, employee, or officer of the United States shall be personally liable for any civil penalty under any State substantive or procedural requirement referred to in subparagraph (A), or this Act, with respect to any act or omission within the scope of the official duties of the agent, employee, or officer.
(iv)
Criminal sanctions
An agent, employee, or officer of the United States shall be subject to any criminal sanction (including any fine or imprisonment) under any State substantive or procedural requirement referred to in subparagraph (A), or this Act, but no department, agency, or instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government shall be subject to any such sanction.
(C)
Substantive and procedural requirements
The State substantive and procedural requirements referred to in subparagraph (A) include—
(i)
administrative orders;
(ii)
injunctive relief;
(iii)
civil and administrative penalties and fines, regardless of whether such penalties or fines are punitive or coercive in nature or are imposed for isolated, intermittent, or continuing violations;
(iv)
reasonable service charges or oversight costs; and
(v)
laws or regulations requiring the imposition and maintenance of engineering or land use controls.
(D)
Reasonable service charges or oversight costs
The reasonable service charges or oversight costs referred to in subparagraph (C) include fees or charges assessed in connection with—
(i)
the processing, issuance, renewal, or modification of permits;
(ii)
the review of plans, reports, studies, and other documents;
(iii)
attorney’s fees;
(iv)
inspection and monitoring of facilities or vessels; and
(v)
any other nondiscriminatory charges that are assessed in connection with a State requirement regarding response relating to hazardous substances or pollutants or contaminants.
.
3.
Authority to delegate, issue regulations
Section 115 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9615
) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
If the President delegates or assigns any duties or powers under this section to a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States other than the Administrator, the Administrator may review, as the Administrator determines necessary or upon request of any State, actions taken, or regulations promulgated, pursuant to such delegation or assignment, for purposes of ensuring consistency with the guidelines, rules, regulations, or criteria established by the Administrator under this title.
.
