1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flood Insurance Premium Parity Act of 2014
.
2.
Repeal of certain rate increases
(a)
Repeal of prohibition on subsidized rates
Paragraph (2) of section 1307(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 4014
) is
amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)—
(A)
by striking
which is not
and inserting
that is neither
; and
(B)
by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
nor the secondary residence of the owner of the property, and the Administrator shall establish
standards for a residential property to qualify for purposes of this
subparagraph as a secondary residence that shall (A) require the owner of
the property to occupy the property for a minimum period of time each
year, as the Administrator determines appropriate, and (B) provide that
only a single property of any owner may so qualify
;
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by inserting
or
after the semicolon at the end;
(3)
by striking subparagraph (D); and
(4)
by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D).
(b)
Conforming amendments relating to limitation on annual rate increases
Paragraph (4) of section 1308(e) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4015(e)(4)), as amended by section 5 of
Public Law 113–89
, is amended by
striking
(A) through (E)
and inserting
(A) through (D)
.
(c)
Implementation
(1)
Effective date
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (in this subsection referred to as the
Administrator
) shall make available such rate tables, as necessary to implement the amendments made by
subsections (a) and (b) as if such subsections were enacted as part of the
Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (
Public Law 112–141
; 126
Stat. 957).
(2)
Implementation, coordination, and guidance
(A)
Facilitation of timely refunds
To ensure the participation of Write Your Own companies (as such term is defined in section
100202(a) of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (42
U.S.C. 4004(a)), the Administrator and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency shall consult with Write Your Own companies throughout the
development of guidance and rate tables necessary to implement the
amendments made by subsections (a) and (b).
(B)
Implementation and guidance
The Administrator shall issue final guidance and rate tables necessary to implement the amendments
made by subsections (a) and (b) not later than eight months following the
date of the enactment of this Act. Write Your Own companies, in
coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall have not
less than six months but not more than eight months following the issuance
of such final guidance and rate tables to implement the changes required
by such final guidance and rate tables.
(C)
Refund of excess premium charges collected
The Administrator shall refund directly to insureds any premiums for flood insurance coverage under
the National Flood Insurance Program collected in excess of the rates
required under the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b). To allow
for necessary and appropriate implementation of such amendments, any
premium changes necessary to implement such amendments, including any such
premium refund due to policy holders, which shall be paid directly by the
National Flood Insurance Program, shall not be charged or paid to
policyholders by the National Flood Insurance Program until after the
Administrator issues guidance and makes available such rate tables to
implement the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b).
