1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FTO Reform Act of 2014
.
2.
Department of State and Department of Homeland Security collaboration
(a)
Designation
Section 219(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (3)—
(A)
by inserting
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs,
before
and Foreign Relations of the Senate
; and
(B)
by striking
and International Relations of the House of Representatives
and inserting
Homeland Security, and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
; and
(2)
in paragraph (4), by inserting after
Secretary of the Treasury
the following:
, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
.
(b)
Consultation
Section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
, in accordance with subsection (d),
after
The Secretary
;
(2)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
(d)
Consultation
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, as soon as practicable, transmit to the Secretary the recommendations of the Secretary of Homeland Security to the Secretary of State regarding the designation under this section of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization, including an assessment of the threat to national security due to terrorist activity or terrorism carried out by the organization under review.
.
(c)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs a report on the the following:
(1)
The activities of the Department of Homeland Security relating to Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) designations, and an accounting of the effects each such designation has on the Department’s operations.
(2)
The number of individuals denied entry into the United States due to their support for an FTO and an identification of such FTOs.
(3)
The number of individuals removed from the United States due to their support for an FTO and an identification of such FTOs.
(4)
A list of all revocations of otherwise ineligible nonimigrant visas considered by the Department of Homeland Security.
(5)
A list of all individuals with respect to whom a revocation was granted, their associations with an FTO, and an identification of such FTOs.
