1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans Act
.
2.
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 74
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section
7405 the following new section:
7405A.
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall seek to use the authority under section 7405 of this title to employ physicians
on a without compensation basis in any practice area or speciality for
which—
(1)
the average waiting time for veterans seeking an appointment with a physician in such practice area
or specialty exceeds the waiting time goals established by the Department;
or
(2)
the Department facility where the physician will be employed has demonstrated staffing shortages,
as determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Volunteer coordinators
There shall be in each medical facility of the Department a volunteer coordinator. The volunteer
coordinator for a medical facility shall—
(1)
seek to establish relationships with medical associations serving the area where the facility is
located;
(2)
recruit physicians for employment on a without compensation basis in the facility; and
(3)
serve as the initial point of contact for physicians seeking employment on a without compensation
basis in the facility.
(c)
Qualifications
A physician employed on a without compensation basis shall agree, as a condition of being granted a
credential or privilege to practice medicine in a facility of the
Department, to commit to serving a minimum of 40 hours in the facility
during the 12-month period beginning on the date on which such credential
or privilege is granted.
(d)
Credentialing process
(1)
The Secretary shall ensure that each physician who seeks employment at the Department on a without
compensation basis receives a credential or privilege to practice medicine
in the Department, or a decision that such a credential or privilege will
not be granted, by not later than 60 days after the date on which the
physician requests such credential or privilege.
(2)
The director of a medical facility of the Department shall approve, and accept the services of, any
physician who meets the qualifications under subsection (c) and receives a
credential or privilege to practice medicine in the facility under
paragraph (1).
(e)
Annual report
Not later than March 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of
Representatives a report on physicians employed on a without compensation
basis at the Department. Each such report shall include, for the year
preceding the year during which the report is submitted, each of the
following:
(1)
The number of physicians employed on a without compensation basis by the Department in each of the
Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
(2)
Information about staffing levels and appointment waiting times for facilities located in each such
Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 7405 the following new item:
7405A. Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program.
.
