1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Resort Cities from
Discrimination Act of 2013
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following
findings:
(1)
Tourism, including
conventions and meetings, is an important part of the United States economy
that generates billions of dollars in tax revenues for many localities.
(2)
Analysts estimate
that approximately 90 percent of employers in the travel industry are small
businesses and more than 12 percent of United States employees are employed by
the travel industry.
(3)
Many local
economies around the country have developed into destinations for vacationers
and conventioneers alike, and those local economies depend on the travel
industry to support local employment, create new jobs, and generate tax
revenues for critical public services.
(4)
These same
destinations are home to large and small businesses that have unique skills,
amenities, and resources for planning and facilitating meetings and conventions
for all purposes and, consequently, may deliver value and convenience for
individuals and organizations in need of a location for an official
event.
(5)
Locating an
official event in such a city frequently may save taxpayer dollars, as compared
to other locations.
(6)
Agencies and
departments of the United States have a responsibility to find ways to maximize
taxpayer dollars in conducting official business, including planning and
conducting official meetings attended by Federal employees.
(7)
In deciding where
to locate an official government meeting by applying this principle of
maximizing taxpayer dollars, government officials often will conclude that many
locations known as resort destinations also will provide the best value and
convenience for official meetings and business.
(8)
Resort and
vacation destination cities tend to be affected disproportionally during
economic downturns and, therefore, are especially vulnerable to discrimination
by meeting and convention planners, which could exacerbate unemployment and
related demands on United States taxpayers.
3.
Limitation on
certain travel and conference policies of agencies of the United
States
No agency or department
of the United States may establish or implement an internal policy regarding
travel, event, meeting, or conference locations that discourages or prohibits
the selection of such a location because the location is perceived to be a
resort or vacation destination.
