Section 1

.

 

. Lawyers and law firms that engage in activities detrimental to critical   interests should not have access to our  's secrets, nor should their conduct be subsidized by Federal taxpayer funds or contracts. My Administration must also take appropriate and necessary measures to guard against the actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest that arise when the   funds, engages with, or otherwise devotes resources to law firms and their clients that engage in conduct undermining critical   interests and priorities.

I have determined that action is necessary to address the significant risks, egregious conduct, and conflicts of interest associated with   ( ).   spearheads efforts to weaponize the   legal system and degrade the quality of   elections.   also funds groups that engage in dangerous efforts to undermine the effectiveness of   military through the injection of political and radical ideology, and it supports efforts to discriminate on the basis of race.

  itself engages in unlawful discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of race. For example,   administers a program where it offers financial awards and employment opportunities only to "students of color." My Administration is committed to ending such unlawful discrimination perpetrated in the name of "diversity, equity, and inclusion" policies and ensuring that   benefits support the laws and policies of  , including those laws and policies promoting our national security and respecting the democratic process. Those who engage in blatant discrimination and other activities inconsistent with the interests of   should not have access to our  's secrets nor be deemed responsible stewards of any Federal funds.

 . 2

.

Security Clearance Review

. (a) The Attorney General, the Director of  , and all other relevant heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall immediately take steps consistent with applicable law to suspend any active security clearances held by individuals at  , pending a review of whether such clearances are consistent with the national interest.

(b)   shall identify all Government goods, property, material, and services, including  , provided for the benefit of  . The heads of agencies providing such material or services shall, to the extent permitted by law, expeditiously cease such provision.

 . 3

.

Contracting

. (a) To prevent the transfer of taxpayer dollars to Federal contractors whose earnings subsidize, among other things, activities that are not aligned with   interests, including racial discrimination, Government contracting agencies shall, to the extent permissible by law, require Government contractors to disclose any business they do with   and whether that business is related to the subject of the   contract.

(b) The heads of agencies shall review all contracts with   or with entities that disclose doing business with   under subsection (a) of this section. To the extent permitted by law, the heads of agencies shall:

(i) take appropriate steps to terminate any contract, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, including  , for which   has been hired to perform any service; and

(ii) otherwise align their agency funding decisions with the interests of the citizens of  ; with the goals and priorities of my Administration as expressed in executive actions, especially Executive Order   (Ending the Weaponization of  ); and as heads of agencies deem appropriate. Within   of the date of this order, agencies shall submit to the Director of   an assessment of contracts with   or with entities that do business with   effective as of the date of this order and any actions taken with respect to those contracts in accordance with this order.

 . 4

.

Racial Discrimination

. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the action authorized by section 4 of Executive Order   of   (Addressing Risks from Perkins Coie LLP).

 . 5

.

Personnel

. (a) The heads of agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide guidance limiting official access from   buildings to employees of Susman when such access would threaten the national security of or otherwise be inconsistent with the interests of  . In addition, the heads of agencies shall provide guidance limiting Government employees acting in their official capacity from engaging with   employees to ensure consistency with the national security and other interests of  .

(b) Agency officials shall, to the extent permitted by law, refrain from hiring employees of  , absent a waiver from the head of the agency, made in consultation with the Director of  , that such hire will not threaten the national security of  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
