Section 1

.

Purpose

. In   of the   Presidential campaign, at least 51 former intelligence officials coordinated with the   campaign to issue a letter discrediting the reporting that President   son had abandoned his laptop at a computer repair business. Signatories of the letter falsely suggested that the news story was part of a   disinformation campaign.

Before being issued, the letter was sent to  , the body typically assigned to formally evaluate the sensitive nature of documents prior to publication. Senior   officials were made aware of the contents of the letter, and multiple signatories held clearances at the time and maintained ongoing contractual relationships with the  .

Federal policymakers must be able to rely on analysis conducted by   and be confident that it is accurate, crafted with professionalism, and free from politically motivated engineering to affect political outcomes in  . The signatories willfully weaponized the gravitas of   to manipulate the political process and undermine our democratic institutions. This fabrication of the imprimatur of   to suppress information essential to the   people during a Presidential election is an egregious breach of trust reminiscent of a third world country. And now the faith of   in all other patriotic intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect the   has been imperiled.

National security is also damaged by the publication of classified information. Former   Advisor   published a memoir for monetary gain after he was terminated from his   position in  . The book was rife with sensitive information drawn from his time in government. The memoir's reckless treatment of sensitive information undermined the ability of future presidents to request and obtain candid advice on matters of national security from their staff. Publication also created a grave risk that classified material was publicly exposed.

To remedy these abuses of the public trust, this   directs the revocation of any active or current security clearances held by: (i) the former intelligence officials who engaged in misleading and inappropriate political coordination with the     presidential campaign; and (ii)  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. (a) It is the policy of   to ensure that   not be engaged in partisan politics or otherwise used by a   political campaign for electioneering purposes. The term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given the term in section 3003 of title  , United States Code.

(b) It is the policy of   that individuals who hold government-issued security clearances should not use their clearance status to influence   elections.

(c) It is the policy of   that classified information not be publicly disclosed in memoirs, especially those published for personal monetary gain.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. (a) Effective immediately, the Director of  , in consultation with the Director of  , shall revoke any current or active clearances held by the following individuals:

(1)  

(2)  

(3)  

(4)  

(5)  

(6)  

(7)  

(8)  

(9)  

(10)  

(11)  

(12)  

(13)  

(14)  

(15)  

(16)  

(17)  

(18)  

(19)  

(20)  

(21)  

(22)  

(23)  

(24)  

(25)  

(26)  

(27)  

(28)  

(29)  

(30)  

(31)  

(32)  

(33)  

(34)  

(35)  

(36)  

(37)  

(38)    

(39)  

(40)  

(41)  

(42)  

(43)  

(44)  

(45)  

(46)  

(47)  

(48)  

(49)  

(50)  

Two signatories,   and  , are deceased.

(b) Within   of this order, the Director of  , in consultation with the Director of  , shall submit a report to the President through   that details:

(i) any additional inappropriate activity that occurred within  , by anyone contracted by   or by anyone who held a security clearance, related to the letter signed by the 51 former intelligence officials;

(ii) recommendations to prevent   or anyone who works for or within it from inappropriately influencing domestic elections; and

(iii) any disciplinary action—including the termination of security clearances—that should be taken against anyone who engaged in inappropriate conduct related to the letter signed by the 51 former intelligence officials.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
