Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. From the founding of our  , English has been used as our national language. Our Nation's historic governing documents, including the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, have all been written in English. It is therefore long past time that English is declared as the official language of  . A nationally designated language is at the core of a unified and cohesive society, and   is strengthened by a citizenry that can freely exchange ideas in one shared language.

In welcoming new  , a policy of encouraging the learning and adoption of our national language will make   a shared home and empower new citizens to achieve the   dream. Speaking English not only opens doors economically, but it helps newcomers engage in their communities, participate in national traditions, and give back to our society. This order recognizes and celebrates the long tradition of multilingual   citizens who have learned English and passed it to their children for generations to come.

To promote unity, cultivate a shared   culture for all citizens, ensure consistency in government operations, and create a pathway to civic engagement, it is in  's best interest for   to designate one—and only one—official language. Establishing English as the official language will not only streamline communication but also reinforce shared national values, and create a more cohesive and efficient society.

Accordingly, this order designates English as the official language of  .

 . 2

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) "Agency" has the meaning given to it in section   of title  , United States Code, except that such term does not include   of the President or any components thereof.

(b) "Agency Head" means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director, unless otherwise specified in this order.

 . 3

.

Designating an Official Language for the United States

. (a) English is the official language of  .

(b) Executive Order 13166 of   ( ), is hereby revoked; nothing in this order, however, requires or directs any change in the services provided by any agency.   heads should make decisions as they deem necessary to fulfill their respective agencies' mission and efficiently provide Government services to the   people. Agency heads are not required to amend, remove, or otherwise stop production of documents, products, or other services prepared or offered in languages other than English.

(c) The Attorney General shall rescind any policy guidance documents issued pursuant to Executive Order   and provide updated guidance, consistent with applicable law.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
