Section 1. Purpose and Policy. The right to vote in   elections is reserved exclusively for citizens of   under the Constitution and Federal law. Federal statutes explicitly prohibit non-citizens from registering to vote or voting in   elections and impose criminal penalties for violations. (18 U.S.C. 241; 18 U.S.C. 611; 18 U.S.C. 1015; and 52 U.S.C. 20511).   ( ) maintains records that, in conjunction with   ( ) Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements ( ) program under 42 U.S.C. 1320b-7, can assist in verifying identity and Federal election voter eligibility.

  has an unavoidable duty under Article II of the Constitution of   to enforce Federal law, which includes preventing violations of Federal criminal law and maintaining public confidence in election outcomes. To enhance election integrity via  , additional measures are necessary. Secure ballot envelope identifiers provide a reliable, auditable mechanism to enforce Federal law without unduly burdening or infringing on the rights of eligible voters. Unique ballot envelope identifiers, such as bar codes, enable confirmation that only citizens receive and cast ballots, reducing the risk of fraud and protecting the integrity of Federal elections.

 . 2. Establishment and  . (a) To the extent feasible and consistent with applicable law, including but not limited to the Privacy Act of   (5 U.S.C. 552a), the Secretary of  , through the Director of   and in coordination with the Commissioner of  , shall take appropriate action to compile and transmit to the chief election official of each   a list of individuals confirmed to be   citizens who will be above   at the time of an upcoming Federal election and who maintain a residence in the subject State (State Citizenship List).   shall be derived from Federal citizenship and naturalization records,   records,   data, and other relevant Federal databases.   shall be updated and transmitted to   election officials no fewer than 60 days before each regularly scheduled Federal election, or promptly upon request by a   in connection with any special Federal election. The Secretary of   shall establish procedures to (i) allow individuals to access their individual records as well as to update or correct them in advance of elections; and (ii) enable   to routinely supplement and provide suggested modifications or amendments to   transmitted thereto. An individual's identification on   does not indicate that the individual has been properly registered to vote in the  . State and Federal laws and   procedures must still be followed for an individual to be registered to vote. There may be State laws, not reflected in  , that preclude voter registration, or the individual may choose not to be registered.

(b) For purposes of this order, an individual is "eligible to vote in a Federal election" if the individual is a citizen of  ,   older by the date of the upcoming election, and otherwise qualified under the laws of his or her  . The Attorney General shall prioritize the investigation and, as appropriate, the prosecution of   and local officials or any others involved in the administration of   elections who issue Federal ballots to individuals not eligible to vote in a Federal election, including under 18 U.S.C. 2(a), 18 U.S.C. 241, 18 U.S.C. 371, 18 U.S.C. 611(a), 18 U.S.C.  , 18 U.S.C.  , 52 U.S.C.  , and 52 U.S.C.  . Similarly, the Attorney General shall prioritize the investigation and, as appropriate, the prosecution of individuals and public or private entities engaged in, or aiding and abetting, the printing, production, shipment, or distribution of ballots to individuals who are not eligible to vote in a Federal election.

 . 3.   and  . (a) The unlawful use of the mail in connection with elections is prohibited by various Federal statutes, including 18 U.S.C.  , 18 U.S.C.  , 52 U.S.C.  , and 52 U.S.C.  .

(b) To ensure the faithful execution of Federal law, protect the integrity of the mail as a medium for transmitting Federal election ballots and establish uniform standards for mail-in or absentee ballot services implemented through   ( ),   is hereby directed to initiate a proposed rulemaking pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 401 and other applicable authority within   of the date of this order. The notice of proposed rulemaking shall include, at minimum, the following:

(i) Proposed provisions specifying that all outbound ballot mail must be mailed in an envelope that:

(A) is marked as  , including through designated markings provided by   for this purpose, such as   logo, as necessary and appropriate;

(B) is automation-compatible and bears a unique   barcode, or successor   technology, that facilitates tracking and is consistent with the other requirements of this section; and

(C) has undergone a mail envelope design review by the   to ensure compliance with   mailing standards, including barcode placement.

(ii) Proposed provisions specifying that, no fewer than 90 days prior to a Federal election, any   may choose to notify the   if it intends to allow for mail-in or absentee ballots to be transmitted by the  . As part of that notification, any notifying   should further indicate whether it intends to submit to the  , no fewer than 60 days before the election, a list of voters eligible to vote in a Federal election in such   to whom the   intends to provide a mail-in or absentee ballot to be transmitted via the  .

(iii) Proposed provisions specifying that the   shall not transmit mail-in or absentee ballots from any individual unless those individuals have been enrolled on a  -specific list described in subsection (b)(iv) of this section with the   pursuant to this subsection.

(iv) Proposed provisions specifying that the   shall provide each   with a list of individuals (Mail-In and  ) who are enrolled with the  , pursuant to a process specified in the rulemaking directed by this subsection, for mail-in or absentee ballots provided by such  , along with unique ballot envelope identifiers, such as bar codes, for mail-in or absentee ballots provided to such individuals. The preparation and transmission of each  -specific Mail-In and   shall comply with the Privacy Act and all applicable use agreements.

(v) Proposed procedures enabling each   to routinely supplement and provide suggested modifications or amendments to the State's Mail-In and   in advance of any Federal election, consistent with applicable   law.

(c) The   shall coordinate with   and   for investigation of suspected unlawful use of the mail involving Federal election materials.

(d) Any final rule pursuant to this section shall be issued   from the date of this order.

 . 4. Implementation. (a) The Secretary of  , the Commissioner of  , and the Postmaster General shall coordinate with the Secretary of Commerce in effectuating all relevant aspects of the implementation of this order.

(b) The Attorney General shall enforce compliance with the applicable   statutes referenced herein and provide guidance to election officials, including any instrumentalities thereof; contractors; individuals involved in the administration of   elections; or public or private entities engaged in the printing, production, shipment, or distribution of ballots.

(c) The Secretary of   shall, within   of the date of this order, establish the infrastructure necessary to compile, maintain, and transmit   described in section 2(a) of this order, and shall designate a point of contact within   to receive and process requests from individuals and   election officials regarding the relevant State Citizenship List. The Commissioner of   shall provide all necessary citizenship and identity data to the Secretary of   in support of this requirement, consistent with applicable law, the Privacy Act, and all applicable use agreements.

 . 5. Enforcement. The Attorney General and the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) with relevant authority shall take all lawful steps to deter and address noncompliance with Federal law, including withholding Federal funds from noncompliant   and localities where such withholding is authorized by law. Evidence of violations of existing Federal laws by   or local election officials;   or localities, including any instrumentalities thereof; contractors; individuals involved in the administration of   elections; or public or private entities engaged in the printing, production, shipment, or distribution of ballots may be referred to   for consideration of investigation or charges under 18 U.S.C. 2(a), 18 U.S.C. 241, 18 U.S.C. 371, 18 U.S.C. 611(a), 18 U.S.C.  , 18 U.S.C.  , 52 U.S.C.  , and 52 U.S.C.  . States and localities should preserve, for a   period, all records and materials -- excluding ballots cast -- evidencing voter participation in any Federal election (e.g., ballot envelopes, regardless of carrier).

 . 6. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any agency, person, or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other agencies, persons, or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 7.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
