Section 1

.

Purpose

.   ( ) and   ( ) receive taxpayer funds through   (CPB). Unlike in  , when the   was established,   the media landscape is filled with abundant, diverse, and innovative news options. Government funding of news media in this environment is not only outdated and unnecessary but corrosive to the appearance of journalistic independence.

At the very least,   have the right to expect that if their tax dollars fund public broadcasting at all, they fund only fair, accurate, unbiased, and nonpartisan news coverage. No media outlet has a constitutional right to taxpayer subsidies, and the Government is entitled to determine which categories of activities to subsidize. The  's governing statute reflects principles of impartiality: the   may not "contribute to or otherwise support any political party." 47 U.S.C. 396(f)(3);

see also id

. 396(e)(2).

The   fails to abide by these principles to the extent it subsidizes   and  . Which viewpoints   and   promote does not matter. What does matter is that neither entity presents a fair, accurate, or unbiased portrayal of current events to taxpaying citizens.

I therefore instruct   ( ) and all executive departments and agencies (agencies) to cease   funding for   and  .

 . 2

.

Instructions to  . (a) The   shall cease direct funding to   and  , consistent with my  's policy to ensure that   funding does not support biased and partisan news coverage. The   shall cancel existing direct funding to the maximum extent allowed by law and shall decline to provide future funding.

(b) The   shall cease indirect funding to   and  , including by ensuring that licensees and permittees of public radio and television stations, as well as any other recipients of   funds, do not use Federal funds for   and  . To effectuate this directive, the   shall, before  , revise the 2025   and the     and Eligibility Criteria to prohibit direct or indirect funding of   and  . To the extent permitted by the 2024   and Eligibility Criteria, the 2024   and Eligibility Criteria, and applicable law, the   shall also prohibit parties subject to these provisions from funding   or   after the date of this order. In addition, the   shall take all other necessary steps to minimize or eliminate its indirect funding of   and  .

 . 3

.

Instructions to Other Agencies

. (a) The heads of all agencies shall identify and terminate, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, any direct or indirect funding of   and  .

(b) After taking the actions specified in subsection (a) of this section, the heads of all agencies shall identify any remaining grants, contracts, or other funding instruments entered into with   or   and shall determine whether   and   are in compliance with the terms of those instruments. In the event of a finding of noncompliance, the head of the relevant agency shall take appropriate steps under the terms of the instrument.

(c) The Secretary of   shall determine whether "  and   (or any successor organization)" are complying with the statutory mandate that "no person shall be subjected to discrimination in employment . . . on the grounds of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex." 47 U.S.C. 397(15), 398(b). In the event of a finding of noncompliance, the Secretary of   shall take appropriate corrective action.

 . 4

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any agency, person, or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other agencies, persons, or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
