Section 1. There is established, in  , a Presidential advisory committee entitled the "President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities" (Board). The   shall prepare and issue an   report to the President on the results of the participation of historically black colleges and universities in Federal programs. The   also shall provide advice to the President and to the Secretary of   (Secretary) regarding the needs of historically black colleges and universities in the areas of infrastructure, academic programs, and faculty and institutional development. In the   report to the President, the   shall make recommendations on how to increase the private sector role, including the role of private foundations, in strengthening historically black colleges and universities. Particular emphasis should also be given in the report to enhancing institutional planning and development, strengthening fiscal stability and financial management, and improving institutional infrastructure, including the use of technology, to ensure the long-term viability and enhancement of these institutions.

 . 2. The   shall be appointed by the President. The   membership shall include sitting presidents of historically black colleges and universities, representatives of other higher education institutions, business and financial leaders, representatives of private foundations, and secondary school administrators. The President shall designate a Chair or Co-Chairs from among the members.

 . 3.   Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (Initiative), located in    , shall: (1) provide staff, resources, and assistance to the  ; (2) assist the Secretary in performing the liaison function between the executive branch and historically black colleges and universities; and (3) serve the Secretary in carrying out the responsibilities described in section 6 of this order.

 . 4. To carry out this order, each executive department and agency identified by the Secretary may, consistent with applicable law and regulations, enter into appropriate grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with historically black colleges and universities. The head of each department or agency so identified shall establish an   plan that will establish clear goals for how the department or agency intends to increase the capacity of historically black colleges and universities to compete effectively for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements and to encourage historically black colleges and universities to participate in Federal programs. The department's or agency's   goal should be clearly reflected in the department's or agency's   budget submission to  . To facilitate the attainment of these goals, the head of each department or agency identified by the Secretary shall provide, as appropriate, technical assistance and information to historically black colleges and universities regarding the program activities of the department or agency and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements.

 . 5. Each executive department and agency identified by the Secretary shall appoint a senior official, who is a full-time officer of  , to report directly to the department or agency head with respect to department or agency activity under this order, and to serve as liaison to the   and to the  . To the extent permitted by law and regulations, each executive department and agency identified by the Secretary shall provide appropriate information requested by the   and staff pursuant to the order.

 . 6. Each executive department and agency identified by the Secretary shall develop an   plan for, and shall document the agency's effort in, increasing the capacity of historically black colleges and universities to participate in Federal programs. Each department's and agency's plan shall describe new or existing department and agency programs and measurable objectives for proposed department and agency actions, in connection with those programs, to achieve the purposes of this order. These plans shall be submitted at such time and in such form as the Secretary shall require. In consultation

with the participating departments and agencies, the Secretary shall review the plans and develop, with the advice of the Board, an integrated   Federal Plan for Assistance to Historically Black Colleges and Universities for submission to the President. The Secretary shall provide the president of each historically black college and university with a copy of, and an opportunity to comment on, the proposed   Federal Plan prior to its submission to the President. Each participating department and agency shall submit to the Secretary an Annual Performance Report that shall measure each department's and agency's performance against the objectives set forth in the department's or agency's   plan. The Secretary shall be responsible for monitoring compliance with   Federal Plan after it is approved by the President.

 . 7. In developing its   plan, each executive department and agency identified by the Secretary shall emphasize programs and activities that develop the capacity of historically black colleges and universities to contribute to the development of human capital and to strengthen  's economic and technological base through: (1) infrastructure development and acquisitions for instruction and research; (2) student and faculty doctoral fellowships and faculty development; (3) domestic and international faculty and student exchanges and study-abroad opportunities; (4) undergraduate and graduate student internships; and ( , parttime, and permanent employment opportunities.

 . 8.  , the   shall report to the President on the progress achieved in enhancing the capacity of historically black colleges and universities to serve their students, including findings and recommendations for individual departments and agencies in connection with their   Performance Reports, as described in section 6 of this order.

 . 9. The Board, in consultation with   and other executive departments and agencies, shall develop a Private Sector Strategy to assist historically black colleges and universities in: (1) increasing voluntary private-sector contributions to support the enhancement of endowments and the overall financial stability of such institutions; (2) improving and enhancing the quality and number of private-sector partnerships focused on academic program development, student achievement and faculty development, cooperative research and development projects, and faculty exchanges; and (3) improving information management, and facilities, and strengthening academic course offerings.

 . 10. (a) The provisions in this Executive Order shall be implemented to the fullest extent permitted by law.

(b)

  shall provide funding and administrative support for the   and the  .

(c)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for all travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law;

(d)

Insofar as  , as amended, may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 of that Act, shall be performed by  , in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 11. Executive Order  , as amended, is hereby revoked.
