Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3) and (4)),   of   (title IX, Public Law 106-387), or regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: persons determined by the Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , to be responsible for, to have engaged in, to have facilitated, or to have secured improper advantage as a result of, public corruption by senior officials within  .

(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, (i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person designated pursuant to this order, and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 2. Section 3(a)(iv) of Executive Order 13338 is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(iv)to be or to have been responsible for or otherwise significantly contributing to actions taken or decisions made by   that have the purpose or effect of undermining efforts to stabilize   or of allowing the use of   territory or facilities to undermine efforts to stabilize  ; or".

 . 3. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means any individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of, persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order   of  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that, because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order   and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 7. The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  , consistent with applicable law. All executive agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken.

 . 8. Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued effectiveness of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action issued, taken, or continued in effect heretofore or hereafter     chapter V, except as expressly terminated, modified, or suspended by or pursuant to this order.

 . 9. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
