Section 1. Establishment of  . There is hereby established within   an Office of Global Communications ( ") to be headed by a Deputy Assistant to the President for  .

 . 2. Mission. The mission of the Office shall be to advise the President, the heads of appropriate offices within   of the President, and the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) on utilization of the most effective means for   to ensure consistency in messages that will promote the interests of   abroad, prevent misunderstanding, build support for and among coalition partners of  , and inform international audiences. The Office shall provide such advice on activities in which the role of   is apparent or publicly acknowledged.

 . 3. Functions. In carrying out its mission:

(a)

The Office shall assess the methods and strategies used by   (other than special activities as defined in Executive Order   of  ) to deliver information to audiences abroad. The Office shall coordinate the formulation among appropriate agencies of messages that reflect the strategic communications framework and priorities of  , and shall facilitate the development of a strategy among the appropriate agencies to effectively communicate such messages.

(b)

The Office shall work with the policy and communications offices of agencies in developing a strategy for disseminating truthful, accurate, and effective messages about  , its   and policies, and the   people and culture. The   may, after consulting with   and obtaining the approval of the Assistant to the President for   on the President's behalf, work with cooperating foreign governments in the development of the strategy. In performing its work, the   shall coordinate closely and regularly with the Assistant to the President for  , or the Assistant's designee.

(c)

The Office shall work with appropriate agencies to coordinate the creation of temporary teams of communicators for shortterm placement in areas of high global interest and media attention as determined by  . Team members shall include personnel from agencies to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of personnel. In performing its functions, each information team shall work to disseminate accurate and timely information about topics of interest to the on-site news media, and assist media personnel in obtaining access to information, individuals, and events that reinforce the strategic communications objectives of   and its allies. The Office shall coordinate when and where information teams should be deployed; provided, however, no information team shall be

deployed abroad without prior consultation with   and  , and prior notification to   to the President for  .

(d) The Office shall encourage the use of state-of-the-art media and technology and shall advise   of events, technologies, and other communications tools that may be available for use in conveying information.

 . 4. Administration.   within   of the President shall provide the Office with administrative and related support, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, as directed by the Chief of Staff to the President to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5. Relationship to Other Interagency Coordinating Mechanisms. Presidential direction regarding   mechanisms for coordination of national security policy shall apply with respect to the Office in the same manner as it applies with respect to other elements of  . Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect any function assigned by law or by the President to   or to the Assistant to the President for  .

 . 6.  . This order does not alter the existing authorities of any agency. Agencies shall assist the Deputy Assistant to the President for  , to the extent consistent with applicable law and direction of the President, and to the extent such assistance is consistent with national security objectives and with the mission of such agencies, in carrying out the  's mission.

 . 7. General Provisions.

(a)

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by any party against  , its agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

(b)

Nothing in this order shall be construed to grant to the   any authority

to issue direction to agencies, officers, or employees.
