Section 1. Establishment of  . The Secretary of   shall establish within   for administrative purposes only an  ).

 . 2. Membership and  .

(a)   shall consist exclusively of the following members, or their designees who shall be officers of   appointed by the President or members of  :

(i)     the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(ii)     the Secretary of  ;

(iii)     the Secretary of the  ;

(iv)     the Attorney General;

(v)     the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi)     the Secretary of  ;

(vii)     the Secretary of  ;

(viii)     the Secretary of  ;

(ix)     the Director of  ;

(x)      ;

(xi)      ;

(xii)     the Chairman of  ; and

(xiii)     other officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  , as determined by the  , with the concurrence of the head of the department or agency concerned.

(b) The   shall convene and preside at meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The   may establish and direct subgroups of  , as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, that shall consist exclusively of members of  . The   shall designate an officer or employee of   to serve as the Executive Secretary of  . The Executive Secretary shall head any staff assigned to   and any subgroups thereof, and such staff shall consist exclusively of full-time or permanent part-time Federal employees.

 . 3. Mission of  . The mission of   shall be to identify actions and appropriate steps that can be pursued, within existing resources, to promote the safety of imported products, including the following:

(a) reviewing or assessing current procedures and methods aimed at ensuring the safety of products exported to  , including reviewing existing cooperation with foreign governments, foreign manufacturers, and others in the exporting country's private sector regarding their inspection and certification of exported goods and factories producing exported goods and considering whether additional initiatives should be undertaken with respect to exporting countries or companies;

(b) identifying potential means to promote all appropriate steps by   importers to enhance the safety of imported products, including identifying best practices by   importers in selection of foreign manufacturers, inspecting manufacturing facilities, inspecting goods produced on their behalf either before export or before distribution in  , identifying origin of products, and safeguarding the supply chain; and

(c) surveying authorities and practices of  , and local government agencies regarding the safety of imports to identify best practices and enhance coordination among agencies.

 . 4. Administration of  . The   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative support and funding for  .

 . 5.  . The   shall provide recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, on the matters set forth in section 3 within   of the date of this order, unless the   determines that an extension is necessary.   may take other actions it considers appropriate to promote the safety of imported products.

 . 6. Termination of  . Following consultation with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the   shall terminate   upon the completion of its duties.

 . 7. General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect (i) authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof, or (ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
