Section 1. (a) There is established in   the President's   on     and  ). The   shall consist of not more than 15 members appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated by the President as  . The   shall include members who: (i) have a history of involvement with the     and Pacific Islander communities; (ii) are from the business enterprise sector; (iii) are from civic associations representing one or more of the diverse     and Pacific Islander communities; (iv) are from the fields of economic, social, and community development; or (v) have such other experience as the President deems appropriate.

(b)  The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall designate an Executive Director for the  .

 . 2. The   shall provide advice to the President, through the Secretary, on:

(a)  the development, monitoring, and coordination of executive branch efforts to improve the economic and community development of     and Pacific Islander businesses through ensuring equal opportunity to participate in Federal programs, and public-sector, private-sector partnerships, and through the collection of data related to   and Pacific Islander businesses; and

(b) ways to increase the business diversification of     and  , including ways to foster research and data on     and Pacific Islander businesses including their level of participation in the national economy and their economic and community development.

 . 3. (a) The Secretary shall establish within   an office known as   Initiative on     and  ). The Office shall provide support for the   and the interagency working group created in section 3(b) of this order.

(b)  The Secretary shall also create an interagency working group ( )

whose activities shall be coordinated by  . The Secretary shall designate the executive departments and agencies that shall serve on   (executive departments and agencies) and the heads of those departments and agencies shall select the officials that shall serve as their respective representatives on  . The Executive Director of the   shall also serve as the Director of the Office and  , and shall report to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The Director of   shall advise the Secretary or the Secretary's designee on efforts by   to improve access to economic opportunities, through equal access to such opportunities, for     and Pacific Islander businesses where they may be underserved and thus to improve the quality of life of     and  .

 . 4. The head of each executive department and agency on   shall designate a senior   official responsible for management or program administration to report directly to the agency head on activities implementing this order and to serve as a liaison to, and representative on,  . The Secretary may designate additional   officials, with the concurrence of the head of the designated executive department or agency, to carry out functions of  . To the extent permitted by law and to the extent practicable, each designated executive department and agency shall provide appropriate information requested by  , including data relating to the eligibility for and participation of     and Pacific Islander businesses in Federal programs. Where adequate data are not available, the   shall suggest the means of collecting such data.

 . 5. Each designated executive department and agency shall prepare a plan for, and shall document, its efforts to support economic opportunities for     and Pacific Islander businesses. This plan shall address, among other things, executive branch efforts to:

(a) increase participation in Federal programs for     and Pacific Islander businesses through equal access to such programs;

(b) ensure nondiscrimination in Federal contracts and procurement opportunities;

(c) provide equal opportunity for public-sector, private-sector partnerships for the community and economic development of     and Pacific Islander businesses; and

(d) foster research and data collection on     and Pacific Islander businesses. Each plan shall be submitted through the working group and the   to the Secretary at a date to be established by the Secretary.

 . 6. The Secretary shall review the plans of the designated executive departments and agencies and develop for submission to the President for his approval an integrated Federal plan ( ) to increase the participation of     and Pacific Islander businesses in executive branch programs through equal access to such programs where such organizations may be underserved. Actions described in the   shall address improving access by   and Pacific Islander businesses to Federal programs and fostering advances in relevant research and data as it pertains to community economic development. The Secretary shall disseminate the Federal Plan, to the extent the   is approved by the President, to appropriate members of the executive branch. The findings and recommendations in the   shall be followed by the designated executive departments and agencies in their policies and activities, to the extent permitted by law and as practicable.

 . 7. Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of any portion of this order, any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

 . 8. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707). To the extent permitted by law and appropriations, and where practicable, executive departments and agencies shall, upon request by the Secretary, provide assistance to the   and to  , and   shall provide administrative support and funding for the  .

 . 9. The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless renewed by the President.

 . 10. For the purposes of this order, the term: (a) " " includes persons having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the   subcontinent; and the term (b) "Pacific Islander" includes persons having origins in any of the original peoples of  ,  ,  , or other Pacific Islands.

 . 11. The Secretary of   shall consult the Attorney General as appropriate on the implementation of this order to ensure that such implementation affords the equal protection of the laws required by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.

 . 12. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.  
