Section 1. (a) The Secretary of   shall not permit the exportation or reexportation to   of any item on   (22   part 121).

(b)

Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to the provisions of this order in a manner consistent with the  , and notwithstanding any license, permit, or authorization granted prior to the effective date of this order, (i) the Secretary of   shall not permit the exportation or reexportation to   of any item on   (15   part 774); and (ii) with the exception of food and medicine, the Secretary of   shall not permit the exportation or reexportation to   of any product of   not included in  ) of this order.

(c)

No other agency of   shall permit the exportation or reexportation to   of any product of  , except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order in a manner consistent with the  , and notwithstanding any license, permit, or authorization granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2. The Secretary of   shall not permit any air carrier owned or controlled by   to provide foreign air transportation as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(23), except that he may, to the extent consistent with   regulations, permit such carriers to charter aircraft to   for the transport of   government officials to and from   on official   government business. In addition, the Secretary of   shall prohibit all takeoffs and landings in  , other than those associated with an emergency, by any such air carrier when engaged in scheduled international air services.

 . 3. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)), and   of   (title IX, Public Law 106–387) (TSRA), or regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of the following persons, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: persons who are determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ,

(i)

to be or to have been directing or otherwise significantly contributing to   provision of safe haven to or other support for any person whose property or interests in property are blocked under   law for terrorism-related reasons, including, but not limited to,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and any persons designated pursuant to Executive Order   of  ;

(ii)

to be or to have been directing or otherwise significantly contributing to   military or security presence in  ;

(iii) to be or to have been directing or otherwise significantly contributing to

the Government of  's pursuit of the development and production of chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons and medium- and long-range surface-to-surface missiles;

(iv)

to be or to have been directing or otherwise significantly contributing to any steps taken by   to undermine   and international efforts with respect to the stabilization and reconstruction of  ; or

(v)

to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b)

The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to,

(i)

the making of any contribution of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and (ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 4. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b)

Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of the   (50

U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) would seriously impair the ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and hereby prohibit, (i) the exportation or reexportation of such donated articles to   as provided in section 1(b) of this order; and (ii) the making of such donations by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 3 of this order.

 . 6. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c)

the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d)

the term "Government of Syria" means  , its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities; and

(e)

the term "product of  " means: for the purposes of subsection 1(b), any item subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15   parts 730– 774); and for the purposes of subsection 1(c), any item subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of any other   agency.

 . 7. With respect to the prohibitions contained in section 1 of this order, consistent with subsection 5(b) of the  , I hereby determine that it is in the national security interest of   to waive, and hereby waive application of subsection 5(a)(1) and subsection 5(a)(2)(A) of the   so as to permit the exportation or reexportation of certain items as specified in   General Order No. 2 to Supplement No. 1, 15   part 736, as issued consistent with this order and as may be amended pursuant to the provisions of this order and in a manner consistent with the  . This waiver is made pursuant to the   only to the extent that regulation of such exports or reexports would not otherwise fall within my constitutional authority to conduct the  's foreign affairs and protect national security.

 . 8. With respect to the prohibitions contained in section 2 of this order, consistent with subsection 5(b) of the  , I hereby determine that it is in the national security interest of   to waive, and hereby waive, application of subsection 5(a)(2)(D) of the   insofar as it pertains to: aircraft of any air carrier owned or controlled by   chartered by the   government for the transport of   government officials to and from   on official   government business, to the extent consistent with   regulations; takeoffs or landings for non-traffic stops of aircraft of any such air carrier that is not engaged in scheduled international air services; takeoffs and landings associated with an emergency; and overflights of   territory.

 . 9. I hereby direct the Secretary of   to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out subsection 1(a) of this order. I hereby direct the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out subsection 1(b) of this order. I direct the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out section 2 of this order. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the   as may be necessary to carry out sections 3,  , and 5 of this order. The Secretaries of State,  ,  , and the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of  , in consultation with    , and the  , as appropriate, is authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President in subsection 5(b) of the   and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretaries of State,  ,  , and the   in a timely manner of the measures taken.

 . 10. This order is not intended to create, and does not create, any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 11. For those persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 3 of this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 12. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the  , 50 U.S.C. 1641(c), and section 204(c) of the  , 50 U.S.C. 1703(c).

 . 13. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 eastern daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
