Section 1. There is hereby constituted  . The purpose of the   is to attract to the   service outstanding men and women from a variety of academic disciplines and career paths who have a clear interest in, and commitment to, excellence in the leadership and management of public policies and programs. Individuals selected for the   shall be known as   (PMFs) or   (Senior PMFs).

 . 2. (a) Individuals eligible for appointment as a   under this order are those who, in pursuing a course of study at the graduate level, have demonstrated both exceptional ability and the commitment to which section 1 refers. Such individuals at the time of application must have received, or must expect to receive soon thereafter, an appropriate advanced degree as defined by the Director of   (OPM).

(b)

Individuals eligible for appointment as a Senior   under this order are those who have, through extensive work experience, demonstrated both exceptional leadership or analytical ability and the commitment to which section 1 refers.

 . 3. The Director of   shall prescribe appropriate merit-based rules for the recruitment, nomination, assessment, selection, appointment, placement, and continuing career development of fellows, including rules that:

(a)

reserve to the head of a department or agency or component within   of the President (EOP) the authority

to appoint a fellow who is to be employed in that department, agency, or component;

(b)

provide for nomination by universities and colleges, through competitive selection processes, of eligible individuals for consideration for appointment as PMFs;

(c)

carry out the policy of   to ensure equal employment opportunities for employees without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin; and

(d)

ensure the application of appropriate veterans' preference criteria.

 . 4. (a) Fellows shall be appointed to positions in either:

(1) Schedule A of the excepted service; or

(2)

an agency or component within the EOP excepted from the competitive service.

(b)

Appointments under subsection (a) shall not exceed   in duration unless extended by the head of the department or agency or component within the EOP, with the concurrence of the Director of  , for a period not to exceed  .

(c)

The following principles and policies shall govern service and tenure by fellows:

(1)

responsibilities assigned to a   shall be consistent with the  's educational background and career interests, and the purposes of the  ; and responsibilities assigned to a Senior   shall be consistent with the Senior  's experience and career interests, and the purposes of the  ;

(2)

continuation of a fellow's appointment shall be contingent upon satisfactory performance by the fellow throughout the fellowship appointment;

(3)

except as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, service as a fellow shall confer no right to further Federal employment in either the competitive or excepted service upon the expiration of the fellow's appointment; and

(4)

competitive civil service status may be granted to a fellow who satisfactorily completes the   and meets such other re

quirements as the Director of   may prescribe. A fellow appointed by an agency excepted from the competitive service may also be appointed to a permanent position in an excepted service agency without further competition.

 . 5. The Director of OPM shall provide for an orderly transition, including with respect to nominations, selection processes, and appointments, from   established by Executive Order   of  , to   established by this order. Until that transition is provided for, individuals who were selected or appointed under the provisions of Executive Order   and who have not completed their scheduled periods of excepted service are hereby redesignated as  , and continue their internships under the terms of Executive Order  .

 . 6. The Director of   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.

 . 7. Executive Order   is superseded, except as provided in section 5 of this order.

 . 8. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.  
