Section 1.   Campaign Medal. There is hereby established   with suitable appurtenances. Except as limited in section 3 of this order, and under uniform regulations to be prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments and approved by the Secretary of  , or under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , the   Campaign Medal shall be awarded to members of the uniformed services of   who serve or have served in   or contiguous air space, as defined by such regulations, on or after  , and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

 . 2.   Campaign Medal. There is hereby established   with suitable appurtenances. Except as limited in section 3 of this order, and under uniform regulations to be prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments and approved by the Secretary of  , or under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  , the Iraq Campaign Medal shall be awarded to members of the uniformed services of   who serve or have served in   or contiguous waters or air space, as defined by such regulations, on or after  , and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the Secretary of  .

 . 3. Relationship to Other Awards. Notwithstanding section 1 of Executive Order   of  , establishing the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, any member who qualified for that medal by reason of service in    , and a terminal date to be determined by the Secretary of  , or in    , and a terminal date to be determined by the Secretary of  , shall remain qualified for that medal. Upon application, a member by reason of service may be awarded either   or the Iraq Campaign Medal in lieu of the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal. A member may be awarded either   or the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal by reason of service in  . A member may be awarded either   or the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal by reason of service in  . No member shall be entitled to the award of more than one of these three medals for the same period of service.

 . 4. Posthumous  .   may be awarded posthumously to any person covered by and under regulations prescribed in accordance with this order.  
