Section 1. There is established, in  , the President's   for   Americans (Commission). The   shall consist of not more than 25 members. Twenty-one of the members shall be appointed by the President. Those members shall be representatives of educational, business, professional, and community organizations who are committed to improving educational attainment within the   community, as well as other persons deemed appropriate by the President. The President shall designate two of the appointed members to serve as  . The other four members of the   shall be ex officio members, one each from  ,  ,  , and  . The ex officio members shall be the respective Secretaries of those agencies and  , or their designees.

 . 2. The   shall provide advice to the Secretary of   ("Secretary") and shall issue reports to the President, as described in section 7 below, concerning:

(a)

the progress of     in closing the academic achievement gap and attaining the goals established by the President's "No Child Left Behind" educational blueprint;

(b)

the development, monitoring, and coordination of Federal efforts to promote high-quality education for    ;

(c)

ways to increase parental,   and local, private sector, and community involvement in improving education; and

(d)

ways to maximize the effectiveness of Federal education initiatives within the   community.

 . 3. There is established, in  , an office called   Initiative on Educational Excellence for   Americans (Initiative). The Initiative shall be located at, staffed, and supported by  , and headed by a Director, who shall be a senior level executive branch official who reports to the Secretary. The Initiative shall provide the necessary staff, resources, and assistance to the   and shall assist and advise the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities under this order. The staff of the   shall gather and disseminate information relating to the educational achievement gap of    , using a variety of means, including conducting surveys, conferences, field hearings, and meetings, and other appropriate vehicles designed to encourage the participation of organizations and individuals interested in such issues, including parents, community leaders, academicians, business leaders, teachers, employers, employees and public officials at the local,  , and Federal levels. To the extent permitted by law, executive

branch departments and agencies shall cooperate in providing resources, including personnel detailed to the  , to meet the objectives of this order. The Initiative shall include both career civil service and appointed staff with expertise in the area of education.

 . 4. Executive branch departments and agencies, to the extent permitted by law and practicable, shall provide any appropriate information requested by the   or the staff of the  , including data relating to the eligibility for and participation by   in Federal education programs and the progress of     in closing the academic achievement gap and in achieving the goals of the President's "No Child Left Behind" education blueprint. Where adequate data are not available, the   shall suggest the means for collecting the data. In accordance with the accountability goals established by the President, executive branch departments and agencies involved in relevant programs shall report to the President through the   by  , on:

(a)

efforts to increase participation of     in Federal education programs and services;

(b)

efforts to include  -serving school districts,  -serving institutions, and other educational institutions for     in Federal education programs and services;

(c)

levels of participation attained by   in Federal education programs and services; and

(d)

the measurable impact resulting from these efforts and levels of participation.   report also shall describe the overall condition of     education and such other aspects of the educational status of    , as the Secretary considers appropriate.

 . 5. Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

 . 6. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(b)

To the extent permitted by law,   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   and the  .

 . 7. The   shall prepare and submit an interim and final report to the President outlining its findings and recommendations as follows:

(a)

The   shall submit an Interim Report   September 30, 2002. The Interim Report shall describe the  's examination of:

(i)

available research and information on the effectiveness of current practices at the local,  , and Federal levels in closing the educational achievement gap for     and attaining the goals established by the President's "No Child Left Behind" educational blueprint;

(ii)

available research and information on the effectiveness of current practices involving   parents in the education of their children; and

(iii) the appropriate role of Federal agencies' education programs in helping   parents successfully prepare their children to graduate from high school and attend post secondary institutions.

(b)

The   shall issue a Final Report  . The Final Report shall set forth the  's recommendations regarding:

(i)

a   plan, based on the data collected concerning identification of barriers to and successful models for closing the educational achievement gap for    , that provides for a coordinated effort among parents, community leaders, business leaders, educators, and public officials at the local,  , and Federal levels to close the educational achievement gap for     and ensure attainment of the goals established by the President's "No Child Left Behind" educational blueprint.

(ii)

the development of a monitoring system that measures and holds executive

branch departments and agencies accountable for the coordination of Federal efforts among the designated executive departments and agencies to ensure the participation of     in Federal education programs and promote high-quality education for    ;

(iii) the identification of successful methods employed throughout the Nation in increasing parental,   and local, private sector, and community involvement in improving education for    ;

(iv)

ways to improve on and measure the effectiveness of Federal agencies' education programs in ensuring that     close the educational achievement gap and attain the goals established by the President's "No Child Left Behind" educational blueprint; and

(v)

how   education programs can best be applied to ensure   parents successfully prepare their children to attend post secondary institutions.

 . 8. The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report, unless extended by the President.

 . 9. Executive Order   of  , as amended, is revoked.
