118 SCON 1 IS: Adopting Cryptocurrency in Congress as an Exchange of Payment for Transactions Resolution
U.S. Senate
2023-01-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. CON. RES. 1
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 25, 2023
Mr. Cruz
submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Requiring the Architect of the Capitol, the Secretary of the Senate, and the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to contract with food service contractors and vending machine contractors for the Capitol Complex that accept cryptocurrency, and for other purposes.
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Adopting Cryptocurrency in Congress as an Exchange of Payment for Transactions Resolution
or the
ACCEPT Resolution
.
2.
Accepting of cryptocurrency at res­tau­rants, vending machines, and gift shops in the Capitol Complex
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
Capitol Buildings
means the Capitol Buildings described in section 5101 of title 40, United States Code; and
(2)
the term
digital asset
means a natively electronic asset that—
(A)
is recorded on a cryptographically secured distributed ledger; and
(B)
is designed to confer only economic or access rights.
(b)
Acceptance of cryptocurrency
The Architect of the Capitol, the Secretary of the Senate, and the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall each, for the Capitol Buildings that are under their jurisdiction—
(1)
subject to subsection (c), solicit and enter into contracts to provide food service and vending machines in such Capitol Buildings with persons that will accept digital assets as payment for goods; and
(2)
encourage the gift shops in such Capitol Buildings to accept digital assets as payment for goods.
(c)
Additional considerations
The Architect of the Capitol, the Secretary of the Senate, and the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives may not enter into contracts described in subsection (b)(1) if the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Administrative Officer of the House, reports to the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives that entering into such contracts would preclude the selection of alternatives that are cost-effective and value-centered for patrons.
