1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cabinet Service Integrity Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Close associate
The term
close associate
means, with respect to a senior foreign political figure, an individual who is widely and publicly known to maintain a close relationship with the senior foreign political figure, unless it is established that such individual is a citizen of and domiciled within the United States.
(2)
Covered foreign entity
The term
covered foreign entity
means—
(A)
a government of a foreign country;
(B)
a foreign political party; or
(C)
any entity that is owned or controlled by a government of a foreign country or a foreign political party.
(3)
Foreign political party; government of a foreign country
The terms
foreign political party
and
government of a foreign country
have the meanings given those terms in section 1 of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (
22 U.S.C. 611
).
(4)
Immediate family member of a head of a relevant agency or department
The term
immediate family member of a head of a relevant agency or department
means, with respect to a head of a relevant agency or department, a sibling, spouse, or child of the head of a relevant agency or department.
(5)
Immediate family member of a senior foreign political figure
The term
immediate family member of a senior foreign political figure
means, with respect to a senior foreign political figure, a sibling, spouse, or child of the senior foreign political figure, unless it is established that such sibling, spouse, or child is a citizen of and domiciled within the United States.
(6)
Relevant agency or department
The term
relevant agency or department
means—
(A)
the Environmental Protection Agency; or
(B)
an
Executive department
, as defined in section 101 of title 5, United States Code.
(7)
Senior foreign political figure
The term
senior foreign political figure
means—
(A)
a senior official in any branch of the government of a foreign country; or
(B)
a senior official of a foreign political party.
3.
Prohibition
During the period in which an individual is acting as the head of a relevant agency or department, the head of a relevant agency or department or the immediate family member of that individual may not solicit or otherwise raise funds for any purpose from any—
(1)
covered foreign entity;
(2)
senior foreign political figure;
(3)
immediate family member of a senior foreign political figure;
(4)
close associate of a senior foreign political figure; or
(5)
entity that is owned or controlled by an individual described in paragraph (2), (3), or (4).
4.
Penalties
Whoever knowingly fails to comply with this Act shall be fined not more than $1,000,000, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
5.
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
