1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Leadership Recognition Act
.
2.
Rate of military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisors to the commanders of the combatant commands
(a)
In general
Effective for months beginning on or after January 1, 2017, the rate of monthly basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisors to the commanders of the combatant commands shall be equivalent to the rate of monthly basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Effective with respect to months beginning on or after January 1, 2017, footnote 2 accompanying the enlisted members pay table in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat. 2245;
37 U.S.C. 1009
note) is amended by striking
or Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and inserting
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or Senior Enlisted Advisor to the commander of a combatant command
.
3.
Report on inclusion of additional senior enlisted members among enlisted members entitled to
elevated rate of military basic pay
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth an assessment of the advisability of including additional senior enlisted members of the Armed Forces among the most senior enlisted members of the Armed Forces who are entitled to an elevated rate of military basic pay by reason of footnote 2 accompanying the enlisted members pay table in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat. 2245;
37 U.S.C. 1009
note) and related guidance (including the material commonly appearing as footnote 4 accompanying the annual military pay tables published by the Defense Finance and Accounting Service).
(b)
Members or categories of members
If the Secretary determines that the inclusion of any additional enlisted members or categories of enlisted members as described in subsection (a) is advisable, the report under that subsection shall specify such additional members or categories of members.
4.
Modification of authority of President to determine alternative pay adjustment in annual basic pay
of members of the uniformed services
(a)
Modification
Section 1009(e) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or serious economic conditions affecting the general welfare
;
(2)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(3)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and—
(1)
if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs before September 1 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after such year; and
(2)
if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs after August 31 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after the year following such year.
