1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trickett Wendler Right to Try Act of 2017
.
2.
Use of unapproved medical products by patients diagnosed with a terminal illness
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.), the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.), and any other provision of Federal law, the Federal Government shall not take any action to prohibit or restrict—
(1)
the production, manufacture, distribution, prescribing, or dispensing of an experimental drug, biological product, or device that—
(A)
is intended to treat a patient who has been diagnosed with a terminal illness; and
(B)
is authorized by, and in accordance with, State law; and
(2)
the possession or use of an experimental drug, biological product, or device—
(A)
that is described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1); and
(B)
for which the patient has received a certification from a physician, who is in good standing with the physician's certifying organization or board, that the patient has exhausted, or otherwise does not meet qualifying criteria to receive, any other available treatment options.
(b)
No liability or use of outcomes
(1)
No liability
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no liability shall lie against a producer, manufacturer, distributor, prescriber, dispenser, possessor, or user of an experimental drug, biological product, or device for the production, manufacture, distribution, prescribing, dispensing, possession, or use of an experimental drug, biological product, or device that is in compliance with subsection (a).
(2)
No use of outcomes
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the outcome of any production, manufacture, distribution, prescribing, dispensing, possession, or use of an experimental drug, biological product, or device that was done in compliance with subsection (a) shall not be used by a Federal agency reviewing the experimental drug, biological product, or device to delay or otherwise adversely impact review or approval of such experimental drug, biological product, or device.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Biological product
The term
biological product
has the meaning given to such term in section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262
).
(2)
Device; drug
The terms
device
and
drug
have the meanings given to such terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321
).
(3)
Experimental drug, biological product, or device
The term
experimental drug, biological product, or device
means a drug, biological product, or device that—
(A)
has successfully completed a phase 1 clinical investigation;
(B)
remains under investigation in a clinical trial approved by the Food and Drug Administration; and
(C)
is not approved, licensed, or cleared for commercial distribution under section 505, 510(k), or 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, or Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 355
, 360(k), 360(e)) or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262
).
(4)
Phase 1 clinical investigation
The term
phase 1 clinical investigation
means a phase 1 clinical investigation, as described in section 312.21 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations).
(5)
Terminal illness
The term
terminal illness
has the meaning given to such term in the State law specified in subsection (a)(1)(B).
