1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Kelsey Smith Act
.
2.
Required emergency disclosure of call location information to law enforcement
Section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 222
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(C)
by striking
Nothing in this section
and inserting the following:
(1)
Permitted disclosures
Nothing in this section
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Required emergency disclosure of call location information to law enforcement
(A)
In general
Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c), at the request of an investigative or law enforcement officer, a provider of a covered service shall provide to the officer the call location information, or the best available location information, of a telecommunications device that is—
(i)
used to place a 9–1–1 call requesting emergency assistance; or
(ii)
reasonably believed to be in the possession of an individual that the officer reasonably believes is in an emergency situation that involves the risk of death or serious physical harm to the individual.
(B)
Hold harmless
No cause of action shall lie in any court, nor shall any civil or administrative proceeding be commenced by a governmental entity, against a telecommunications carrier, or its directors, officers, employees, agents, or vendors, for providing in good faith call location information or other information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with subparagraph (A) and any regulations promulgated under this paragraph.
;
(2)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
subsection (d)(4)
and inserting
subsection (d)(1)(D)
; and
(3)
in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Covered service
The term
covered service
means—
(A)
a commercial mobile service (as defined in section 332); or
(B)
an IP-enabled voice service (as defined in section 7 of the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 (
47 U.S.C. 615b
)).
(9)
Investigative or law enforcement officer
The term
investigative or law enforcement officer
has the meaning given the term
Investigative or law enforcement officer
in section 2510 of title 18, United States Code.
.
