1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Indian and Alaska Native Veterans Mental Health Act
.
2.
Mental health and suicide prevention outreach to minority veterans and American Indian and Alaska Native veterans
(a)
Staffing requirement
Beginning not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that each medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs has not fewer than one full-time employee whose responsibility is serving as a minority veteran coordinator.
(b)
Training
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Indian Health Service and the Director of the Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention of the Department of Veterans Affairs, shall ensure that all minority veteran coordinators receive training in delivery of mental health and suicide prevention services culturally appropriate for American Indian and Alaska Native veterans, especially with respect to the populations and Indian Tribes identified within the catchment area served by each such coordinator.
(c)
Coordination with suicide prevention coordinators
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention of the Department, shall ensure that the suicide prevention coordinator and minority veteran coordinator of each medical center of the Department have developed and disseminated to the director of the medical center a written plan for conducting mental health and suicide prevention outreach to all Indian Tribes and Urban Indian organizations within the catchment area of the medical center.
(2)
Elements of plan
Each plan required under paragraph (1) shall include for each Indian Tribe covered by the plan—
(A)
contact information for leadership of the Indian Tribe and the Tribal health facility or facility of the Indian Health Service serving the Indian Tribe;
(B)
a schedule for and list of outreach plans (including plans addressing any barriers to accessing mental health care from the Department);
(C)
documentation of any conversation with leaders of the Indian Tribe that may guide culturally appropriate delivery of mental health care to American Indian or Alaska Native veterans;
(D)
documentation of any progress in incorporating traditional healing practices into mental health and suicide prevention protocols and options available for veterans who are members of such Indian Tribe; and
(E)
documentation of any coordination among the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Indian Health Service, Urban Indian organizations, and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services for the purpose of improving suicide prevention efforts tailored to veterans who are members of such Indian Tribe and the provision of culturally competent mental health care to such veterans.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on outreach efforts to minority veterans and American Indian and Alaska Native veterans.
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include each of the following:
(A)
The number of minority veteran coordinators within the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(B)
The number and percentage of minority veteran coordinators who are women.
(C)
The number and percentage of minority veteran coordinators who are persons of color.
(D)
The number and percentage of medical centers of the Department with a minority veteran coordinator.
(E)
The number and percentage of mental health providers of the Department who are enrolled members of an Indian Tribe or self-identify as Native American.
(F)
The number and percentage of mental health providers of the Department who speak a second language.
(G)
A review of the outreach plans developed and submitted to all medical centers of the Department for outreach to American Indian and Alaska Native veterans.
(H)
An annual review of mental health care provided by the Department to American Indian and Alaska Native veterans during the three-year period preceding the date of the report, including the number of appointments for such care and an assessment of any barriers to providing such care.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304(e)
).
(2)
Urban Indian organization
The term
Urban Indian organization
has the meaning given that term in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (
25 U.S.C. 1603
).
