1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Norman Y. Mineta Japanese American Confinement Education Act
.
2.
Japanese American confinement education grants
Public Law 109–441 (120 Stat. 3290) is amended—
(1)
in section 2, by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Japanese American confinement education grants
The term
Japanese American Confinement Education Grants
means competitive grants, awarded through the Japanese American Confinement Sites Program, for Japanese American organizations to educate individuals, including through the use of digital resources, in the United States on the historical importance of Japanese American confinement during World War II, so that present and future generations may learn from Japanese American confinement and the commitment of the United States to equal justice under the law.
(5)
Japanese American organization
The term
Japanese American organization
means a private nonprofit organization within the United States established to promote the understanding and appreciation of the ethnic and cultural diversity of the United States by illustrating the Japanese American experience throughout the history of the United States.
; and
(2)
in section 4—
(A)
by inserting
(a)
In general.—
before
There are authorized
;
(B)
by striking
$38,000,000
and inserting
$80,000,000
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(b)
Japanese American Confinement Education Grants
(1)
In general
Of the amounts made available under this section, not more than $10,000,000 shall be awarded as Japanese American Confinement Education Grants to Japanese American organizations. Such competitive grants shall be in an amount not less than $750,000 and the Secretary shall give priority consideration to Japanese American organizations with fewer than 100 employees.
(2)
Matching requirement
(A)
Fifty percent
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), for funds awarded under this subsection, the Secretary shall require a 50 percent match with non-Federal assets from non-Federal sources, which may include cash or durable goods and materials fairly valued, as determined by the Secretary.
(B)
Waiver
The Secretary may waive all or part of the matching requirement under subparagraph (A), if the Secretary determines that—
(i)
no reasonable means are available through which an applicant can meet the matching requirement; and
(ii)
the probable benefit of the project funded outweighs the public interest in such matching requirement.
.
