1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clean Energy for All Homes Act
.
2.
Refundability of credit for residential energy efficient property
(a)
Credit made refundable; installer requirements
Section 25D
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (j) and by inserting after subsection (g) the following new subsections:
(h)
Credit made refundable for taxable years after 2022
In the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2022, the credit allowed under subsection (a) shall be treated as a credit allowed under subpart C (and not allowed under this subpart).
(i)
Requirement for qualified installer
(1)
In general
No credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) with respect to any expenditure for property described in subsection (d) which is placed in service after December 31, 2022, unless—
(A)
such property is installed by a qualified installer, and
(B)
the taxpayer includes the qualified installation identification number described in paragraph (3) on the return of tax for the taxable year.
(2)
Qualified installer
(A)
In general
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified installer
means an installer who enters into an agreement with the Secretary which provides that such installer will, with respect to any expenditure for property described in subsection (d) in connection with a dwelling unit used as a residence by the taxpayer—
(i)
provide the taxpayer with a qualified installation identification number and a written receipt of the purchase and installation of such property in a manner prescribed by the Secretary, and
(ii)
make periodic written reports to the Secretary (in such manner as the Secretary may provide) of qualified installation identification numbers assigned by the installer corresponding to such expenditures, including such information as the Secretary may require with respect to such expenditures.
(B)
Installer deemed to meet requirement
For purposes of subparagraph (A), to the extent provided by the Secretary, an installer may be deemed to meet the requirement under clause (ii) of such subparagraph on the basis of information available to the Secretary which the Secretary determines is reasonably reliable for purposes of determining the amount of expenditures described in subsection (a) made by a taxpayer in connection with a dwelling unit used as a residence by such taxpayer.
(3)
Qualified installation identification number
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified installation identification number
means a unique identification number with respect to expenditures described in subsection (a) in connection with a dwelling unit used as a residence by the taxpayer.
(4)
Registration
The Secretary may require such information or registration of a qualified installer as the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate for purposes of preventing duplication, fraud, or improper claims with respect to expenditures described in subsection (a). Under regulations or other guidance prescribed by the Secretary, the registration of any person under this section may be denied, revoked, or suspended if the Secretary determines that such denial, revocation, or suspension is necessary to prevent duplication, fraud, or improper claims with respect to expenditures described in subsection (a).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 6213(g)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (P), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (Q), by striking the period at the end and inserting
, and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(R)
an omission of a correct qualified installation identification number required under subsection (i)(1)(B) of section 25D (relating to credit for residential energy efficient property) to be included on a return.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to expenditures made after December 31, 2022.
