1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
PFAS Free Military Purchasing Act
.
2.
Prohibition on procurement, purchasing, and sale by Department of Defense of certain items containing perfluoroalkyl substances and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(a)
Prohibition on procurement and purchasing
The Secretary of Defense may not procure or purchase any covered item containing a perfluoroalkyl substance or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
(b)
Prohibition on sale
The Secretary of Defense may not permit the sale of any covered item containing a perfluoroalkyl substance or polyfluoroalkyl substance on property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered item
The term
covered item
means—
(A)
non-stick cookware or food service ware for use in galleys or dining facilities;
(B)
food packaging materials;
(C)
floor waxes;
(D)
carpeting, rugs, curtains, or upholstered furniture;
(E)
personal care items;
(F)
dental floss or toothpaste;
(G)
sunscreen;
(H)
umbrellas, luggage, or bags;
(I)
ski wax;
(J)
car wax and car window treatments;
(K)
cleaning products; and
(L)
shoes and clothing for which treatment with a perfluoroalkyl substance or polyfluoroalkyl substance is not currently necessary for an essential function.
(2)
Perfluoroalkyl substance
The term
perfluoroalkyl substance
means a man-made chemical of which all of the carbon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon atoms.
(3)
Polyfluoroalkyl substance
The term
polyfluoroalkyl substance
means a man-made chemical containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom and at least one nonfluorinated carbon atom.
(4)
Property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense
The term
property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense
includes commissaries, facilities operated by the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy Exchange Service Command, the Navy Resale and Services Support Office, Marine Corps exchanges, online exchange shops, and ships’ stores.
(d)
Repeal of superseded authority
Section 333 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
Public Law 116–283
) is repealed.
(e)
Effective date
This section and the amendment made by this section shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
