1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Revitalizing the Aging Network Act
.
2.
Funding for the aging network and infrastructure
(a)
Appropriation
(1)
In general
In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Department of Health and Human Services—
(A)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out part B of title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3030d et seq.
), including for—
(i)
supportive services of the type made available for fiscal year 2021 and authorized under such part;
(ii)
investing in the aging network for the purposes of improving the availability of supportive services, including investing in the aging network workforce;
(iii)
the acquisition, alteration, or renovation of facilities, including multipurpose senior centers, intergenerational shared-site models, and mobile units; and
(iv)
construction or modernization of facilities to serve as multipurpose senior centers;
(B)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out part C of title III of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3030d–21 et seq.
), including to support the modernization of infrastructure and technology, including kitchen equipment and delivery vehicles, to support the provision of congregate nutrition services and home delivered nutrition services under such part;
(C)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out part E of title III of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3030s et seq.
), including section 373(e) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3030s–1(e)
);
(D)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out title VI of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3057 et seq.
), including part C of such title (
42 U.S.C. 3057k–11 et seq.
);
(E)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out the long-term care ombudsman program under title VII of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3058 et seq.
);
(F)
such sums as may be necessary for technical assistance centers or national resource centers supported under such Act, including all such centers that received funding under title IV of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3031 et seq.
) for fiscal year 2021, in order to support technical assistance and resource development related to culturally appropriate care management and services for older individuals with the greatest social need, including racial and ethnic minority individuals;
(G)
such sums as may be necessary for technical assistance centers or national resource centers supported under such Act that are focused on providing services for older individuals who are underserved due to their sexual orientation or gender identity; and
(H)
such sums as may be necessary to carry out section 417 of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3032f
).
(2)
Availability
Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain available until expended.
(b)
Requirements for recipients of funding
(1)
Coordination
Any entity receiving funds made available under this section shall coordinate, to the extent practicable, activities with organizations providing the same services as those funded under this section, or facilitating the delivery of such services, to older individuals served by the Older Americans Act of 1965.
(2)
Submission of data
An entity receiving funds made available under this section shall submit relevant data as the Assistant Secretary may require for purposes of the evaluation conducted under subsection (c).
(c)
Program evaluation
(1)
In general
Not later than 6 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary, shall by grant, contract, or interagency agreement—
(A)
evaluate the outcomes of all projects or activities supported by funds made available under this section; and
(B)
submit a report on such evaluation to Congress.
(2)
Contents
The report required under paragraph (1) shall describe—
(A)
the innovations in program and service delivery undertaken through funds made available under this section;
(B)
the impact of such innovations on the communities served by such programs or services and the entities providing the programs or services; and
(C)
the impact of such innovations on older individuals participating in such programs or services.
(d)
Supplement, not supplant
Funds made available under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, any Federal, State, or other funds otherwise available to provide programs and services to older individuals.
(e)
Nonapplicability of certain requirements
The non-Federal contribution requirements under sections 304(d)(1)(D) and 431(a) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3024(d)(1)(D)
;
42 U.S.C. 3033(a)
), and section 373(h)(2) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 3030s–1(h)(2)
), shall not apply to—
(1)
any amounts made available under this section; or
(2)
any amounts made available under section 2921 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (
Public Law 117–2
).
(f)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
aging network
,
Assistant Secretary
, and
older individual
have the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (
42 U.S.C. 3002
).
