1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Rapid Retraining Assistance Program Restoration and Recovery Act of 2022
.
2.
Restoration of entitlement under Veterans Rapid Retraining Assistance Program
(a)
In general
Section 8006 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (
Public Law 117–2
), as amended by the Training in High-demand Roles to Improve Veteran Employment Act (
Public Law 117–16
), is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (m), the following new subsection (n):
(n)
Effects of closure of an educational institution or disapproval of a program of education
(1)
In general
Any payment of retraining assistance under subsection (d)(1) shall not be charged against any entitlement to retraining assistance described in subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that an individual was unable to complete a course or program of education as a result of —
(A)
the closure of an educational institution; or
(B)
the disapproval of a program of education by the State approving agency or the Secretary when acting in the role of the State approving agency.
(2)
Period not charged
The period for which, by reason of this subsection, retraining assistance is not charged shall be equal to the full amount of retraining assistance provided for enrollment in the program of education.
(3)
Halt of payments to certain educational institutions
In the event of a closure or disapproval, as described in paragraph (1), the educational institution shall not receive any further payments under subsection (d).
(4)
Recovery of funds
In the event of a closure or disapproval, as described in paragraph (1), any payment already made under subsection (d) to the educational institution shall be considered an overpayment and constitute a liability of such institution to the United States.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
In subsection (b)(3) of such section, strike the period and insert
, except for an individual described in subsection (n).
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply as if included in the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (
Public Law 117–2
).
