1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Semiconductor Supply Chains Act of 2021
.
2.
SelectUSA defined
In this Act, the term
SelectUSA
means the SelectUSA Initiative of the Department of Commerce established by Executive Order 13577 (76 Fed. Reg. 35,715).
3.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Semiconductors underpin the United States and global economies, especially with respect to manufacturing. Semiconductors are also essential to national security and military applications of the United States.
(2)
A shortage of semiconductors, brought about by the COVID–19 pandemic and other complex factors impacting the overall supply chain, has threatened the economic recovery of the United States and industries that employ millions of United States citizens.
(3)
Addressing current challenges and building resilience against future risks requires ensuring a secure and stable supply chain for semiconductors that will support the economic and national security needs of the United States and its allies.
(4)
The supply chain for semiconductors is complex and global. While the United States plays a leading role in certain segments, securing the supply chain requires onshoring, reshoring, and diversifying vulnerable segments, such as for—
(A)
fabrication;
(B)
advanced packaging; and
(C)
material inputs.
(5)
The Federal Government can leverage foreign direct investment and private dollars to grow the domestic manufacturing capacity of the United States for vulnerable segments of the semiconductor supply chain.
(6)
The SelectUSA program of the Department of Commerce, in coordination with other Federal agencies and State-level economic development organizations, is positioned to boost foreign direct investment in domestic manufacturing that will help secure the semiconductor supply chain of the United States.
4.
Coordination with State-level economic development organizations
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Executive Director of SelectUSA shall solicit comments from State-level economic development organizations—
(1)
to assess—
(A)
what efforts those organizations are engaged in to increase foreign direct investment in any segment of semiconductor-related manufacturing and production;
(B)
what tools and resources those organizations have to increase such investment;
(C)
opportunities those organizations have identified to attract foreign direct investment to help increase investment described in subparagraph (A); and
(D)
resource gaps or other challenges that prevent those organizations from increasing such investment; and
(2)
to develop recommendations for how SelectUSA can increase such investment independently or through partnership with those organizations.
5.
Report on increasing foreign direct investment in semiconductor-related manufacturing and production
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Executive Director of SelectUSA, in coordination with the Federal Interagency Investment Working Group established by Executive Order 13577 (76 Fed. Reg. 35,715; relating to establishment of the SelectUSA Initiative), shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
(1)
a review of the comments SelectUSA received from State-level economic development organizations under section 4;
(2)
a description of activities SelectUSA is engaged in to increase foreign direct investment in semiconductor-related manufacturing and production; and
(3)
an assessment of strategies SelectUSA may implement to achieve an increase in such investment and to help secure the United States supply chain for semiconductors, including by—
(A)
working with other relevant Federal agencies; and
(B)
working with State-level economic development organizations and implementing any strategies or recommendations SelectUSA received from those organizations.
