1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam Sacred Lands Act
.
2.
Land held in trust for the Karuk Tribe
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
the Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land is located in the ancestral territory of the Karuk Tribe; and
(2)
the Karuk Tribe has historically used, and has an ongoing relationship with, the Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land
The term
Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land
means the approximately 1,031 acres of Federal land, including improvements and appurtenances to the Federal land, located in Siskiyou County, California, and Humboldt County, California, and generally depicted as
Proposed Area
on the map of the Forest Service entitled
Katimiîn Area Boundary Proposal
and dated August 9, 2021.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(c)
Administrative transfer
Administrative jurisdiction of the Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land is hereby transferred from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary, subject to the condition that the Chief of the Forest Service shall continue to manage the component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that flows through the Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land.
(d)
Land held in trust
The Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land is hereby taken into trust by the Secretary for the benefit of the Karuk Tribe, subject to—
(1)
valid existing rights, contracts, and management agreements relating to easements and rights-of-way; and
(2)
continued access by the Chief of the Forest Service for the purpose of managing the component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that flows through the Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam land.
(e)
Survey
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide to the Secretary a complete survey of the land taken into trust under subsection (d).
(f)
Use of land
(1)
In general
Land taken into trust under subsection (d) may be used for traditional and customary uses for the benefit of the Karuk Tribe.
(2)
Gaming
Class II and class III gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (
25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.
) shall not be allowed on the land taken into trust under subsection (d).
(g)
Wild and Scenic Rivers management
(1)
In general
Nothing in this section affects the status or administration of any component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, including any component that flows through the land taken into trust under subsection (d).
(2)
Memorandum of understanding
The Secretary of Agriculture shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Karuk Tribe, consistent with the obligations of the Secretary of Agriculture under subsection (c), to establish mutual goals for the protection and enhancement of the river values of any component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that flows through the land taken into trust under subsection (d).
