1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Facial Recognition at the IRS Act
.
2.
Prohibition on use of biometric recognition technology by Internal Revenue Service
(a)
In general
Chapter 77
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7531.
Prohibition on use of biometric recognition technology
(a)
In general
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Secretary may not use, or contract to use, biometric recognition technology for purposes of the administration of this title.
(b)
Biometric
For purposes of this section, the term
biometric recognition technology
means any technology that measures a biological (anatomical and physiological) or behavioral characteristic for automated recognition.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 77
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 7531. Prohibition on use of biometric recognition technology.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to filings and transactions in taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2021.
(d)
Disposal of collected information
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury (or such Secretary's delegate) shall ensure that all biometric data collected for purposes of tax administration by the Internal Revenue Service or any party contracting with the Internal Revenue Service has been deleted.
(2)
Report
(A)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury (or such Secretary's delegate) shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the deletion of the data described in paragraph (1).
(B)
Appropriate congressional committees
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(i)
the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
(ii)
the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives;
(iii)
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(iv)
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
