1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Arizona Experiment Station Land Conveyance Act of 2021
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Easement
The term
easement
means an easement to access and use Forest Service Road 9201D from its junction with Forest Service Road 0618 (commonly known as
Beaver Creek
).
(2)
Federal land
The term
Federal land
means the approximately 13.3 acres of National Forest System land within the Coconino National Forest in the State of Arizona, as generally depicted on the map entitled
Act to Convey Certain NFS Land and non-Federal Land in Arizona Winter Quarters
and dated June 20, 2019.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(4)
University
The term
University
means the Arizona Board of Regents, acting on behalf of the University of Arizona Experiment Station.
3.
Coconino National Forest land conveyance
(a)
Conveyance authorized
Subject to this section, if the University submits to the Secretary not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act a written request for the conveyance of the Federal land, the Secretary shall, not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, convey to the University all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to that land, including related infrastructure, improvements, and easements on that land.
(b)
Terms and Conditions
The conveyance authorized under subsection (a) shall be—
(1)
subject to valid existing rights;
(2)
notwithstanding any other provision of law; and
(3)
subject to any other terms and conditions as considered appropriate by the Secretary.
(c)
Forest Service access
The Secretary shall retain all other rights not included in the conveyance authorized under subsection (a) to Forest Service Road 9201D from its junction with Forest Service Road 0618 (commonly known as
Beaver Creek
), including the maintenance of, and continued administrative access to, that road.
(d)
Use of conveyed land
(1)
In general
As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a), the Federal land shall be—
(A)
maintained by the University; and
(B)
used for the purposes of land-grant colleges and universities in accordance with—
(i)
the Act of July 2, 1862 (commonly known as the
First Morrill Act
) (12 Stat. 503, chapter 130;
7 U.S.C. 301
et seq.);
(ii)
the Smith-Lever Act (
7 U.S.C. 341
et seq.); and
(iii)
the Hatch Act of 1887 (
7 U.S.C. 361a
et seq.).
(2)
Reversion
If any portion of the Federal land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner inconsistent with paragraph (1), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.
