1.
Short title
This Act may be known as the
No Most Favored Nation Trading with Russia Act
.
2.
Withdrawal of normal trade relations treatment with the Russian Federation
Notwithstanding the provisions of title I of the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012 (
Public Law 112–208
;
19 U.S.C. 2434
note) or any other provision of law, effective on the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1)
normal trade relations treatment shall not apply pursuant to section 102 of that Act to the products of the Russian Federation; and
(2)
normal trade relations treatment may thereafter be extended to the products of the Russian Federation only in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2431 et seq.
), as in effect with respect to the products of the Russian Federation on the day before the effective date of the accession of the Russian Federation to the World Trade Organization.
3.
Proclamation of tariffs
With regard to products of the Russian Federation, the President may proclaim modifications to the rates set forth in the column 2 rate of duty column of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States if the President determines that the modifications are necessary for the protection of the essential security of the United States.
4.
Cooperation with United States allies and partners
(a)
In general
The President shall encourage allies and partners of the United States—
(1)
to consider taking actions similar to the actions taken under section 2, such as the withdrawal of permanent normal trade relations treatment for products of the Russian Federation; and
(2)
to condemn at the World Trade Organization the recent aggression by the Government of the Russian Federation in Ukraine.
(b)
Accountability at the WTO
The President shall direct the Permanent Mission of the United States to the World Trade Organization to use the voice and influence of the United States at the World Trade Organization to seek the suspension of the membership of the Russian Federation in the World Trade Organization.
