1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Lowering Federal Usage of Energy to Lessen Costs Act of 2022
or the
Lowering FUEL Costs Act of 2022
.
2.
Strategies to reduce the cost of transportation fuels in the United States
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of General Services.
(2)
Chair
The term
Chair
means the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality.
(3)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(4)
Strategies
The term
strategies
means the short-term and long-term strategies to reduce the cost of transportation fuels for consumers in the United States through Federal conservation developed under subsection (b).
(5)
Transportation fuel
The term
transportation fuel
has the meaning given the term in section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)
).
(b)
Development of strategies
(1)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director, the Administrator, and the Chair, in coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall develop and publicly release short-term and long-term coordinated strategies to reduce the cost of transportation fuels for consumers in the United States through Federal conservation.
(2)
Inclusions
The strategies shall include—
(A)
a plan on how the General Services Administration can reduce, for the period during which the average cost of transportation fuel in the United States is greater than the average price of that fuel on December 1, 2021, the usage of transportation fuels by vehicles in the Federal fleet by 10 percent below the average amount of transportation fuels used by those vehicles in 2019, subject to the condition that the plan shall not apply to transportation fuels needed for national defense, homeland security, or law enforcement purposes of the United States; and
(B)
recommendations to Congress on any legislation, authorities, or administrative actions necessary to reduce the cost of transportation fuels for consumers in the United States.
(c)
Implementation of short-Term strategies
Not later than 3 months after the date on which the short-term strategies developed under subsection (b) are publicly released, the Director, the Administrator, and the Chair, in coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall begin to implement those short-term strategies.
(d)
Savings clause
The strategies developed under subsection (b) shall not apply to—
(1)
vehicles in the Federal fleet that are not under the management of the Administrator; or
(2)
vehicles under the management of the United States Postal Service.
