1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sangre de Cristo Wilderness Additions Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2)
Wilderness addition
The term
wilderness addition
means land added to the Sangre de Cristo Wilderness by the amendment made by section 3.
3.
Amendment to the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993
Section 2(a)(10) of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (
16 U.S.C. 1132
note;
Public Law 103–77
) is amended by striking
1993,
and inserting
1993, and certain Federal land in the Rio Grande National Forest that comprises approximately 40,038 acres, as generally depicted as
Wilderness Additions
on the map entitled
Sangre de Cristo Wilderness Additions
and dated March 21, 2019,
.
4.
Map
(a)
In general
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file with the appropriate committees of Congress a map and legal description of the wilderness additions.
(b)
Public availability
The map and legal description filed under subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest Service, the office of the Supervisor of the Rio Grande National Forest, and the office of the Supervisor of the San Isabel National Forest.
(c)
Force of law
The map and legal description filed under subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct typographical errors in the map and legal description.
5.
Administration of wilderness additions
(a)
In general
Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the wilderness additions in accordance with the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.) and this Act, except that, with respect to a wilderness addition, any reference in the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.) to the effective date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Fire, insects, and diseases
In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)
), within the wilderness additions, the Secretary may take such measures as are necessary to control fire, insects, and diseases, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(c)
Recreational climbing
Nothing in this Act or an amendment made by this Act prohibits recreational rock climbing activities in the wilderness additions, such as the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed anchors, including any fixed anchor established before the date of enactment of this Act—
(1)
in accordance with the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.); and
(2)
subject to any terms and conditions determined to be necessary by the Secretary.
(d)
Grazing
The grazing of livestock in a wilderness addition, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations as are determined to be necessary by the Secretary, in accordance with section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)
).
(e)
Military overflights
Nothing in this Act restricts or precludes—
(1)
low-level overflights of military aircraft over the wilderness additions, including military overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness additions;
(2)
flight testing and evaluation; or
(3)
the designation or creation of new units of special use airspace, or the establishment of military flight training routes, over the wilderness additions.
(f)
Commercial services
Commercial services (including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the wilderness additions may be authorized to the extent necessary for activities that are appropriate for the recreational or other wilderness purposes of the wilderness additions, in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)
).
