1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hurricane Dorian Charitable Giving Act
.
2.
Temporary increase in limitation on deductible contributions made for relief efforts related to Hurricane Dorian
(a)
Suspension of current limitation
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), qualified contributions shall be disregarded in applying subsections (b) and (d) of
section 170
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b)
Application of increased limitation
For purposes of
section 170
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986—
(1)
Individuals
In the case of an individual—
(A)
Limitation
Any qualified contribution shall be allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate of such contributions does not exceed the excess of the taxpayer's contribution base (as defined in subparagraph (H) of section 170(b)(1) of such Code) over the amount of all other charitable contributions allowed under section 170(b)(1) of such Code.
(B)
Carryover
If the aggregate amount of qualified contributions made in the contribution year (within the meaning of section 170(d)(1) of such Code) exceeds the limitation of subparagraph (A), such excess shall be added to the excess described in section 170(b)(1)(G)(ii).
(2)
Corporations
In the case of a corporation—
(A)
Limitation
Any qualified contribution shall be allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate of such contributions does not exceed the excess of the taxpayer’s taxable income (as determined under paragraph (2) of section 170(b) of such Code) over the amount of all other charitable contributions allowed under such paragraph.
(B)
Carryover
If the aggregate amount of qualified contributions made in the contribution year (within the meaning of section 170(d)(2) of such Code) exceeds the limitation of subparagraph (A), such excess shall be appropriately taken into account under section 170(d)(2) subject to the limitations thereof.
(c)
Qualified contributions
(1)
In general
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified contribution
means any charitable contribution (as defined in
section 170(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) if—
(A)
such contribution—
(i)
is made after August 23, 2019, and before January 1, 2020, in cash to an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A) of such Code; and
(ii)
is made for relief efforts related to Hurricane Dorian;
(B)
the taxpayer obtains from such organization contemporaneous written acknowledgment (within the meaning of section 170(f)(8) of such Code) that such contribution was used (or is to be used) for relief efforts described in subparagraph (A)(ii); and
(C)
the taxpayer has elected the application of this subsection with respect to such contribution.
(2)
Exception
Such term shall not include a contribution by a donor if the contribution is—
(A)
to an organization described in
section 509(a)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
(B)
for the establishment of a new, or maintenance of an existing, donor advised fund (as defined in section 4966(d)(2) of such Code).
(3)
Application of election to partnerships and S corporations
In the case of a partnership or S corporation, the election under paragraph (1)(C) shall be made separately by each partner or shareholder.
