1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Operation Stonegarden Authorization Act
.
2.
Operation Stonegarden
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 601
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
2009.
Operation Stonegarden
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department a program, which shall be known as
Operation Stonegarden
, under which the Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall make grants to eligible law enforcement agencies to enhance border security in accordance with this section.
(b)
Eligible recipients
A law enforcement agency is eligible to receive a grant under this section if the agency—
(1)
is located in—
(A)
a State bordering Canada or Mexico; or
(B)
a State or territory with a maritime border; and
(2)
is involved in an active, ongoing, U.S. Customs and Border Protection operation coordinated through a U.S. Border Patrol sector office.
(c)
Permitted uses
Grant funds received under this section may be used by the grant recipient for—
(1)
equipment, including maintenance and sustainment costs;
(2)
personnel, including overtime and backfill, in support of enhanced border law enforcement activities;
(3)
any activity permitted for Operation Stonegarden under the Department of Homeland Security’s most recent Homeland Security Grant Program Notice of Funding Opportunity; and
(4)
any other appropriate activity, as determined by the Administrator, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(d)
Period of performance
The Secretary shall award grants under this section to grant recipients for a period of not less than 36 months.
(e)
Report
The Administrator shall submit a report, for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
that contains information on the expenditure of grants made under this section by each grant recipient.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $110,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024 for grants under this section.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 2002(a) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 603(a)
) is amended to read as follows:
(a)
Grants authorized
The Secretary, through the Administrator, may award grants under sections 2003, 2004, and 2009 to State, local, and tribal governments, as appropriate.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2008 the following:
Sec. 2009. Operation Stonegarden.
.
