1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hand Sanitizer Guidance Extension Act of 2020
.
2.
Federal guidance on hand sanitizer
(a)
Extension of Federal guidance
The Food and Drug Administration guidance entitled
Guidance for Industry: Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol-Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency (COVID–19)
, initially released on March 23, 2020, and updated on April 15, 2020, and on June 1, 2020, shall remain in effect until the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(b)
Effect of extension
During the 2-year period described in subsection (a), the Food and Drug Administration shall permit the production, sale, and use of hand sanitizer, consistent with the guidance described in subsection (a), provided that such hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following ingredients in the preparation of the product:
(1)
(A)
Subject to subsection (c), alcohol (ethanol) that is not less than 94.9 percent ethanol by volume; or
(B)
United States Pharmacopeia grade isopropyl alcohol.
(2)
United States Pharmacopeia grade or Food Chemical Codex grade glycerin (glycerol).
(3)
Hydrogen peroxide.
(4)
Sterile water meeting United States Pharmacopeia specifications for purified water.
(c)
Ethanol produced in certain facilities
Ethanol produced in facilities normally producing fuel or technical ethanol may be used as described in subsection (b)(1)(A) only if such ethanol—
(1)
meets United States Pharmacopeia or Food Chemical Codex grade requirements;
(2)
has been screened for any other potentially harmful impurities not specified in the United States Pharmacopeia or Food Chemical Codex requirements; or
(3)
has otherwise been approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration.
(d)
Automatic extension
The effective period of the guidance described in subsection (a) shall automatically be extended for 1 additional year if the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that a public health emergency exists at the time that the 2-year period described in subsection (a) expires.
(e)
Exemption
If the Commissioner of Food and Drugs determines that a public health emergency requires that the requirement for the use of denatured alcohol be reduced, or requires a waiver of any other requirement with respect to hand sanitizer under the guidance, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs may waive or reduce such requirement, as applicable.
