1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Expand and Launch Transitional Health for Women Veterans Act
or
HEALTH Act
.
2.
Continuation of Women’s Health Transition Training pilot program of Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Duration
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out the Women’s Health Transition Training pilot program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (in this section referred to as the
pilot program
) until at least September 30, 2020.
(b)
Report
Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the pilot program that includes the following:
(1)
The number of women members of the Armed Forces, disaggregated by military department (with respect to the Department of the Navy, dis­ag­gre­gated by the Navy and Marine Corps), who participated in the pilot program.
(2)
The number of courses held under the pilot program.
(3)
The locations at which such courses were held, the number of seats available for such courses, and the number of participants at each such location.
(4)
With respect to the number of members of the Armed Forces who participated in the pilot program as specified under paragraph (1)—
(A)
the number who enrolled in the health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705(a) of title 38, United States Code; and
(B)
the number who attended at least one health care appointment at a medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(5)
Data relating to—
(A)
satisfaction with courses held under the pilot program;
(B)
improved awareness of health care services administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
(C)
any other available statistics regarding the pilot program.
(6)
A discussion of regulatory, legal, or resource barriers to—
(A)
making the pilot program permanent to enable access to services provided under the pilot program by a greater number of women members of the Armed Forces at locations throughout the United States;
(B)
offering the pilot program online for women members of the Armed Forces who are unable to attend courses held under the pilot program in person; and
(C)
the feasability of automatically enrolling pilot program participants in the health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705(a) of title 38, United States Code.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
