1.
Short titles
This Act may be cited as the
Combating Chinese Propaganda Act
or the
CCP Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Propaganda
The term
propaganda
means the propagation of an idea or narrative, especially of a biased or misleading nature that is intended to influence, promote, or publicize a particular cause or point of view.
(2)
United states company
The term
United States company
has the meaning given such term in section 4(a) of the
Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016
(
34 U.S.C. 41310(a)
).
3.
Prohibition against companies doing business in the United States making public statements or taking actions at the behest of the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), it shall be unlawful for any United States company or foreign-owned company doing business in the United States from cooperating with any effort by the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China to coerce such companyГўВҖВ”
(1)
to make public statements through traditional media, social media, or advertising campaigns that reflect propaganda pushed by the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China;
(2)
to take other actions contrary to their fiduciary interests at the behest of the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China; or
(3)
to furnish personal information regarding Chinese dissidents to the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China.
(b)
Exceptions
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply to compliance with standard regulatory requirements imposed by the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China that are necessary to protect the health or safety of the general public.
(c)
Reporting requirement
(1)
In general
Any United States company or foreign-owned company doing business in the United States shall report to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce each instance in which the Government of the PeopleГўВҖВҷs Republic of China has pressured such company to violate the prohibition under subsection (a).
(2)
Quarterly report
The Secretary of Commerce shall submit a quarterly report to Congress that summarizes all of the incidents reported under paragraph (1) during such quarter.
(d)
Penalties
(1)
Civil penalty
Any United States company or foreign-owned company that fails to comply with the reporting requirements set forth in subsection (c) shall be subject to a civil penalty equal to not more than $250,000.
(2)
Criminal penalty
If any official of a United States company or foreign-owned company knowingly violates, or authorizes the violation of, subsection (a)ГўВҖВ”
(A)
the company shall be subject to a criminal penalty of not more than $1,000,000 for each such violation; and
(B)
such official may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years.
