Whereas the Honorable Orrin G. Hatch was elected to the Senate in 1976 and served Utah in the Senate with devotion and distinction for 42 years, which is the ninth longest term of service in the history of the Senate;
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch served as the Chairman of 3 significant Senate committees, including—
(1)
the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate (now called the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate
);
(2)
the
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate
; and
(3)
the
Committee on Finance of the Senate
;
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch dedicated his time in the Senate to strengthening the economy of the United States, protecting individual liberty, and safeguarding the system of limited government of the United States;
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch served throughout his career with determination, loyalty, diligence, compassion, a pioneering spirit, and an incredible devotion to his faith;
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch was regarded by many as an elder statesman who worked across the aisle to pass 750 bills into law, including—
(1)
the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (
42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.
);
(2)
the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (
Public Law 98–417
; 98 Stat. 1585) (commonly referred to as the
Hatch-Waxman Act
);
(3)
the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (
Public Law 105–33
; 111 Stat. 215), which established the State Children’s Health Insurance Program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.
);
(4)
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
); and
(5)
the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (
42 U.S.C. 2210
note);
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch, in addition to his prolific legislative achievements, assisted tens of thousands of Utahns through individual casework over more than four decades of public service;
Whereas Orrin G. Hatch established the Orrin G. Hatch Foundation to encourage commonsense policymaking, to cultivate bipartisan dialogue, and to provide educational opportunities for future generations; and
Whereas, on April 23, 2022, at the age of 88, Orrin G. Hatch died, leaving behind his wife Elaine, his 6 loving children, dozens of grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and a legacy of steadfast love for and service to the people of the United States, particularly Utahns: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the Senate—
(A)
has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the announcement of the death of the Honorable Orrin G. Hatch, former United States Senator for the State of Utah;
(B)
honors the life and legacy of the late Senator Orrin G. Hatch for his—
(i)
unwavering dedication to Utah as a Senator and a public servant; and
(ii)
accomplishments in legislating with principle and dedication for the good of the people of the United States; and
(C)
requests that the Secretary of the Senate communicate this resolution to the House of Representatives and transmit an enrolled copy thereof to the family of Orrin G. Hatch; and
(2)
when the Senate adjourns today, it stands adjourned as a further mark of respect to the memory of Orrin G. Hatch.
