GENERAL ORDERS NO. 16.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE  ,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE,

 ,  .

1. The following order of   is published to the  :

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 

,

 .

The death of General   is hereby announced in the fitting words of the President in his message to  :

The following   order will be published to the  :

EXECUTIVE  ,

 .

 .

It is my painful duty to announce to the country that General   died   at 1 o'clock and 50 minutes p.m., at his residence in the city of  . The Secretary of War will cause the highest military honors to be paid to the memory of this distinguished officer. The national flag will be floated at half-mast over all public buildings until after the burial, and the public business will be suspended in   at the city of   and in the city where the interment takes place on   of the funeral and in all places where public expression is given to the national sorrow during such hours as will enable every officer and employee to participate therein with their fellow-citizens.

 . HARRISON

The Major-General Commanding will issue the necessary orders to the  .

It is ordered

, That   be draped in mourning for  , and that all business be suspended therein on   of the funeral.

 ,

Acting Secretary of War.

II. On   of the funeral the troops at every military post will be paraded and this order read to them, after which all labors for   will cease. The national flag will be displayed at half-staff from the time of the receipt of this order until the close of the funeral. On   of the funeral a salute of seventeen guns will be fired at half-hour intervals, commencing at 8 o'clock a.m. The officers of the   will wear the usual badges of mourning, and the colors of the several regiments and battalions will be draped in mourning for    .

  and hour of the funeral will be communicated to department commanders by telegraph, and by them to their subordinate commanders. Other necessary orders will be issued hereafter relative to the appropriate funeral ceremonies.

By command of    :

 ,

Adjutant-General.
