GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 4

HEADQUARTERS OF THE  ,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE

I. The following proclamation (order) has been received from the President:

EXECUTIVE  ,

 .

 .

To  :

The death of  , who was President of   from  , to  , at his home in  ,  , at 11 p.m.  , is an event the announcement of which will be received with very general and very sincere sorrow. His public service extended   and over a wide range of official duty. He was a patriotic citizen, a lover of the flag and of our free institutions, an industrious and conscientious civil officer, a soldier of dauntless courage, a loyal comrade and friend, a sympathetic and helpful neighbor, and the honored head of a happy   home. He has steadily grown in the public esteem, and the impartial historian will not fail to recognize the conscientiousness, the manliness, and the courage that so strongly characterized his whole public career.

As an expression of the public sorrow it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several Executive Departments at   be draped in mourning and the flags thereon placed at half-staff for a period of  , and that on   of the funeral all public business in the   be suspended, and that suitable military and naval honors, under the orders of the Secretaries of War and of the  , be rendered on  .

Done at the city of  ,  , and of   the one hundred and seventeenth.

 . HARRISON

By the President.

 ,

Secretary of  .

II. In compliance with the instructions of the President, on   of the funeral, at each military post, the troops and cadets will be paraded and this order read to them, after which all labors of   will cease.

The national flag will be displayed at half-staff.

At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting of the sun a single gun, and at the close of   a national salute of forty-four guns.

The officers of the   will wear crape on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of  , of the several regiments, and of   will be put in mourning for    .

The date of the funeral will be communicated to department commanders by telegraph, and by them to their subordinate commanders.

By command of    :

 ,

Adjutant-General.
