117 SCON 33 IS: Commending the heroism of Olathe East High School Administrator Dr. Kaleb Stoppel and School Resource Officer Erik Clark in responding to a student armed with a firearm.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 33
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 10 (legislative day, March 7), 2022
Mr. Moran
(for himself and
Mr. Marshall
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Commending the heroism of Olathe East High School Administrator Dr. Kaleb Stoppel and School Resource Officer Erik Clark in responding to a student armed with a firearm.
Whereas, on Friday, March 4, 2022, 2 employees of Olathe East High School in Olathe, Kansas, Administrator Dr. Kaleb Stoppel (referred to in this preamble as
Dr. Stoppel
) and School Resource Officer Erik Clark (referred to in this preamble as
Officer Clark
), were shot and wounded while engaging with an armed student;
Whereas the decision of Dr. Stoppel to remove the student from class and the swift response of Officer Clark to neutralize the student after he began shooting prevented the loss of innocent lives at Olathe East High School;
Whereas Officer Clark has been a school resource officer at Olathe East High School for 7 years and a law enforcement officer for 15 years; and
Whereas Dr. Stoppel has been an Assistant Principal and the Athletic Director of Olathe East High School for nearly 4 years and an educator for nearly 13 years: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commends Administrator Dr. Kaleb Stoppel and School Resource Officer Erik Clark for their heroic actions to protect students and staff of Olathe East High School; and
(2)
recognizes Administrator Dr. Kaleb Stoppel and School Resource Officer Erik Clark for their years of dedication and service to their community as an educator and a member of law enforcement, respectively.
