1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as
the
Veterans Health Care Eligibility
Expansion and Enhancement Act of 2013
.
2.
Enhancement of
nature of eligibility for care of certain veterans
Section
1710(a)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
may,
to the extent resources and facilities are available and
and inserting
shall,
.
3.
Requirement for
enrollment in patient enrollment system of Department of Veterans Affairs of certain
veterans eligible for enrollment by law but not currently permitted to
enroll
(a)
Requirement for
enrollment
Section 1705 of
title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(d)
(1)
The Secretary shall
provide for the enrollment in the patient enrollment system of veterans
specified in paragraph (2) by not later than December 31, 2014.
(2)
Veterans specified in this
paragraph are as follows:
(A)
Veterans with noncompensable
service-connected disabilities rated as zero percent disabling who—
(i)
are not otherwise permitted to
enroll in the system as of the date of the enactment of the Veterans Health
Care Eligibility Expansion and Enhancement Act of 2013; and
(ii)
as of the date of
enrollment under this section, do not have access to health
insurance except through a health exchange established pursuant to section 1311 of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18031
).
(B)
Veterans without service-connected
disability who—
(i)
are not otherwise permitted to
enroll in the system as of the date of the enactment of the Veterans Health
Care Eligibility Expansion and Enhancement Act of 2013; and
(ii)
as of the date of
enrollment under this section, do not have access to health
insurance except through a health exchange established pursuant to section 1311 of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
(3)
The Secretary shall determine whether
a veteran does not have access to health insurance except through a health
exchange for purposes of paragraph (2) using information obtained by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of the Treasury for
purposes of determining whether the veteran maintains minimum essential coverage
as required by
section 5000A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and reported as required by
section 6055
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(4)
A veteran who, after enrolling in the
patient enrollment system pursuant to this subsection, obtains access to health
insurance other than through a health exchange shall remain enrolled in the
patient enrollment system notwithstanding obtaining access to such health
insurance.
(5)
A veteran enrolled in the patient enrollment system pursuant to this subsection shall maintain the priority for care of the veteran at the time of enrollment unless and until a change in circumstances of the veteran results in a higher priority for care of the veteran under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Public notice
of commencement of enrollment
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall publish in the Federal Register, and shall make available to the public
on an Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs, a notice regarding the date on which veterans covered by subsection (d)
of
section 1705
of title 38, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of
this section), may commence enrollment in the patient enrollment system
required by that section.
4.
Further extension of period of eligibility for health care for veterans of combat service during certain periods of hostilities and war
Section 1710(e)(3)
of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
the date that is five years before the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, after a period of five years
and inserting
January 27, 2003, after a period of 10 years
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
more than five years
and all that follows and inserting
before January 28, 2003, and who did not enroll in the patient enrollment system under section 1705 of this title before January 28, 2008, after January 27, 2018.
.
5.
Relocation and
restatement of limitation on requirements to furnish certain care and services
contingent on the availability of appropriations
(a)
Relocation and
restatement
Section 1707
of title 38, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
(1)
The requirements
specified in paragraph (2) shall be effective in any fiscal year only to the
extent and in the amount provided in advance in appropriations Acts for such
purposes.
(2)
The requirements specified in this
paragraph are as follows:
(A)
The requirement in paragraphs (1),
(2), and (3) of
section 1710(a)
of this title that the Secretary provide
hospital care and medical services.
(B)
The requirement in section 1710A(a) of
this title that the Secretary provide nursing home care.
(C)
The requirement in section 1710B of
this title that the Secretary provide a program of extended care
services.
(D)
The requirement in section 1745 of
this title that the Secretary provide nursing home care and prescription
medicines to veterans with service-connected disabilities in State
homes.
.
(b)
Conforming
repeal of superseded limitation
Section 1710(a) of such title is
amended—
(1)
by striking
paragraph (4); and
(2)
by redesignating
paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).
6.
Modification of
determination of eligibility of veterans for treatment as a low-income family
for purposes of enrollment in the patient enrollment system of the Department
of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Areas of
residence
The Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall modify the areas in which veterans reside as specified
for purposes of determining whether veterans qualify for treatment as
low-income families for enrollment in the patient enrollment system of the
Department of Veterans Affairs under
section 1705(a)(7)
of title 38, United
States Code, to meet the requirements as follows:
(1)
Any area so
specified shall be within only one State.
(2)
Any area so
specified shall be co-extensive with one or more counties (or similar political
subdivisions) in the State concerned.
(b)
Variable income
thresholds
The Secretary shall modify the thresholds for income
as specified for purposes of determining whether veterans qualify for treatment
as low-income families for enrollment in the patient enrollment system referred
to in subsection (a) to meet the requirements as follows:
(1)
There shall be one income threshold for each State, equal to the highest income threshold among the counties within such State.
(2)
The calculation of the highest income threshold of a county shall be consistent with the calculation used for purposes of section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)
).
(3)
The timing and methodology for implementing any modifications in geographic income thresholds pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined by the Secretary in such a manner as to permit the Department to build capacity for enrolling such additional veterans in the patient enrollment system of the Department as become eligible for enrollment as a result of such modifications, except that all required modifications shall be completed not later than five years after date of the enactment of this Act.
7.
Contracting for
health care
(a)
Use of
capitation-Based resource allocation in entry into contracts
In
entering into contracts for the furnishing of health care services under the
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (including under this
Act and the amendments made by this Act), the Secretary shall use the
capitation-based resource allocation model of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
(b)
Priority for
contracts with certain entities
In entering into contracts for
the furnishing of health care services under the laws administered by the
Secretary, the Secretary shall afford a priority for entry into contracts for
Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) and Community Health Centers (CHCs),
whenever appropriate.
(c)
Best
practices
The Secretary shall modify the guidance of the
Department of Veterans Affairs on contracts for health care services in order
to provide for the incorporation into such contracts of standardized
requirements for such best practices under such contracts, including the
following:
(1)
Requirements that
contracts provide the Department on a regular basis information on scheduling
and appearance for appointments for health care on a per-patient basis.
(2)
Such other best
practices requirements as the Secretary considers appropriate.
