Executive Order—To Reestablish the Authority of   and Execute the Laws Within the Geographical Limits Known as  
 
 

Ordered

, first. That all acts and proceedings of the political, military, and civil organizations which have been in a state of insurrection and rebellion within   against the authority and laws of  , and of which  ,  , and   were late the respective chiefs, are declared null and void. All persons who shall exercise, claim, pretend, or attempt to exercise any political, military, or civil power, authority, jurisdiction, or right by, through, or under  , late of the city of  , and his confederates, or under   or   and their confederates, or under any pretended political, military, or civil commission or authority issued by them or either of them since  , shall be deemed and taken as in rebellion against  , and shall be dealt with accordingly.

Second. That the Secretary of   proceed to put in force all laws of   the administration whereof belongs to   applicable to the geographical limits aforesaid.

Third. That the Secretary of the   proceed without delay to nominate for appointment assessors of taxes and collectors of customs and internal revenue and such other officers of   as are authorized by law, and shall put in execution the revenue laws of   within the geographical limits aforesaid. In making appointments the preference shall be given to qualified loyal persons residing within the districts where their respective duties are to be performed; but if suitable persons shall not be found residents of the districts, then persons residing in other   or districts shall be appointed.

Fourth. That   shall proceed to establish post-offices and post routes and put into execution the postal laws of   within the said  , giving to loyal residents the preference of appointment; but if suitable persons are not found, then to appoint agents, etc., from other  .

Fifth. That the district judge of said district proceed to hold courts within said   in accordance with the provisions of the act of  . The Attorney-General will instruct the proper officers to libel and bring to judgment, confiscation, and sale property subject to confiscation, and enforce the administration of justice within said   in all matters, civil and criminal, within the cognizance and jurisdiction of the   courts.

Sixth. That the Secretary of War assign such assistant provost-marshal-general and such provost-marshals in each district of said   as he may deem necessary.

Seventh. The Secretary of the   will take possession of all public property belonging to the   within said geographical limits and put in operation all acts of   in relation to naval affairs having application to the said  .

Eighth. The Secretary of the   will also put in force the laws relating to  .

Ninth. That to carry into effect the guaranty by the Federal Constitution of a   form of   government and afford the advantage and security of domestic laws, as well as to complete the reestablishment of the authority and laws of   and the full and complete restoration of peace within the limits aforesaid,  , governor of  , will be aided by   so far as may be necessary in the lawful measures which he may take for the extension and administration of the   government throughout the geographical limits of said  .

In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of   to be affixed.

 .

By the President:

 ,

Acting Secretary of  .
