Whereas James G. Abourezk was born in Wood, South Dakota, to Lebanese immigrants in 1931;
Whereas James G. Abourezk earned a degree in civil engineering from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, graduated from the University of South Dakota School of Law, and practiced law in Rapid City, South Dakota;
Whereas James G. Abourezk served in the United States Navy from 1948 to 1952;
Whereas James G. Abourezk was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1970 and represented the State of South Dakota from 1971 to 1973;
Whereas James G. Abourezk was elected to the United States Senate in 1972, representing the State of South Dakota from 1973 to 1979, and was the first Arab American to serve in the United States Senate;
Whereas James G. Abourezk re-established the
Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate
, serving as the first Chair of the Committee after re-establishment;
Whereas James G. Abourezk co-authored and worked to pass
Public Law 95–341
(commonly known as the
American Indian Religious Freedom Act
) (
42 U.S.C. 1996 et seq.
), the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (
25 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.
), and the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.
);
Whereas James G. Abourezk, after leaving the Senate, co-founded and was the first chair of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee;
Whereas James G. Abourezk served as the first Attorney General of the Navajo Nation from 1982 to 1983; and
Whereas James G. Abourezk continued to advocate on behalf of Native American communities after his retirement: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the Senate—
(A)
has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the announcement of the death of James G. Abourezk, former member of the United States Senate and the House of Representatives;
(B)
honors the life and legacy of James G. Abourezk for his unwavering dedication to South Dakota as a public servant and his accomplishments in legislating with principle and dedication for the good of the people of the United States; and
(C)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate communicate this resolution to the House of Representatives and transmit an enrolled copy thereof to the family of James G. Abourezk; and
(2)
when the Senate adjourns today, it stand adjourned as a further mark of respect to the memory of James G. Abourezk.
