115 SJ 58 IS: To require certifications regarding actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen, and for other purposes.
U.S. Senate
2018-04-11
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IIA
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. J. RES. 58
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 11, 2018
Mr. Young
(for himself,
Mrs. Shaheen
,
Ms. Collins
, and
Mr. Coons
) introduced the following joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
JOINT RESOLUTION
To require certifications regarding actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen, and for other purposes.
1.
Certifications regarding actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen
(a)
Initial certification
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a certification whether the Government of Saudi Arabia is undertaking—
(1)
an urgent and good faith effort to conduct diplomatic negotiations to end the civil war in Yemen;
(2)
appropriate measures to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Yemen by increasing access for Yemenis to food, fuel, and medicine, including through Yemen’s Red Sea ports, the airport in Sana’a, and external border crossings with Saudi Arabia; and
(3)
demonstrable action to reduce the risk of harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure resulting from its military operations in Yemen, including by complying with applicable agreements and laws regulating defense articles purchased or transferred from the United States.
(b)
Subsequent certifications
Not later than 180 and 360 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a certification whether the Government of Saudi Arabia is undertaking the efforts described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a).
(c)
Restriction
If the Secretary of State is unable under subsections (a) and (b) to certify that the Government of Saudi Arabia is taking demonstrable action as described in subsection (a), no Federal funds may be obligated or expended to provide in-flight refueling, pursuant to any agreement authorized by section 2342 of title 10, United States Code, or other applicable statutory authority, of Saudi and Saudi-led coalition non-United States aircraft conducting missions in Yemen other than missions related to—
(1)
al Qaeda, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS);
(2)
countering the transport, assembly, or employment of ballistic missiles or components in Yemen;
(3)
helping coalition aircraft return safely to base in emergency situations; or
(4)
force protection of United States aircraft, ships, or personnel.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this joint resolution may be construed as authorizing the use of military force.
(e)
Form of certifications
The certifications required under subsections (a) and (b) shall be written, detailed, and submitted in unclassified form.
(f)
Strategy required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an unclassified report listing United States objectives in Yemen and detailing a strategy to accomplish those objectives. The report shall be unclassified but may include a classified annex.
(g)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
