1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
War Powers Against Non-State Actors Act of 2014
.
2.
Use of military force against non-state actors
The War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 5 (50
U.S.C. 1544) the following section:
5a.
Non-state actors
(a)
Termination of use of United States armed forces; exceptions
In the event that a report submitted by the President to Congress consistent with the requirements
of section 4 relates to the use of the United States Armed Forces against
a non-state organization or entity—
(1)
the requirement in section 5(b) shall not apply; and
(2)
not later than 60 days after the date on which the President submits the report, the President
shall terminate the use of the Armed Forces of the United States unless—
(A)
the legal authority under which the President has made the approval is a law providing
authority to use the Armed Forces of the United States against the
non-state organization or entity; or
(B)
(i)
the President notifies Congress that continuing military action is necessary because the non-state
organization or entity is a terrorist organization that poses a continuing
and imminent threat to the United States and United States persons; and
(ii)
Congress does not enact a joint resolution disapproving such report pursuant to subsection (b).
(b)
Expedited procedures for joint resolution
(1)
Joint resolution described
For purposes of this section, the term
joint resolution
means only a joint resolution which is introduced within the 10-day period beginning on the date
on which the President submits a notification pursuant to subsection
(a)(2)(B)(i), the matter after the resolving clause of which is as
follows:
That Congress disapproves the authorization to use for the Armed Forces of the United States to use
direct action as submitted by the President in the notification submitted
to Congress on ______
, the blank space being filled in with the appropriate date.
(2)
Applicable procedures
Any joint resolution introduced pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the congressional
priority procedures established for concurrent resolutions in section 7
and section 1013 of the Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal
Years 1984 and 1985 (
50 U.S.C. 1546a
), except that such resolution shall
not be subject to amendment.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section is intended to alter the constitutional authority of Congress or the
President.
.
