1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Petroleum Coke Transparency and Public
Health Study Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In the past
several years, United States crude oil refineries have grown their coking
capacity to accommodate the conversion of heavy crude oils into refined
petroleum products.
(2)
As coking
capacity has grown, the domestic production of petroleum coke is expected to
grow, leading to increases in the storage, transportation, and use of the
material.
(3)
In Detroit, piles of petroleum coke have
been stored in the open air on the banks of the Detroit River.
(4)
State regulators, communities, and industry
stakeholders would benefit from a complete understanding of petroleum coke and
the potential impact on public health and the environment related to the
production, transportation, storage, and use of petroleum coke.
3.
Study of
petroleum coke public health and environmental impacts
(a)
In
general
Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency and the Secretary of Energy, shall transmit to Congress the
results of a study concerning petroleum coke that shall include the
following:
(1)
An analysis of
the public health and environmental impacts of the production, transportation,
storage, and use of petroleum coke.
(2)
An assessment of
potential approaches and best practices for storing, transporting, and managing
petroleum coke.
(3)
A quantitative
analysis of current and projected domestic petroleum coke production and
utilization locations.
(b)
Best available
science
The study under subsection (a) shall be carried out using
the best available science with the solicitation of readily available
information from appropriate State agencies, nonprofit entities, academic
entities, and industry.
4.
Consolidation of
petroleum coke research
Not
later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall compile and publish on a publicly available
website the results of the study conducted under section 3.
