1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Heroes Fly
Act
.
2.
Facilitation of
passenger screening for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed
Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans
(a)
In
general
Subchapter I of
chapter 449
of title 49,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
44927.
Facilitation
of passenger screening for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed
Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans
(a)
Passenger
screening
The Assistant
Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration), in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
and organizations described in subsection (b), shall develop and implement a
process to support severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and
severely injured or disabled veterans during, and to facilitate the movement of
such members and veterans through, the screening of passengers before boarding
passenger aircraft required by section 44901(a) (in this section referred to as
passenger screening
). The process required under this subsection
shall include offering private screening for such members and veterans to the
maximum extent practicable.
(b)
Organizations
described
Organizations described in this subsection are
organizations identified by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs that advocate on behalf of severely injured or disabled
members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans.
(c)
Operations
center
As part of the process
required under subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall maintain an
operations center to provide support for severely injured or disabled members
of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans during, and to
facilitate the movement of such members and veterans through, passenger
screening.
(d)
Protocols
The
Assistant Secretary shall—
(1)
establish and publish protocols, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
and organizations described in subsection (b), under which a severely injured
or disabled member of the Armed Forces or severely injured or disabled veteran,
or the family member or other representative of such a member or veteran, may
contact the operations center maintained under subsection (c) and request
support during and facilitation of passenger screening for the member or
veteran; and
(2)
upon receipt of such a request, require the
operations center to notify the appropriate Federal Security Director of the
request.
(e)
Training
The
Assistant Secretary shall integrate training on the protocols established under
subsection (c) into the training provided to all employees who will regularly
conduct passenger screening.
(f)
Rule of
construction
Nothing in this section affects the authority of the
Assistant Secretary to require additional screening of a severely injured or
disabled member of the Armed Forces or a severely injured or disabled veteran
if intelligence, law enforcement, or other information indicates that
additional screening is necessary.
(g)
Report
Not
later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, and
annually thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to Congress a report
on the implementation of this section. Each such report shall include each of
the following:
(1)
Information on the
training provided under subsection (d).
(2)
Information on the consultations between
the Assistant Secretary and organizations described in subsection (b).
(3)
The number of
people who accessed the operations center during the period covered by the
report.
(4)
Such other
information as the Assistant Secretary determines is
appropriate.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 44926 the following
new item:
44927. Facilitation of passenger screening
for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely
injured or disabled
veterans.
.
