1.
Survey of preferences of members of the Armed Forces regarding military pay and benefits
(a)
Survey required
The Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission shall carry out an anonymous
survey of random members of the Armed Forces
regarding their preferences in military pay and benefits.
(b)
Elements
The survey under this section shall be conducted for the purpose of soliciting information on the
following:
(1)
The value that members of the Armed Forces place on the following forms of compensation relative to
one another:
(A)
Basic pay.
(B)
Allowances for housing and subsistence.
(C)
Bonuses and special pays.
(D)
Dependent healthcare benefits.
(E)
Healthcare benefits for retirees under 65 years old.
(F)
Healthcare benefits for Medicare-eligible retirees.
(G)
Retirement pay.
(2)
How the members value different levels of pay or benefits, including the impact of co-payments or
deductibles on the value of benefits.
(3)
Any other matters related to military pay and benefits that the Commission considers appropriate.
(4)
How information collected pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), or (3) varies by age, grade, dependent
status, and other factors the Commission considers appropriate.
(c)
Submittal of results
(1)
In general
Upon the completion of the survey required by this section, the Commission shall submit a report
on
the analysis and raw data of the survey to the Secretary of Defense and to
Congress.
(2)
Availability to public
At the same time the Commission submits the report required by paragraph (1), the Commission shall
make the report available to the public.
(d)
Use of results by commission
Section 671(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 1787)
is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph (C):
(C)
examining the analysis and raw data collected pursuant to the survey of
the preference of members of the Armed Forces regarding military pay and
benefits required by the Act to require a survey of the preferences of
members of the Armed Forces regarding military pay and
benefits; and
.
(e)
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission defined
In this section, the term
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
means the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission under subtitle H of title
VI of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013.
