1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Digital Coast Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Digital Coast is a model approach for effective Federal partnerships with State and local
government, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector.
(2)
Access to current, accurate, uniform, and standards-based geospatial information,
tools, and training to characterize the United States coastal region
is critical for public safety and for the
environment, infrastructure, and economy of the United
States.
(3)
More than half of all people of the United States (153,000,000) currently live on or near a coast
and an additional 12,000,000 are expected in the next decade.
(4)
Coastal counties in the United States average 300 persons per square mile, compared with the
national average of 98.
(5)
On a typical day, more than 1,540 permits for construction of single-family homes are issued in
coastal counties, combined with other commercial, retail, and
institutional construction to support this population.
(6)
Over half of the economic productivity of the United States is located within coastal regions.
(7)
Highly accurate, high-resolution remote sensing and other geospatial data play an important role in
management of the coastal zone and economy, including for—
(A)
flood and
coastal storm surge prediction;
(B)
hazard risk and vulnerability assessment;
(C)
emergency response and recovery planning;
(D)
community resilience to longer
range climate change impacts;
(E)
permitting and zoning decisionmaking;
(F)
habitat and ecosystem health assessments; and
(G)
landscape change detection.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Coastal region
The term
coastal region
means the area of United States waters extending inland from the shoreline to include coastal
watersheds and seaward to the territorial sea.
(2)
Coastal State
The term
coastal State
—
(A)
means a State of the United States in, or bordering on, the Atlantic, Pacific, or Arctic Ocean, the
Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico, Long Island Sound, or one or more of
the Great Lakes; and
(B)
includes Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, American
Samoa, and any portion of a State that is located within the designated
coastal zone of the Atlantic or Pacific Ocean, the Chesapeake Bay, the
Gulf of Mexico, or the Great Lakes.
(3)
Digital Coast
The term
Digital Coast
means a constituent-driven effort led by the Secretary to provide an enabling platform that
integrates geospatial data, decision-support tools, training, and best
practices to address coastal management issues and needs. The Digital
Coast strives to enhance resilient communities, ecosystem values, and
coastal economic growth and development by helping communities address
their issues, needs, and challenges through cost-effective and
participatory solutions.
(4)
Federal Geographic Data Committee
The term
Federal Geographic Data Committee
means the interagency committee that promotes the coordinated development, use, sharing, and
dissemination of geospatial data on a national basis.
(5)
Remote sensing and other geospatial
The term
remote sensing and other geospatial
means collecting, storing, retrieving, or disseminating graphical or digital data depicting
natural or manmade physical features, phenomena, or boundaries of the
Earth and any information related thereto, including surveys, maps,
charts, satellite and airborne remote sensing data, images, LiDAR, and
services performed by professionals such as surveyors, photogrammetrists,
hydrographers, geodesists, cartographers, and other such services.
(6)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.
4.
Building the digital coast
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish Digital Coast as a program that provides data integration, tool
development, training, documentation, dissemination, and archive by—
(1)
making data and resulting integrated products developed under this section readily accessible via
the Digital Coast Internet website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, the GeoPlatform.gov and data.gov Internet websites, and
such other Internet
technologies as the Secretary considers appropriate;
(2)
developing decision-support tools that use and display resulting integrated data and provide
training on use of such tools;
(3)
documenting such data to Federal Geographic Data Committee standards; and
(4)
archiving all raw data acquired under this Act at the appropriate National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration data center or such other Federal data center as the
Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Coordination
The Secretary shall coordinate the activities carried out pursuant to this Act to maximize data
collection, sharing and integration, and to minimize duplication by—
(1)
consulting with coastal managers and decisionmakers concerning coastal issues,
and
sharing information and best practices, as the Secretary considers
appropriate, with—
(A)
coastal States;
(B)
local governments; and
(C)
representatives of nongovernmental entities;
(2)
consulting with other Federal agencies on relevant Federal activities, including activities carried
out under the Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act (33
U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C.
1451 et seq.), the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of
2009 (
33 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.
), and the Hydrographic Services Improvement
Act of 1998 (33
U.S.C. 892 et seq.);
(3)
participating, pursuant to section 216 of the E-Government Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–347
; 44
U.S.C. 3501 note), in the
establishment of such standards and common protocols as the Secretary
considers necessary to
assure the interoperability of remote sensing and other geospatial data
with all users of such information within—
(A)
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(B)
other Federal agencies;
(C)
State and local government; and
(D)
the private sector; and
(4)
coordinating with, seeking assistance and cooperation of, and providing liaison to the Federal
Geographic Data Committee pursuant to Office of Management and Budget
Circular A–16 and Executive Order 12906 of April 14, 1994 (59 Fed. Reg.
17671), as amended by Executive Order 13286 of March 5, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg.
10619).
(c)
Filling needs and gaps
In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall—
(1)
recognize that remote sensing and other geospatial data acquisition for navigational and
positioning purposes is carried out through other authorities and
programs;
(2)
focus on filling data needs and gaps for critical coastal management issues;
(3)
pursuant to the Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act (
33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
), support
continue improvement in existing efforts to coordinate the acquisition and
integration of key data sets needed for coastal management and other
purposes, including—
(A)
coastal elevation data;
(B)
land use and land cover data;
(C)
socioeconomic and human use data;
(D)
critical infrastructure data;
(E)
structures data;
(F)
living resources and habitat data;
(G)
cadastral data; and
(H)
aerial imagery;
(4)
integrate the priority supporting data set forth under paragraph (3) with other available data for
the benefit of the broadest measure of
coastal resource management constituents and applications;
(5)
enter into financial agreements to carry out this Act, including—
(A)
program support to non-Federal
entities that participate in implementing this Act;
(B)
financial agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and
contracts, or any other agreement on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable
basis, with other Federal, tribal, State, and local governmental and
nongovernmental entities; and
(C)
registration fees in support of training, workshops, and conferences that advance the purposes of
this Act; and
(6)
enter into such contracts with private sector entities for such products and services as the
Secretary determines may be necessary to collect remote sensing and other
geospatial
data, which contracts shall be considered
surveying and mapping
services as such term is used in and as such contracts are awarded by the Secretary in accordance
with the selection procedures in
chapter 11
of title 40, United States
Code.
5.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out
this section in
each of fiscal years 2015 through 2020.
