1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Free File Program Act of
2013
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) Free File program as established by the IRS pursuant to
public rulemaking and set forth in the Federal Register, Vol. 67, No. 213,
Monday, November 4, 2002, pages 67247–67251, and in implementing agreements and
governing rules and requirements between the IRS and the tax software and
electronic industry between 2003 and 2012, has been successful and significant
in the efforts of the Federal Government to increase the electronic filing of
individual income tax returns of low and moderate income taxpayers.
(2)
By the end of the
current tax return filing season more than 36,000,000 Federal individual income
tax returns will have been prepared and filed electronically for free over the
life of the IRS Free File program.
(3)
The IRS Free File
program offers Federal individual income tax return preparation and electronic
filing services to more than 70 percent of taxpayers, approximately 100,000,000
taxpayers at the end of the current tax filing period, with tax software and
electronic filing provided at no cost to the taxpayers who use the service or
to the Federal Government from tax software and electronic filing companies
participating in the program.
(4)
By the end of the
current tax return filing season, it is estimated that the IRS Free File
program will have saved taxpayers approximately $1,000,000,000 and will have
saved the Federal Government about $125,000,000 in processing costs.
3.
Internal Revenue
Service Free File Program
(a)
The Secretary of
the Treasury, or the Secretary's delegate, is authorized and directed to
continue to operate the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Free File program as
established by the IRS in the public rulemaking of November 4, 2002, and
subsequent agreements and governing rules.
(b)
The IRS Free File
program shall continue to provide free online individual income tax preparation
and electronic filing services to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest
income, determined using prior year taxpayer adjusted gross income. The number
of taxpayers receiving such services each year shall be adjusted for each
filing season based on taxpayer population and income changes, but the
percentage specified in the preceding sentence shall not change.
(c)
The IRS shall
continue to work cooperatively with the private sector through the Free File
Alliance to provide free individual income tax preparation and electronic
filing services and shall not compete with the private sector in providing
these services to taxpayers, nor shall the IRS acquire, develop, or deploy
enabling systems to duplicate or replace private sector tax preparation
services.
(d)
The Secretary of
the Treasury, or the Secretary's delegate, shall not establish, develop,
sponsor, acquire, or make available individual income tax preparation software
or electronic filing services except through the IRS Free File program and the
Internal Revenue Service’s Taxpayer Assistance Centers, Tax Counseling for the
Elderly, and volunteer income tax assistance (VITA) programs.
