1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States Commission on International Religious Freedom Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2014
.
2.
Establishment and composition
(a)
Leadership
Subsection (d) of section 201 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C.
6431(d)) is amended to read as follows:
(d)
Election of chair
At the first meeting of the Commission after May 30 of each year, a majority of the Members of the
Commission present and voting shall elect the Chair and Vice Chair of the
Commission, subject to the following requirements:
(1)
Initial elections
At the first meeting of the Commission after May 30, 2015, the Members of the Commission shall
elect as Chair a Commissioner appointed by an elected official of the
political party that is not the political party of the President, and as
Vice Chair a Commissioner appointed by an elected official of the
political party of the President.
(2)
Future elections
At the first meeting of the Commission after May 30, 2016, the Members of the Commission shall
elect as Chair a Commissioner appointed by an elected official of the
political party of the President, and as Vice Chair a Commissioner
appointed by an elected official of the political party that is not the
political party of the President. Thereafter, positions of Chair and Vice
Chair shall continue to rotate on an annual basis between Commissioners
appointed by elected officials of each political party.
(3)
Term limits
No Member of the Commission is eligible to be elected as Chair of the Commission for a second term,
and no Member of the Commission is eligible to be elected as Vice Chair of
the Commission for a second term.
.
(b)
Attendance at meetings of ambassador at large for international religious freedom
Subsection (f) of such section (
22 U.S.C. 6431(f)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
The Ambassador at Large shall be given advance notice of all Commission meetings and may attend all
Commission meetings as a non-voting Member of the Commission.
.
(c)
Appointments in cases of vacancies
Subsection (g) of such section (
22 U.S.C. 6431(g)
) is amended by striking the second sentence.
3.
Powers of the commission
Section 203(e) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6432a
) is amended to
read as follows:
(e)
Views of the commission
The Members of the Commission may speak in their capacity as private citizens. Statements on behalf
of the Commission shall be issued in writing over the names of the
Members. Members of the Commission shall make every effort to reach
consensus on all statements on behalf of the Commission, including
testimony, press releases, and articles by Commissioners or Commission
staff. When a statement
supported by all Commissioners is not possible, the Commission shall issue
a statement only if such statement is approved by an affirmative vote of
at least six of the nine Members of the Commission and each Member of the
Commission may include the individual or dissenting views of the Member.
The Commission shall in its written statements clearly describe its
statutory authority, distinguishing that authority from that of appointed
or elected officials of the United States Government. Oral statements,
where practicable, shall include a similar description.
.
4.
Commission personnel matters
(a)
Staff directors
Section 204 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6432b
) is amended by
striking subsections (a), (b), and (c) and inserting the following new
subsections:
(a)
Committee functions
Subject to subsection (c), the Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such staff
personnel as it deems desirable. All decisions pertaining to the hiring,
firing, and fixing of pay of personnel of the Commission shall be by an
affirmative vote of at least six of the nine Members of the Commission,
except that—
(1)
Members of the Commission appointed by an elected official of the political party of the President,
by a majority vote thereof,
shall be entitled to appoint, terminate, and fix the pay of a Majority
Staff Director and shall have the authority to appoint, terminate, and fix
the pay of three professional staff members who shall be
responsible to the Members of the Commission of the political party of the
President; and
(2)
Members of the Commission appointed by an elected official of the political party that is not the
political party of the President,
by a majority vote thereof, shall be entitled to appoint, terminate, and
fix the pay of a Minority Staff Director and shall have the authority to
appoint, terminate, and fix the pay of three professional staff
members who shall be responsible to the Members of the Commission of the
political party that is not the political party of the President.
(b)
Staff appointments and compensation
All staff appointments shall be made without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
III of
chapter 53
of title 5 relating to classification of positions and
General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay for the Majority
Staff Director, Minority Staff Director, and other personnel may not
exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under
section 5316 of such title.
(c)
Qualifications of professional staff
The Commission shall ensure that the professional staff of the Commission consists of persons with
expertise in areas relevant to the issue of international religious
freedom, including foreign affairs, direct experience abroad, human
rights, and international law.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Subsection (e) of such section (
22 U.S.C. 6432b(e)
) is amended
by striking
The Executive Director
both places it appears and inserting
The Majority Staff Director and the Minority Staff Director
.
5.
Report of commission
(a)
Report publication date
Section 205(a) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6433(a)
) is amended by
striking
Not later than May 1 of each year
and inserting
Each year, not earlier than 30 days after, and not later than 90 days after, the publication of the
Department of State's Annual Report
on International Religious Freedom
.
(b)
Consensus on reports
Section 205(c) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6433(c)
) is amended to
read as follows:
(c)
Individual or dissenting views
Members of the Commission shall make every effort to reach consensus on the report.
When a report supported by all Commissioners is not possible, the report
shall be
approved by an affirmative vote of at least six of the nine Members of the
Commission and each Member of the Commission may include the individual or
dissenting views of the Member.
.
6.
Authorization of appropriations
Section 207(a) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6435(a)
)
is amended by striking
2014
and inserting
2016
.
7.
Termination
Section 209 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6436
) is amended by
striking
September 30, 2014
and inserting
September 30, 2016
.
