1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Lands Against Narcotics Trafficking Act of 2013
or the
PLANT Act
.
2.
Controlled Substances Act penalty amendments
(a)
Cultivating or manufacturing controlled substances on Federal property
Section 401(b)(5) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(b)(5)
) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
as provided in this subsection
and inserting
for not more than 10 years, in addition to any other term of imprisonment imposed under this subsection
.
(b)
Use of hazardous substances
Pursuant to its authority under
section 994
of title 28, United States Code, the United States Sentencing Commission shall amend and review the Federal Sentencing Guidelines and policy statements to ensure that the guidelines provide for a penalty enhancement of not less than 1 offense level for a violation of section 401(a) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(a)
) while on Federal property or intentionally trespassing on the property of another if the offense—
(1)
includes the use of a poison, chemical, or other hazardous substance to cultivate or manufacture controlled substances on Federal property;
(2)
creates a hazard to humans, wildlife, or domestic animals;
(3)
degrades or harms the environment or natural resources; or
(4)
pollutes an aquifer, spring, stream, river, or body of water.
(c)
Stream diversion or clear cutting on Federal property
(1)
Prohibition on stream diversion or clear cutting on Federal property
Section 401(b) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(b)
), as amended by subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Destruction of bodies of water
Any person who violates subsection (a) in a manner that diverts, redirects, obstructs, or drains an aquifer, spring, stream, river, or body of water or clear cuts timber while cultivating or manufacturing a controlled substance on Federal property or while intentionally trespassing on the property of another shall be fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code.
.
(2)
Federal sentencing guidelines enhancement
Pursuant to its authority under
section 994
of title 28, United States Code, the United States Sentencing Commission shall review and amend the Federal Sentencing Guidelines and policy statements to ensure that the guidelines provide for a penalty enhancement of not less than 1 offense level for a violation of section 401(a) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(a)
) if the offense involves the diversion, redirection, obstruction, or draining of an aquifer, spring, stream, river, or body of water or the clear cut of timber while cultivating or manufacturing a controlled substance on Federal property or while intentionally trespassing on the property of another.
(d)
Booby traps on Federal land
Section 401(d)(1) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(d)(1)
) is amended by inserting
cultivated,
after
is being
.
(e)
Use or Possession of Firearms in Connection With Drug Offenses on Federal Lands
Pursuant to its authority under
section 994
of title 28, United States Code, the United States Sentencing Commission shall review and amend the Federal Sentencing Guidelines and policy statements to ensure that the guidelines provide for a penalty enhancement of not less than 1 offense level for a violation of section 401(a) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 841(a)
) if the offense involves the possession of a firearm while cultivating or manufacturing controlled substances on Federal lands or intentionally trespassing on the property of another.
