1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
World War I Memorial Act of 2014
.
2.
Designation of National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri
(a)
Designation
The Liberty Memorial of Kansas City at America’s National World War I Museum in Kansas City,
Missouri, is hereby designated as the
National World War I Museum and Memorial
.
(b)
Ceremonies
The World War I Centennial Commission (in this Act referred to as the
Commission
) may plan, develop, and execute ceremonies to recognize the designation of the Liberty Memorial of
Kansas City as the National World War I Museum and Memorial.
3.
Redesignation of Pershing Park in the District of Columbia as the National World War I Memorial and
enhancement of commemorative work
(a)
Redesignation
Pershing Park in the District of Columbia is hereby redesignated as the
National World War I Memorial
.
(b)
Ceremonies
The Commission may plan, develop, and execute ceremonies for the rededication of Pershing Park, as
it approaches its 50th anniversary, as the National World War I Memorial
and for the enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work as
authorized by subsection (c).
(c)
Authority To enhance commemorative work
(1)
In General
The Commission may enhance the General Pershing Commemorative Work by constructing on the land
designated by subsection (a) as the National World War I Memorial
appropriate sculptural and other commemorative elements, including
landscaping, to further honor the service of members of the United States
Armed Forces in World War I.
(2)
General Pershing Commemorative Work defined
The term
General Pershing Commemorative Work
means the memorial to the late John J. Pershing, General of the Armies of the United States, who
commanded the American Expeditionary Forces in World War I, and to the
officers and men under his command, as authorized by Public Law 89–786 (80
Stat. 1377).
(d)
Compliance with standards for commemorative works
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code, applies to the
enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work under subsection
(c).
(2)
Waiver of certain requirements
(A)
Site selection for memorial
Section 8905 of such title does not apply with respect to the selection of the site for the
National World War I Memorial.
(B)
Conditions applicable to Area I
Section 8908(b) of such title does not apply to the National World War I Memorial concerning
Pershing Park.
(e)
No infringement upon existing memorial
The National World War I Memorial may not interfere with or encroach on the District of Columbia
War Memorial.
(f)
Deposit of excess funds
(1)
Use for other World War I commemorative activities
If, upon payment of all expenses for the enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work
under subsection (c) (including the maintenance and preservation amount
required by section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, United States Code), there
remains a balance of funds received for such purpose, the Commission may
use the amount of the balance for other commemorative activities
authorized under the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public Law
112–272; 126 Stat. 2448).
(2)
Use for other commemorative works
If the authority for enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work and the authority of
the Commission to plan and conduct commemorative activities under the
World War I Centennial Commission Act have expired and there remains a
balance of funds received for the enhancement of the General Pershing
Commemorative Work, the Commission shall transmit the amount of the
balance to a separate account with the National Park Foundation, to be
available to the Secretary of the Interior following the process provided
in section 8906(b)(4) of title 40, United States Code, for accounts
established under section 8906(b)(3) of such title.
(g)
Authorization To complete construction after termination of Commission
Section 8 of the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112–272) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
The Centennial Commission
and inserting
Except as provided in subsection (c), the Centennial Commission
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Exception for completion of National World War I Memorial
The Centennial Commission may perform such work as is necessary to complete the rededication of the
National World War I Memorial and enhancement of the General Pershing
Commemorative Work under section 3 of the World War I Memorial Act of
2014, subject to section 8903 of title 40, United States Code.
.
4.
Additional amendments to World War I Centennial Commission Act
(a)
Ex officio and other advisory members
Section 4 of the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112–272; 126 Stat. 2449) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Ex officio and other advisory members
(1)
Powers
The individuals listed in paragraphs (2) and (3), or their designated representative, shall serve
on the Centennial Commission solely to provide advice and information to
the members of the Centennial Commission appointed pursuant to subsection
(b)(1), and shall not be considered members for purposes of any other
provision of this Act.
(2)
Ex officio members
The following individuals shall serve as ex officio members:
(A)
The Archivist of the United States.
(B)
The Librarian of Congress.
(C)
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
(D)
The Secretary of State.
(E)
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(F)
The Administrator of General Services.
(3)
Other advisory members
The following individuals shall serve as other advisory members:
(A)
Four members appointed by the Secretary of Defense in the following manner: One from the Navy, one
from the Marine Corps, one from the Army, and one from the Air Force.
(B)
Two members appointed by the Secretary of Homeland Security in the following manner: One from the
Coast Guard and one from the United States Secret Service.
(C)
Two members appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, including one from the National Parks
Service.
(4)
Vacancies
A vacancy in a member position under paragraph (3) shall be filled in the same manner in which the
original appointment was made.
.
(b)
Payable rate of staff
Section 7(c)(2) of such Act (Public Law 112–272; 126 Stat. 2451) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end and inserting
, without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5,
United States Code, relating to classification and General Schedule pay
rates.
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
level IV
and inserting
level II
.
(c)
Limitation on obligation of Federal funds
(1)
Limitation
Section 9 of such Act (Public Law 112–272; 126 Stat. 2453) is amended to read as follows:
9.
Limitation on obligation of Federal funds
No Federal funds may be obligated or expended for the designation, establishment, or enhancement of
a memorial or commemorative work by the World War I Centennial Commission.
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 7(f) of such Act (Public Law 112–272; 126 Stat. 2452) is repealed.
(3)
Clerical amendment
The item relating to section 9 in the table of contents of such Act (Public Law 112–272; 126 Stat.
2448) is amended to read as follows:
Sec. 9. Limitation on obligation of Federal funds.
.
