Section 1

.

Purpose

. The success of     is integral to the economic future of our country. As more than 60 million   live in    ,   are the largest minority group in the country.   are also the  's youngest major racial or ethnic group. Generations of   constituting different backgrounds and cultures have contributed to building a strong and prosperous  . Their collective contributions continue a legacy of inspiration that is a cherished part of the   experience.

While we celebrate the many ways     have contributed to our  , we also recognize that they face challenges in accessing educational and economic opportunities. In  , my Administration has supported school choice,  -Serving Institutions (HSIs), and new career pathways, including apprenticeships and work-based learning initiatives, because quality education options offering multiple pathways to economic success are critical to developing our  's potential for the jobs of  .   has also supported investment in economically distressed communities, including through Opportunity Zones, and economic opportunities for small and minority-owned businesses. The initiative set forth in this order increases emphasis on the connection between educational and economic opportunities, and exploring and promoting opportunities for    , both through and outside traditional education options, that lead to economic prosperity.  ,   have more paths to prosperity than any previous generation, and it is necessary to ensure that     have every opportunity to access these pathways and to fulfill their educational and economic aspirations.

 . 2

.

White House Hispanic Prosperity Initiative

. There is established   (Initiative), housed in  ).

(a) The mission of the   shall be to improve access by     to educational and economic opportunities. Consistent with its mission, the Initiative shall:

(i) identify and promote educational and workforce development practices that have improved educational, professional, and economic outcomes for    ;

(ii) encourage private-sector initiatives and foster public-private partnerships that improve access to educational and economic opportunities for    ;

(iii) develop a national network of individuals, organizations, and communities, with which to consult and collaborate regarding practices and policies that improve access to educational and economic opportunities for    ;

(iv) monitor the development, implementation, and coordination of   educational, workforce, and business development programs designed to improve outcomes for    ; and

(v) advise the President, through the Secretary of   (Secretary), on issues of importance to     and policies relating to    ' prosperity. (b) The Initiative shall be led by an Executive Director, designated by the Secretary. The Executive Director shall also serve as Executive Director of the   created by section 3 of this order. In addition to leading the work of the  , the   Director shall coordinate the work of, and provide administrative support for, the Commission. As appropriate, the   shall provide the   with staff, resources, and administrative support, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, support, and assistance to the   as the Secretary may request.

(d) The  , acting through the Executive Director, shall provide regular reports on its activities to appropriate officials in   of the President, including the Director of  , the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Director of  , and the Director of  .

(e) As part of the  , there is established   ( ) to collaborate regarding resources and opportunities available across   to increase educational and economic opportunities for    .   shall also serve as a channel for communication between the   and other agencies.

(i)   shall be chaired by the Executive Director of the   and shall consist of a senior official from  ,  ,  , and each agency that develops or implements policies relating to     prosperity, as identified by the Secretary.

(ii) The   shall provide   with administrative support to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

 . 3

.

The President's   on   Prosperity

. There is established in the Department the President's   on  ).

(a) The   shall be composed of not more than 20 members, who shall be appointed by the President. The   may include individuals from outside   with relevant experience or subject matter expertise in promoting educational opportunities and economic success in the     community. The   shall also include the following officers, or their designees:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ; and

(v) the Administrator of  .

(b) The functions of the   shall be to:

(i) promote pathways to in-demand jobs for     students, including apprenticeships, internships, fellowships, mentorships, and work-based learning initiatives;

(ii) strengthen HSIs, as defined by the Higher Education Act of  , as amended, and increase the participation of the     community,  -serving school districts, and HSIs in the programs of the   and other agencies;

(iii) promote local-based and national private-public partnerships to promote high-quality education, training, and economic opportunities for    ;

(iv) promote awareness of educational opportunities for     students, including options to enhance school choice, personalized learning, family engagement, and civics education;

(v) promote public awareness of the educational and training challenges that     face and the causes of these challenges;

(vi) monitor changes in    ' access to educational and economic opportunities; and

(vii) advise the President and the Initiative on educational and economic opportunities for the     community.

(c) The   shall periodically report to the President, through the Secretary and after consulting with the Executive Director, on progress in providing   students, workers, and communities with increased access to educational and economic opportunities. The reports shall identify efforts of agencies to improve educational and economic opportunities for    . The reports shall also include, as appropriate, recommendations for improving Federal education, workforce, small business, and other programs.

(d) The   shall have a   and two Vice Chairs, designated by the President from among the members of the  . The   and Vice Chairs shall work with the Executive Director to convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order.

(i) The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(ii) Members of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(iii) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary, in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(e) The   shall terminate   after the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order 13555 of   (  Initiative on Educational Excellence for  ), and section 1(u) of Executive Order   of   ( ).

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
