Section 1. (a) All transactions related to, provision of financing for, and other dealings in, by a   person or within  , any digital currency, digital coin, or digital token, that was issued by, for, or on behalf of   on or after  , are prohibited as of the effective date of this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order.

 . 2. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches of such entities), or any person within  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Venezuela" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including   and  ,   (PdVSA), and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of,  .

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions to other officers and executive departments and agencies of  . All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 5. For those persons whose property and interests in property are affected by this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice given for implementation of this order.

 . 6. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7. This order is effective at 12:15 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .
