113 SRES 41 ATS: Supporting the designation of March 2013, as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
U.S. Senate
2013-02-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 41
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
February 25, 2013
Mr. Enzi
(for himself,
Mr. Lautenberg
,
Mr. Menendez
, and
Mr.
Cardin
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered
and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of March 2013,
as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
Whereas colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of
cancer death among men and women in the United States, killing more non-smokers
than any other cancer;
Whereas every year it is estimated that more than 135,000
individuals in the United States are diagnosed with colorectal cancer and more
than 50,000 individuals die from the disease;
Whereas colorectal cancer is one of the most highly
preventable forms of cancer because screening tests can find polyps that can be
removed before becoming cancerous;
Whereas screening tests can detect colorectal cancer
early, when treatment works best;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
estimates that if every individual aged 50 or older had regular screening
tests, as many as 60 percent of deaths from colorectal cancer could be
prevented;
Whereas the 5-year survival rate for patients with
localized colorectal cancer is 90 percent, but only 39 percent of all diagnoses
occur at this stage;
Whereas colorectal cancer screening can effectively reduce
colorectal cancer incidence and mortality, yet 1 in 3 adults between the ages
of 50 and 75 are not up to date with recommended colorectal cancer
screening;
Whereas public awareness and education campaigns on
colorectal cancer prevention, screening, and symptoms are held during the month
of March each year; and
Whereas educational efforts can help provide information
to the public of methods of prevention and screening, as well as about symptoms
for early detection: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of National
Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month; and
(2)
encourages the
people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate awareness and
educational activities.
