93 HJ 83 IH: Authorization for Use of Military Force to defend America’s Allies Resolution of 2022
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-04-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. J. RES. 83
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 28, 2022
Mr. Kinzinger
submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
JOINT RESOLUTION
To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces to defend the territorial integrity of United States allies.
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Authorization for Use of Military Force to defend America’s Allies Resolution of 2022
.
2.
Authorization for use of United States Armed Forces
(a)
Authorization
Upon making a determination that the Russian Federation has used chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons in the territory of Ukraine, the President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States as the President determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to—
(1)
protect the national security interests of the United States with respect to Ukraine; and
(2)
assist in defending and restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
(b)
Presidential determination
In connection with the exercise of the authority granted in subsection (a) to use force the President shall, prior to such exercise or as soon thereafter as may be feasible, but no later than 48 hours after exercising such authority, make available to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate the President’s determination that reliance by the United States on further diplomatic or other peaceful means alone either—
(1)
will not adequately protect the national security interests of the United States with respect to Ukraine; or
(2)
is not likely to defend and restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
(c)
War Powers Resolution requirements
(1)
Specific statutory authorization
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
(2)
Applicability of other requirements
Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
3.
Reports to Congress
(a)
Reports
The President shall, at least once every 60 days, submit to the Congress a report on matters relevant to this joint resolution, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority granted in section 3 and the status of planning for efforts that are expected to be required after such actions are completed.
(b)
Single consolidated report
To the extent that the submission of any report described in subsection (a) coincides with the submission of any other report on matters relevant to this joint resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution (
Public Law 93–148
), all such reports may be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Congress.
4.
Sunset
The authority granted in section 2 shall terminate the date on which the President certifies to Congress that the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been restored.
