Executive Order 5602—  in   Under the Control and Jurisdiction of  
 
 

Whereas

under the authority conferred on me by the act of  , entitled "An act to provide a temporary government for the   Islands acquired by   from   by the convention entered into between said countries on  ,  , and ratified by   on  ,  , and for other purposes" (39 Stat.  ), and by virtue of all other powers thereto me enabling, the administration of the government of  , including expenditures and the appointment of personnel, was placed under the supervision of the Secretary of the  ; and

Whereas

certain lands, buildings, and improvements, hereinafter enumerated under Class One, have been acquired by   for island government affairs as distinguished from naval activities and are available for permanent use in the administration of the government of  , to wit:

Class One

St. Thomas

(a) Government House,  .   and 22  's Gade. Acquired by treaty. Occupied as public quarters by governor and commandant. Maintained by Federal funds appropriated for temporary government of  .

(b)   magazine,  , No. 9f Southside Quarter. Acquired by treaty. Until recently used by   officer of the station and the municipality. Now unoccupied.

(c) Military cemetery, No. 9g New Quarter. Acquired by treaty. Is being administered by the municipality.

(d)  's Battery, Hazzell Island, with connecting road to signal station (formerly  ). Formerly considered   state property.

St. Croix

(a) Government House,  . 2 and 3 King Street and No. 2 Queen Cross Street,  . Acquired by treaty. Used by municipal government and district court. Part of building used as temporary quarters of governor.

(b) Cable office building,  . No inatricula numbers. Acquired by treaty. Lower floor used as office of  , under the terms of concession. Upper floor used as noncommissioned officers' Quarters.

(c) Former military bakery, Church Street,  . No matricula numbers. Acquired by treaty. At present being kept up by the municipality.

(d)  , No. 23AA King's Quarter. Acquired by treaty. Now used as a poor farm.

(e) Radio station site. Acquired by deed from municipality of   dated  ;

and

Whereas

certain other lands, buildings, improvements, and furnishings, hereinafter enumerated under Class Two, acquired by   for naval activities are not for the time being needed for such uses and are available for temporary use in the administration of the government of  , to wit:

Class Two

St. Thomas

(a)   headquarters building (No. 0, P.W.O. Drawing "A", showing conditions on  ). Quarters "B", quarters of captain of   (P.W.O. Drawing "B", showing conditions on  ), including the furniture now located therein.

(b)   barracks (P.W.O. Drawing "A", showing conditions on  , less No. 0, 1R, 2R, 3R, 4R, 5R, 38M, 40M, 43M, and 50M).

(c)   storehouse (P.W.O. Drawing "C", showing conditions on  ).

 

(a)   barracks (former   barracks,  .  ,  , and 23 Hospital Street, No. 8 Church Street,  . 1, 2,  , and 69  , and No. 39  ,   ted). Acquired by treaty.

Now, therefore

, under the authority vested in me by the aforesaid act of  , and by virtue of all other powers thereto me enabling, I do hereby direct that all items above enumerated under Class One be, and the same are hereby transferred permanently to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   for use in the administration of the government of  . And I do hereby further direct that all items above enumerated under Class Two be, and the same are hereby, transferred temporarily to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   for use in the administration of the government of  , said temporary transfer to become effective on evacuation of the premises by the naval authorities, and on condition that the premises will be maintained in good repair and returned to the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the   when required for naval uses.

The following lands, buildings, and improvements acquired by   for naval activities are retained under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the  :

 

(a) Naval station (P.W.O. Drawing "D", showing conditions on  ).

(b) Radio station (No. 1R, 2R, 3R, 4R, 5R, 38M, 40M, 43M, and 50M, P.W.O. Drawing "A", showing conditions on  ).

Copies of the P.W.O. drawings herein referred to are hereto attached and made a part hereof.

 

 ,

 .

Related Images

eo-5602page3.jpg

eo-5602page4.jpg

eo-5602page5.jpg

eo-5602page6.jpg
