Executive Order 5757—Transfer of Lands from the   and the   to  ,  
 
 

Under authority of the act of   approved   (30 Stat. 11, 36;  , title 16,  . 473), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is hereby ordered that the following-described lands now parts of   as defined by proclamation of   (37 Stat.  ), or of   as defined by proclamation of   (36 Stat.  ), be, and the same are hereby, transferred to  From  All parts thereof lying south and west of a line beginning at a point, on the east line of unsurveyed  . 10, T. 3 S.,   5 W., where the hydrographic divide between   and   intersects said line; thence in an easterly direction along said divide to its intersection with the crest of the Tobacco Hoot Mountains at Apa Mountain; thence in a southeasterly direction along the crest of said mountains passing over   to a point where the hydrographic divide between   on the west and   on the east intersects the south line of  . 8, T. 5 S.,   2 W., all Montana meridian; also those parts lying in  . 12,  ,  , and 15 S., R. 2 E.; Tps. 11,  , and 13 S., R. 1 E.;  . 9,  ,  , and 12 S., R. 1 W.;  . 8,  ,  ,  , and 12 S., R. 2 W.;  . 7,  ,  ,  ,  , and 12 S., R. 3 W.;  . 9,  ,  , and 12 S., R. 4 W.; T. 12 S.,   5 W., all   meridian.

From  All parts thereof lying south and west of the following-described line:

Beginning at the quarter-section corner on the east line of  .  ,  ; thence to the northeast corner of said section; thence west 2½ miles to the southeast corner of the  .  .  . 26,  ; thence north 2½ miles to the northeast corner of the  . ¼  . ¼  . 14, said township; thence west one-fourth mile; thence north one-fourth mile to   corner of said  . 14; thence west one-fourth mile; thence north one-half mile to the northeast corner of the  . ¼  .  . 11, said township; thence west one-fourth mile; thence north one-half mile to the northeast corner  . 10, said township; thence west one-half mile; thence north one-fourth mile to the northeast corner of the SE. ¼  .  . 3, said township; thence west one-half mile; thence north three- fourths mile to the northeast corner  . 4, said township; thence west along the north township line and continuing westerly along the north township line of >unsurveyed   14 W., all  , to intersection with the  ; also all national-forest land lying south and west of the following-described line:

Beginning at the northwest corner of the  . ¼ NW.  . 7,  ; thence east one-fourth mile; thence south one-fourth mile; thence east one-fourth mile; thence south one-fourth mile; thence east one-fourth mile; thence south onefourth mile to the southwest corner of the SE.  .   said  . 7; thence east three-fourths mile to   corner of  . 17, said township; thence south one-fourth mile; thence east one-fourth mile; thence south one-fourth mile; thence east one-fourth mile; thence south one-half mile to the southeast corner said  . 17; thence east approximately 1 mile to intersection with the present boundary of  ; above descriptions all refer to the Montana meridian.

The transfers effected by this order and the new boundaries of   are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is not intended by this order to give any publicly owned lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status, nor to remove any publicly owned lands from a national-forest status.

 

 ,

 .
