Executive  —Assignment of Frequencies to Government Radio Stations
 
 

Whereas

section 6 of the Radio Act of   (44 Stat.  ) provides as follows:

"Radio stations belonging to and operated by   shall not be subject to the provisions of sections 1,  , and 5 of this Act. All such Government stations shall use such frequencies or wave lengths as shall be assigned to each or to each class by the President. All such stations, except stations on board naval and other Government vessels while at sea or beyond the limits of the continental  , when transmitting any radio communication or signal other than a communication or signal relating to Government business shall conform to such rules and regulations designed to prevent interference with other radio stations and the rights of others as the Ecensing authority may prescribe. Upon proclamation by the President that there exists war or a threat of war or a state of public peril or disaster or other national emergency, or in order to preserve the neutrality of  , the President may suspend or amend, for such time as he may see fit, the rules and regulations apphcable to any or all stations within the jurisdiction of   as prescribed by the licensing authority, and may cause the closing of any station for radio communication and the removal therefrom of its apparatus and equipment, or he may authorize the use or control of any such station and/or its apparatus and equipment by any department of the Government under such regulations as he may prescribe, upon just compensation to the owners. Radio stations on board vessels of   or   or the Inland and Coastwise Waterways Service shall be subject to the provisions of this Act."

And Whereas

the   departments using radio find it necessary for efficient operation to make some changes in previous frequency assignments to individual stations which will not add to the total number of frequencies assigned for Government use and have requested that such changes be authorized;

Now, therefore, I,  

, President of  , pursuant to the authority vested in me by law, do hereby allocate frequencies to the   stations as follows:

The following Government experimental radio stations are authorized to use miscellaneous frequencies from time to time provided no interference is caused with other authorized service:

Navy Department:   ( );   ( );   ( ).

War Department:  ,   ( );  ,   (WZAJ).

 ,  ,   ( ).

In the allocation of these frequencies the following principles have been followed and shall be followed in the consideration of future applications for use of frequencies by Government departments:

Utilization of Existing Communication Facilities

"No department shall erect a new station in the proximity of an existing government station, unless the same is incapable of rendering to such department the service that it requires, which shall be determined only after careful consideration by the departments concerned or by the permanent interdepartment organization. Whenever practicable, such a situation shall be met by the expansion of the existing stations, if necessary under joint contribution of the   interested. No department shall close a station no longer needed by it which is serving other Government departments without first making arrangements in respect to such service that are satisfactory to the departments being served."

Government Encouragement to  

"The Government will encourage and foster the development of privately owned and operated radio facilities in such a manner that in time of war or similar national emergency there shall be available the most effective system for the national defense. In part, this encouragement shall consist of utilizing the services of commercial stations wherever Government interests warrant in the accomplishment of the service required."

The stations listed herein may use other frequencies for the purpose of selecting a frequency more suitable for a particular service prior to requesting authority to change the frequency, provided a notice is first submitted to   and also a notice to  , if the frequency is not included in the   order, on the proviso that it will cease operation on notice of interference from   or   and such use shall not be for   total.

The powers of the stations shown are those at the time of issuance of Executive order and are not limitations upon the stations.

The locations given are locations of the transmitting apparatus; and where control points are different, they are given in parentheses.

This Executive order supersedes Executive Order No. 5197-A,  .

 

 ,

 .

Related Images

eo-5638page01.jpg

eo-5638page02.jpg

eo-5638page03.jpg

eo-5638page04.jpg

eo-5638page05.jpg

eo-5638page06.jpg

eo-5638page07.jpg

eo-5638page08.jpg

eo-5638page09.jpg

eo-5638page10.jpg

eo-5638page11.jpg

eo-5638page12.jpg

eo-5638page13.jpg

eo-5638page14.jpg

eo-5638page15.jpg

eo-5638page16.jpg

eo-5638page17.jpg

eo-5638page18.jpg

eo-5638page19.jpg

eo-5638page20.jpg

eo-5638page21.jpg

eo-5638page22.jpg

eo-5638page23.jpg

eo-5638page24.jpg

eo-5638page25.jpg

eo-5638page26.jpg
