1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Move Ownership and Responsibility to Encourage Makerspaces Act of 2017
or the
MORE Makerspaces Act
.
2.
Use of abandoned or unused Federal civilian real properties as makerspaces
(a)
In general
The Federal Assets Sale and Transfer Act of 2016 (
Public Law 114–287
;
40 U.S.C. 1303
note) is amended—
(1)
in section 2—
(A)
in paragraph (9), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(11)
assisting Federal agencies in leasing or selling abandoned or unused Federal civilian real properties for use as makerspaces.
;
(2)
in section 3, by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(10)
Makerspace
The term
makerspace
means a community space that—
(A)
provides access to tools, technology, and knowledge for learners and entrepreneurs;
(B)
results in the prototyping or creation of physical goods; and
(C)
supports the development of educational opportunities for personal growth, workforce training, and early stage business ventures.
;
(3)
in section 11(a)(2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
Federal civilian real properties that have sufficient square footage, technological capabilities, and community accessibility for use as makerspaces.
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following new section:
26.
Review process for makerspaces
(a)
Review process
The Board shall establish a review process through which a Federal agency may lease or sell an abandoned or unused Federal civilian real property for use as a makerspace.
(b)
Outreach campaign
The Board shall establish an online public campaign to inform local municipalities of the review process established under subsection (a).
(c)
Notification to Members of Congress
With respect to each abandoned or unused Federal civilian real property identified through the review process established under subsection (a), the Board shall notify the Member of Congress in whose district the property is located so that the Member can inform the local municipality and community of the opportunity to use such property as a makerspace. Each such notification shall include the name of the location, address, and square footage of the property and a brief explanation of the opportunity to use such property as a makerspace.
(d)
Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of the Move Ownership and Responsibility to Encourage Makerspaces Act of 2017, and annually thereafter, the Board shall publicly post online a report that includes the following:
(1)
The total number and locations of abandoned or unused Federal civilian real properties identified through the review process established under subsection (a) during the one-year period preceding the date on which the report is posted.
(2)
Brief descriptions of each Federal civilian real property used as a makerspace during the one-year period preceding the date on which the report is posted, including the amount of community participation in the development of the makerspace, the technologies and innovation developed in the makerspace, and any other information that the Board considers appropriate.
(3)
Recommendations to improve the review process established under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 26. Review process for makerspaces.
.
