1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transparency in Technological Acquisitions Act of 2017
.
2.
Information required to be submitted to Congress under the strategic 5-year technology investment plan of the Transportation Security Administration
(a)
Additional information required
Section 1611 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 563
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (g)—
(A)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
biennially
and inserting
annually
;
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and
;
(C)
in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
information about acquisitions completed during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which the report is submitted.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsections:
(h)
Notice of covered changes to Plan
(1)
Notice required
The Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives notice of any covered change to the Plan by not later than 90 days after the date on which the change is made.
(2)
Definition of change
In this subsection, the term
covered change
means an increase or decrease in the dollar amount allocated to the procurement of a technology or an increase or decrease in the number of a technology.
.
(b)
Report on equipment in operation post-Life-Cycle
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report describing any equipment of the Transportation Security Administration that is in operation after—
(1)
the end of the life-cycle of the equipment specified by the manufacturer of the equipment; or
(2)
the end of the useful life projection for the equipment under the strategic 5-year technology investment plan of the Transportation Security Administration, as required by section 1611 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 563
).
(c)
Notice to airports and airlines
Upon the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall notify airports and airlines of any changes to the 5-year technology investment plan of the Transportation Security Administration.
