1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Homeland Security Acquisition Innovation Act
.
2.
Acquisition innovation
(a)
In general
Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 341
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
710.
Acquisition innovation
The Under Secretary for Management may—
(1)
designate an individual within the Department to manage acquisition innovation efforts of the Department;
(2)
test emerging acquisition best practices to carrying out acquisitions, consistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulation and Department acquisition management directives, as appropriate;
(3)
develop and distribute best practices and lessons learned regarding acquisition innovation throughout the Department; and
(4)
establish metrics to measure the effectiveness of acquisition innovation efforts with respect to cost, operational efficiency of the acquisition program (including timeframe for executing contracts), and collaboration with the private sector, including small businesses.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 709 the following new item:
Sec. 710. Acquisition innovation.
.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security submits the annual budget justification for the Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary shall, if appropriate, submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the activities undertaken in the previous fiscal year in furtherance of section 710 of the Homeland Security Act, as added by subsection (a) of this Act. Each such report shall include information on the following:
(1)
Emerging acquisition best practices that were tested within the Department during such year.
(2)
Efforts to distribute best practices and lessons learned within the Department, including through web-based seminars, training, and forums, during such year.
(3)
Utilization by components throughout the Department of best practices distributed by the Under Secretary of Management pursuant to paragraph (3) of such section 710.
(4)
Performance as measured by the metrics established under paragraph (4) of such section 710.
(5)
Any impacts of the utilization of innovative acquisition mechanism by the Department on small businesses.
