1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act
.
2.
Grants regarding training and support services for Alzheimer’s patients and their families
Part D of title III of the
Public Health Service Act
(
42 U.S.C. 254b
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 330M the following:
330N.
Grants regarding training and support services for Alzheimer’s patients and their families
(a)
In general
The Secretary may make grants to public and nonprofit private health care providers for the purpose of expanding training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer’s disease.
(b)
Recipients of grants
The public and nonprofit private health care providers to whom grants may be made under subsection (a) include health care organizations, community health centers, nursing homes, senior centers, Area Agencies on Aging, community-based organizations, and State, local, and tribal health agencies and social service agencies.
(c)
Integration of treatment, training, and support services
A condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees to employ a comprehensive approach to Alzheimer’s care that integrates treatment of patients with Alzheimer’s disease with training and support services for the patients’ families and caregivers.
(d)
Coordination
The Secretary shall coordinate with the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Women’s Health and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Minority Health in order to ensure that women, minorities, and patients who live in medically underserved communities (as defined in section 799B(6)) are able to benefit from the training and support services funded through grants under subsection (a).
(e)
Appropriate cultural context
A condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees that, in any program to be funded by such grant, services will be provided in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services are provided.
(f)
Outreach services
A condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees to provide outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the program, and to provide information on Alzheimer’s disease.
(g)
Application for grant
A grant may be made under subsection (a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
(h)
Funding
(1)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2018 through 2023.
(2)
Allocation for medically underserved communities
Of the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available not less than 10 percent for grants under subsection (a) to applicants that primarily serve medically underserved communities, as defined in section 799B(6).
.
