1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act
.
2.
United States-Israel directed energy capabilities cooperation
(a)
Authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, upon request of the Ministry of Defense of Israel and with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to carry out research, development, test, and evaluation activities, on a joint basis with Israel, to establish directed energy capabilities that address threats to the United States, deployed forces of the United States, or Israel. Any activities carried out pursuant to such authority shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information and the national security interests of the United States and the national security interests of Israel.
(2)
Report
The activities described in paragraph (1) may be carried out after the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth the following:
(A)
A memorandum of agreement between the United States and Israel regarding sharing of research and development costs for the capabilities described in paragraph (1), and any supporting documents.
(B)
A certification that the memorandum of agreement—
(i)
requires sharing of costs of projects, including in-kind support, between the United States and Israel;
(ii)
establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of agreement; and
(iii)
requires the United States Government to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the Government of Israel, including a description of what the funds have been used for, when funds were expended, and an identification of entities that expended the funds.
(b)
Support in connection with activities
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense is authorized to provide maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the directed energy capabilities research, development, test, and evaluation activities authorized in subsection (a)(1). Such authority includes authority to install equipment necessary to carry out such research, development, test, and evaluation.
(2)
Report
The support described in paragraph (1) may not be provided until 15 days after the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a detailed description of the support to be provided.
(3)
Matching contribution
The support described in paragraph (1) may not be provided unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the appropriate committees of Congress that the Government of Israel will contribute to such support—
(A)
an amount equal to not less than the amount of support to be so provided; or
(B)
an amount that otherwise meets the best efforts of Israel, as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel.
(c)
Lead agency
The Secretary of Defense shall designate an appropriate research and development entity of a military department as the lead agency of the Department of Defense in carrying out this section.
(d)
Semiannual report
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report that contains a copy of the most recent semiannual report provided by the Government of Israel to the Department of Defense pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii).
(e)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
