1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Airport Perimeter and Access Control Security Act of 2017
.
2.
Risk assessments of airport security
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) shall—
(1)
not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, update the Transportation Sector Security Risk Assessment (TSSRA) for the aviation sector; and
(2)
not later than 90 days after such date—
(A)
update with the latest and most currently available intelligence information the Comprehensive Risk Assessment of Perimeter and Access Control Security (in this Act referred to as the
Risk Assessment of Airport Security
) and determine a regular timeframe and schedule for further updates to such Risk Assessment of Airport Security; and
(B)
conduct a system-wide assessment of airport access control points and airport perimeter security.
(b)
Contents
The security risk assessments required under subsection (a)(2) shall—
(1)
include updates reflected in the TSSRA and Joint Vulnerability Assessment (JVA) findings;
(2)
reflect changes to the risk environment relating to airport access control points and airport perimeters;
(3)
use security event data for specific analysis of system-wide trends related to airport access control points and airport perimeter security to better inform risk management decisions; and
(4)
take into consideration the unique geography of and current best practices used by airports to mitigate potential vulnerabilities.
(c)
Report
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, relevant Federal departments and agencies, and airport operators on the results of the security risk assessments required under subsection (a).
3.
Airport security strategy development
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall update the 2012 National Strategy for Airport Perimeter and Access Control Security (in this section referred to as the
National Strategy
).
(b)
Contents
The update to the National Strategy required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
information from the Risk Assessment of Airport Security; and
(2)
information on—
(A)
airport security-related activities;
(B)
the status of TSA efforts to address the goals and objectives referred to in subsection (a);
(C)
finalized outcome-based performance measures and performance levels for each relevant activity and goal and objective under subparagraphs (A) and (B); and
(D)
input from airport operators.
(c)
Updates
Not later than 90 days after the update is completed under subsection (a), the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall implement a process for determining when additional updates to the strategy referred to in such subsection are needed.
