1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Troubled Nuclear Power Plants Communities Assistance Act
.
2.
Assistance for communities with troubled nuclear power plants program
(a)
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
The markets for electricity generation are rapidly evolving due to the very low cost of natural gas such that many nuclear power plants are no longer economically competitive.
(2)
Over the past 5 years, 18 nuclear power plants have permanently closed or have announced plans to close.
(3)
The impact of closure of a nuclear power plant on the local economy can be severe due to the loss of jobs and a reduced tax base.
(4)
Closure of a nuclear power plant typically means the loss of 400 to 700 highly paid workers.
(5)
A typical reactor has estimated wages for workers of $40 million annually.
(6)
Nuclear power plants are among the largest taxpayers in the jurisdictions in which they are sited, typically contributing tens of millions of dollars in local taxes.
(7)
When calculating the total tax impact (direct and secondary), the average nuclear power plant provides over $100 million in tax revenue each year to the local and State governments.
(8)
The closure of a nuclear power plant causes significant negative impacts to the GDPs of the affected States.
(9)
Stranded spent nuclear fuel prevents communities from redeveloping sites where nuclear power plants previously operated which further inhibits tax revenues.
(b)
Assistance for Communities with Troubled Nuclear Power Plants Program
(1)
Establishment
The Secretary of Energy shall establish and carry out a program to be known as the
Assistance for Communities with Troubled Nuclear Power Plants Program
(in this section referred to as the
Program
) to provide financial assistance to units of local government who have experienced a reduction in tax revenue from nuclear power plants.
(2)
Unit of local government
In this section, a unit of local government includes a county, city, town, village, school district, and special district.
(3)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive financial assistance under this section, a unit of local government shall submit to the Secretary of Energy an application that includes documentation that—
(A)
the unit of local government has experienced, or is predicted to experience, during a calendar year beginning after December 31, 2014, and ending before January 1, 2025—
(i)
a reduction of not less than 20 percent in overall tax revenue received by such unit of local government for such year compared with the average of such tax revenue for the previous 5 years; and
(ii)
a reduction in tax revenue attributable to a nuclear power plant received by such unit of local government for such year, compared with the average of such tax revenue for the previous 5 years, that is not less than 20 percent of the average for such previous 5 years of the overall tax revenue received by such unit; and
(B)
spent nuclear fuel is stored at the site of such nuclear power plant.
(4)
Assistance
(A)
In general
Subject to amounts made available in advance in appropriations Acts, financial assistance provided under this section to a unit of local government shall be made with respect to each year of the 8-year period beginning on the first day of the calendar year described in paragraph (3)(A).
(B)
Amount of assistance
Subject to amounts made available in advance in appropriations Acts, financial assistance provided under this section to a unit of local government for a year of an 8-year period shall be equal to the lesser of $10,000,000 and—
(i)
in the case of the first year of the 8-year period, 80 percent of the loss described in paragraph (3)(A)(ii) with respect to such unit;
(ii)
in the case of the second year of the 8-year period, 70 percent of such loss;
(iii)
in the case of the third year of the 8-year period, 60 percent of such loss;
(iv)
in the case of the fourth year of the 8-year period, 50 percent of such loss;
(v)
in the case of the fifth year of the 8-year period, 40 percent of such loss;
(vi)
in the case of the sixth year of the 8-year period, 30 percent of such loss;
(vii)
in the case of the seventh year of the 8-year period, 20 percent of such loss; and
(viii)
in the case of the eighth year of the 8-year period, 10 percent of such loss.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2031.
