1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preserve Fishing on Wild and Scenic River Act
.
2.
Prohibition on aquaculture facilities affecting wild and scenic rivers
(a)
Prohibition
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after the end of the 3-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act a person shall not operate an aquaculture facility unless the Secretary of the Interior has certified that such operation will not discharge a pollutant into a river any segment of which is a wild and scenic river.
(b)
Administration and certifications
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Interior shall administer this section.
(2)
Certifications
Upon receipt of a request for a certification required by subsection (a) submitted by a person operating or seeking to operate an aquaculture facility, the Secretary shall—
(A)
determine whether or not such facility will discharge a pollutant into a river any segment of which is a wild and scenic river; and
(B)
if the Secretary determines that such facility will not discharge a pollutant into a river any segment of which is a wild and scenic river, certify that determination.
(c)
Relationship to other law
This section, and a determination or certification by the Secretary under this section, shall not be construed to affect section 318 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1328
) or the authority of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under that section.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Aquaculture facility
The term
aquaculture facility
means a facility used for the propagation or rearing (or both) of aquatic species in a controlled or selected environment. The term does not include any fish hatchery operated by a Federal or State agency.
(2)
Pollutant
The term
pollutant
has the meaning that term has under section 502(6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1362(6)
).
(3)
River
The term
river
has the meaning that term has under section 16(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (
16 U.S.C. 1286(a)
).
(4)
Wild and scenic river
The term
wild and scenic river
means any waters included in the national wild and scenic rivers system under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (
16 U.S.C. 1271
et seq.).
