1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Assuring Contracting Equity Act of 2017
.
2.
Federal contracting goals
(a)
Increase in certain goals
Section 15(g)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
not less than 23 percent
and inserting
not less than 25 percent
;
(2)
by striking
not less than 5 percent
each place that term appears and inserting
not less than 10 percent
; and
(3)
by striking
not less than 3 percent
each place that term appears and inserting
not less than 6 percent
.
(b)
Limitation on number of categories for which a small business may qualify
Section 15(g) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(g)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Limitation on number of categories for which a small business may qualify
(A)
Definition
In this paragraph, the term
specified category
means small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned and controlled by women.
(B)
Limitation
Except as provided under subparagraph (C), a Federal agency may include a small business concern in not more than 2 specified categories for purposes of determining whether the Federal agency has met the Governmentwide goals under this subsection for the award of contracts to business concerns in specified categories.
(C)
Rule of construction
A Federal agency may not include a small business concern that is participating in the program under section 8(a) in any specified category except the category
small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals
for purposes of determining whether the Federal agency has met the Governmentwide goals under this subsection for the award of contracts to business concerns in specified categories.
.
3.
Improving transparency to assist small business concerns
Section 15(h)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(h)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (E)(viii)(VIII), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the following new subparagraph:
(G)
for the Federal Government, the percentage of participation by small business concerns for the total value of all prime contract awards and subcontract awards for a fiscal year, including the value of each prime contract and subcontract awarded for the fiscal year.
.
4.
Compliance with small business subcontracting goals
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall consult with the heads of other Federal agencies to develop and implement standards for procurement officers to take into consideration the past compliance of potential contractors with small business subcontracting goals when making contract awards.
