1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Building Supportive Networks for Women Veterans Act
.
2.
Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly separated from service in the Armed Forces
(a)
Permanent program
(1)
In general
Chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1712C
the following new section:
1712D.
Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly separated
(a)
Program
(1)
Commencing on January 1, 2018, the Secretary shall carry out, through the Readjustment Counseling Service of the Veterans Health Administration, a program to provide reintegration and readjustment services described in subsection (b) in group retreat settings to women veterans who are recently separated from service in the Armed Forces after a prolonged deployment.
(2)
The participation of a veteran in the program under paragraph (1) shall be at the election of the veteran.
(b)
Covered services
The services provided to a woman veteran under the program under subsection (a)(1) shall include the following:
(1)
Information on reintegration into the family, employment, and community of the veteran.
(2)
Financial counseling.
(3)
Occupational counseling.
(4)
Information and counseling on stress reduction.
(5)
Information and counseling on conflict resolution.
(6)
Such other information and counseling as the Secretary considers appropriate to assist the veteran in reintegration into the family, employment, and community of the veteran.
(c)
Biennial reports
Not later than December 31, 2018, and each even-numbered year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the program under subsection (a)(1).
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1712C the following new item:
1712D. Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly separated.
.
(b)
Conforming repeal
Effective December 31, 2017, section 203 of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (
38 U.S.C. 1712A
note) is repealed.
