1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Higher Education and Employment Transparency Act
.
2.
Occupational employment statistics
(a)
Requirements for the secretary of education
Section 132(i)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1015a(i)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (V), by adding at the end the following:
(v)
Employment and earnings information required to be provided by the institution under section 485(a)(1)(R) with respect to graduates of the institution’s degree or certificate programs.
;
(2)
by amending subparagraph (W) to read as follows:
(W)
A link to the Occupational Outlook Handbook section of the Bureau of Labor Statistics website, which includes regional data on starting salaries in all major occupations from the Occupational Employment Statistics program.
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(AA)
A link to a website that provides information, based on data from Federal or State agencies (including the Social Security Administration, the Bureau of the Census, or State agencies (designated or authorized under section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (
29 U.S.C. 49c
)), on the employment and earnings of former students, disaggregated by institution and by completion status of such students.
.
(b)
Requirements for institutions of higher education
(1)
Institutional and financial assistance information for students
Section 485(a)(1)(R) of such Act (
20 U.S.C. 1092(a)(1)(R)
) is amended to read as follows:
(R)
the placement in employment of, and median earnings of former students of the institution, disaggregated by program of study and by completion status of such students, based on data from Federal or State agencies (including the Social Security Administration, Bureau of the Census, or State agencies (designated or authorized under section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (
29 U.S.C. 49c
));
.
(2)
Program participation agreements
Section 487(a) of such Act (
20 U.S.C. 1094(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(30)
The institution will provide a prominent link on the institution’s website to the pages or information required by subparagraphs (V)(v), (W), and (AA) of section 132(i)(1).
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall be effective beginning on July 1, 2019.
