1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Accessing Professional Partnerships and Resources to Enable Necessary Training and Improve Career Education Act of 2018
or the
APPRENTICE Act
.
2.
Apprenticeship Grant Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Labor shall provide grants to State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship programs, on a competitive basis, to support the expansion, awareness, and prestige of such programs.
(b)
Amounts
The amount of a grant made to a State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship program under this section may not exceed $100,000.
(c)
Uses of amounts
Amounts received under this section shall only be used to carry out the following:
(1)
Train personnel who administer State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship programs or who supervise or train individuals participating in such apprenticeship programs.
(2)
Publicize State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship programs on the internet, including on employment-related databases and search engines for job listings, and through public campaigns.
(3)
Provide funds to educators from local educational institutions to visit State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship program sites to learn about such programs.
(4)
Review applications submitted to State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship programs by prospective apprentices.
(5)
Coordinate State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship program curricula efforts with the curricula of local educational institutions and programs funded under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.).
(d)
Application requirements
A State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship program seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary determines.
(e)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the program, including the number of apprentices recruited and retained by State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship programs that receive amounts under this section.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, and each fiscal year thereafter.
3.
Ease of navigation
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall—
(1)
improve the navigability of the Department of Labor database containing registered apprenticeship programs;
(2)
publicize the ease by which an apprenticeship program seeking to register with the Department of Labor may become a registered apprenticeship program; and
(3)
coordinate with local and State Departments of Labor to publicize registered apprenticeship programs.
(b)
External link
The Secretary of Education shall include an external link to the Department of Labor database containing registered apprenticeship programs on the Department of Education website.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
(2)
Prospective apprentice
The term
prospective apprentice
means current or prospective applicants to a State-recognized or federally recognized apprenticeship program.
(3)
Secretary
Except as otherwise provided, the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor.
