1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Child Care Access Means Parents in School Reauthorization Act
or the
CCAMPIS Reauthorization Act
.
2.
Amendments to CCAMPIS
Section 419N of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070e
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting the following:
(A)
In general
The Secretary
; and
(ii)
by adding the following:
(B)
Reservation
The Secretary shall reserve not less than 3 percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (g) for a fiscal year to award grants under this section to Tribal Colleges and Universities (defined in section 316) that meet the requirements of this section, except that the requirements of paragraph (4) of this subsection shall not be applicable to such institutions.
; and
(B)
in paragraph (4), by striking
An institution
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (1)(B), an institution
;
(2)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Stakeholder Consultation
The Secretary shall work with relevant stakeholders to determine the manner in which the data described in subparagraph (B) shall be collected in order to ensure compliance with such subparagraph.
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Publication of reports
Not later than 1 year after the first report is submitted under paragraph (1), as amended by the CCAMPIS Reauthorization Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall publish the reports submitted under paragraph (1) for the preceding year on the public website of the Department.
; and
(3)
by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $67,000,000 for fiscal year 2018 and each succeeding fiscal year.
.
3.
Report by office of postsecondary education
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education (acting through the Office of Postsecondary Education) shall report to Congress on the plans of the Department of Education to better serve postsecondary students with dependents.
