1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Affordable Housing Protection Act
.
2.
Pass-through lease arrangements for uninhabitable dwelling units
Section 8(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437f(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
Pass-through lease arrangements
(A)
In general
Any owner of a covered dwelling unit that was rendered uninhabitable shall, if approved by the Secretary, temporarily lease a habitable dwelling unit in another building for the covered resident for the period during which such unit is repaired.
(B)
Guidance
The Secretary shall issue guidance establishing policies for a temporary lease arrangement described in subparagraph (A), which shall include—
(i)
a description of the process and the length of time allowed for identifying a habitable dwelling unit in another building; and
(ii)
procedures if such a habitable dwelling unit is not available.
(C)
Payments
The following conditions shall apply to a temporary lease arrangement described under subparagraph (A):
(i)
Owner payments
The owner of a covered dwelling unit shall be responsible for ensuring that the owner of the unit temporarily leased receives monthly payments for rent.
(ii)
Covered resident payments
A covered resident residing in a unit temporarily leased shall make monthly payments for rent to the owner of the covered dwelling unit such covered resident previously occupied. Such payments may not exceed the maximum monthly rent established pursuant to the assistance contract.
(D)
Repaired covered dwelling units
Upon completion of repairs to a covered dwelling unit that was rendered uninhabitable, the owner of such unit shall provide written notice to the covered resident that such unit is habitable and that the covered resident may choose to return to such unit. The owner may not offer such unit to another eligible applicant under this section unless—
(i)
the covered resident chooses not to return to such unit; and
(ii)
the owner terminates the temporary lease arrangement described in subparagraph (A).
(E)
Application
This paragraph shall apply to the renewal of any assistance contract for project-based assistance under this section.
(F)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Covered dwelling unit
The term
covered dwelling unit
means an existing dwelling unit that receives project-based assistance through an assistance contract under this section.
(ii)
Covered resident
The term
covered resident
means a resident of a covered dwelling unit before such unit was rendered uninhabitable.
(iii)
Habitable dwelling unit
The term
habitable dwelling unit
means a dwelling unit for which a third party inspector approved by the Secretary, has determined meets housing quality standards established under section 6(f) or physical condition standards and physical inspection requirements under section 200.855 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations.
.
