1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Crab Emergency Disaster Assistance Act of 2017
.
2.
Fishery resource disaster assistance for the 2015–16 dungeness crab and rock crab fisheries disaster
(a)
Disaster assistance
(1)
Appropriation of funds
In addition to any other funds available for such purpose, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $117,393,750 to make a lump sum payment to the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission.
(2)
Distribution
The Commission shall distribute such amount among fishing communities, Indian Tribes, small businesses, including fishermen, fish processors, and related businesses, individuals, and other entities, for assistance for the economic and social effects of the fishery resource disaster for the 2015–16 Dungeness crab and rock crab fisheries as determined by the Secretary of the Commerce on January 18, 2017, and to mitigate the economic losses to such communities, Tribes, businesses, individuals, or other entities caused by fishing closures or other restrictions on the harvesting of Dungeness crab or rock crab.
(3)
Availability
Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain available for the period with respect to which the determination referred to in paragraph (2) is made.
(4)
Unused funds
Any amount appropriated by this subsection that is not expended or otherwise obligated for the purpose described in paragraph (1) shall be returned to the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Research
(1)
Appropriation of funds
There is appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce—
(A)
$1,000,000 for West Coast domoic acid sampling and monitoring; and
(B)
$5,000,000 for competitive grants for projects, activities, and research that advance the capacity—
(i)
to predict the occurrence of harmful algal blooms in the offshore waters of California, Washington, and Oregon; and
(ii)
to evaluate the toxicity of domoic acid bioaccumulation and transmission to humans through the food supply.
(2)
Establishment of grant program
The Secretary shall establish a grant program with amounts appropriated by paragraph (1)(B) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Limitation on administrative expenses
The Secretary of Commerce may not use more than 4 percent of the amount appropriated under each of subsections (a) and (b) for administrative expenses.
