1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
District of Columbia Public-Private Partnerships Home Rule Act
.
2.
Authorizing District of Columbia to enter into multi-year agreements to carry out public-private partnership proj­ects and pay termination costs in any fiscal year
(a)
Authorizing agreements and payments
Notwithstanding any provision of subchapter III of chapter 13 or subchapter II of
chapter 15
of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as the
Anti-Deficiency Act
) and subject to subsection (b), the District of Columbia may enter into a multi-year public-private partnership agreement under the Public–Private Partnership Act of 2014 (sec. 2–271.01 et seq., D.C. Official Code) and make payments for the termination costs under such an agreement in any fiscal year.
(b)
Conditions for payments for termination costs
(1)
Approval by Chief Financial Officer
The District of Columbia may make a payment under subsection (a) in any fiscal year for termination costs described in such subsection only if the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia certifies that a source of funds is available for the payment from other appropriations then available for any other purpose, consistent with the limitations of paragraph (2).
(2)
Prohibiting use of reserve funds as source of payments
The funds used to make a payment under subsection (a) for termination costs described in such subsection may not be derived from amounts held in the emergency cash reserve fund described in section 450A(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.50a(a), D.C. Official Code) or the contingency cash reserve fund described in section 450A(b) of such Act (sec. 1–204.50a(b), D.C. Official Code).
(c)
Treatment of funds used To make payments
Any funds certified by the Chief Financial Officer as available to be used to make a payment under subsection (a) for termination costs described in such subsection shall be deemed to have been appropriated for the purpose of the payment, shall retain appropriations authority for such purpose, and shall remain available until expended for such purpose.
(d)
Effective date
This Act shall apply with respect to payments made during fiscal year 2019 or any succeeding fiscal year.
