1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology Act
or the
INTERDICT Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Chemical screening device
The term
chemical screening device
means an infrared spectrophotometer, mass spectrometer, nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer, Raman spectrophotometer, or other scientific instrumentation able to collect data that can be interpreted to determine the presence of fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances.
(2)
Express consignment operator or carrier
The term
express consignment operator or carrier
has the meaning given that term in section 128.1 of title 19, Code of Federal Regulations (or any similar successor regulation).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
3.
Interdiction of fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances
(a)
Chemical screening devices
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall—
(1)
increase the number of chemical screening devices available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection over the number of such devices that are available on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
make such additional chemical screening devices available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection as the Secretary determines are necessary for U.S. Customs and Border Protection to carry out activities to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances that are illegally imported into the United States, including such substances that are imported through the mail or by an express consignment operator or carrier.
(b)
Personnel To interpret data
The Secretary shall dedicate the appropriate number of personnel, including scientists, to U.S. Customs and Border Protection so that personnel are available during all operational hours to interpret data collected by chemical screening devices.
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $15,000,000 to ensure that U.S. Customs and Border Protection—
(1)
has sufficient resources and personnel, including scientists, available during all operational hours to prevent the unlawful importation of fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances; and
(2)
is provided with sufficient chemical screening devices to facilitate the effective and efficient detection and identification of such substances.
