1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
North Korea Intelligence Enhancement Act
.
2.
North Korea monitoring and enforcement
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish an integration cell (in this section referred to as the
Integration Cell
) among relevant elements of the intelligence community to integrate intelligence relating to the monitoring and enforcement of United Nations Security Council resolutions with respect to North Korea.
(b)
Duties
The Integration Cell shall—
(1)
coordinate and synchronize all intelligence collection relating to the implementation of sanctions against North Korea;
(2)
integrate the early warning systems of the intelligence community with respect to detecting activities by North Korea to proliferate weapons of mass destruction;
(3)
identify any gaps in intelligence relating to the monitoring of the nuclear weapons program of North Korea; and
(4)
provide net assessments and recommendations to the Director of National Intelligence relating to North Korea.
(c)
Structure
(1)
Head
The Integration Cell shall be headed by a member of the Senior Intelligence Service, who shall report to the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
Staffing
The Integration Cell may be staffed by detailing or assigning to the Integration Cell personnel of an element of the intelligence community, or core contractor personnel of such an element, who would otherwise conduct such work as part of their normal responsibilities at such element.
(d)
Reports
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a report that includes the following:
(1)
A detailed description of the activities of the Integration Cell.
(2)
Recommendations for the better collection of intelligence on activities by North Korea to proliferate weapons of mass destruction.
(e)
Intelligence community defined
In this section, the term
intelligence community
has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003(4)
).
