1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Contractor Accountability and Workplace Safety Act of 2017
.
2.
Department of Defense contractor workplace safety and accountability
(a)
Identification of known workplace safety and health violations
(1)
In general
A contracting officer, prior to awarding or renewing a covered contract, shall, as part of the responsibility determination, consider any identified violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (
29 U.S.C. 651
et seq.) or equivalent State laws by the offeror, and by any covered subcontractors.
(2)
Responsibility determination
The contracting officer shall consider violations described in paragraph (1) in determining whether the offeror is a responsible source with a satisfactory record of performance that meets mission and ethical standards.
(3)
Referral of information to suspension and debarment officials
As appropriate, a contracting officer shall refer matters related to violations described in paragraph (1) to the Department of Defense's suspension and debarment official in accordance with Department procedures.
(b)
Contractor rights
The Secretary of Defense shall establish policies and practices—
(1)
ensuring that when making responsibility determinations, contracting officers request that contractors provide any and all information the contractors deem necessary to demonstrate responsibility prior to final determinations;
(2)
establishing mechanisms for contractors to have an expedited process to review any information used to support determinations of non-responsibility; and
(3)
establishing mechanisms for contractors to have an expedited process to appeal determinations of non-responsibility.
(c)
Protest rights
The Secretary of Defense shall protect the rights of contractors to protest bids and appeal actions taken pursuant to this section.
(d)
Training and guidance
The Secretary of Defense shall develop and provide clear training and guidance to acquisition officials, contracting officers, and current and potential contractors regarding implementation policies and practices for this section.
(e)
Comptroller General report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Department of Defense and the congressional defense committees a report on the health and safety records of Department of Defense contractors.
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
A description of the Department of Defense's existing procedures to evaluate the safety and health records of current and prospective contractors.
(B)
An evaluation of the Department's adherence to those procedures.
(C)
An assessment of the current incidence of health and safety violations by Department contractors.
(D)
An assessment of whether the Department of Labor has the resources to investigate and identify safety and health violations by Department of Defense contractors.
(E)
An assessment of whether the Department of Labor should consider assuming an expanded investigatory role or a targeted enforcement program for ensuring the safety and health of workers under Department of Defense contracts.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Congressional defense committees
The term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Covered contract
The term
covered contract
means a Department of Defense contract for the procurement of property or services, including construction, valued in excess of $1,000,000.
(3)
Covered subcontractor
The term
covered subcontractor
means a subcontractor listed in the bid for a covered contract or known by the Department of Defense to be a subcontractor of the offeror.
