1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Empowering Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act
.
2.
Grants for training school staff to recognize and respond to signs of labor and sex trafficking
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the Department of Justice may award grants to local educational agencies to establish, expand, and support programs—
(1)
to train school staff to recognize and respond to signs of labor trafficking and sex trafficking; and
(2)
to provide classroom curricula to students on how to avoid becoming victims of labor trafficking and sex trafficking.
(b)
Program requirements
A program funded through a grant under this section shall include—
(1)
training on—
(A)
indicators that an individual is a victim or potential victim of labor trafficking or sex trafficking;
(B)
options and procedures for referring such an individual, as appropriate, to—
(i)
information on such trafficking; and
(ii)
legal, social, and health services for victims of such trafficking;
(C)
reporting requirements and procedures in accordance with applicable Federal and State law; and
(D)
how to administer classroom curricula provided pursuant to subsection (a)(2); and
(2)
a plan, developed and implemented in consultation with local law enforcement authorities, to ensure the safety of school staff reporting such trafficking.
(c)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the Department of Justice shall give priority to local educational agencies serving a high-intensity child sex trafficking area.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
;
local educational agency
;
other staff
; and
secondary school
have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(2)
High-intensity child sex trafficking area
The term
high-intensity child sex trafficking area
means a metropolitan area designated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a high intensity child prostitution area.
(3)
Labor trafficking
The term
labor trafficking
means conduct described in section 103(9)(B) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(B)
).
(4)
School staff
The term
school staff
means teachers, nurses, security personnel, school leaders and administrators, and other staff at elementary schools and secondary schools.
(5)
Sex trafficking
The term
sex trafficking
means the conduct described in section 103(9)(A) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(A)
).
