1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Interagency Cybersecurity Cooperation Act
.
2.
Interagency communications security committee
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications Commission shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the Interagency Communications Security Committee (in this section referred to as the
Committee
).
(b)
Duties
The Committee shall—
(1)
review each communications security report submitted to the Committee under subsection (d) or (f);
(2)
recommend investigation to relevant agencies into any such communications security report; and
(3)
issue regular reports containing the results of any such investigation, the Committee’s findings following each communications security incident, and policy recommendations that may arise from each communications security incident to the following:
(A)
The agencies represented on the Committee.
(B)
The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
(C)
The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
(D)
The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(E)
The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(F)
The Armed Services Committee of the House of Representatives.
(G)
The Armed Services Committee of the Senate.
(H)
The Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(I)
The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(J)
The Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives.
(K)
The Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate.
(c)
Membership
The Committee shall be composed of 8 members, who shall each possess the appropriate access to classified information commensurate with the sensitivity of the classified information such members shall access in the course of service on the Committee. The members of the Committee shall include only—
(1)
one appointee from the Commission, who shall not be a member of the Commission, to be appointed by the Chair of the Commission, who shall serve as Chair of the Committee;
(2)
one appointee from the Department of Defense, to be appointed by the Secretary of Defense;
(3)
one appointee from the Department of Homeland Security, to be appointed by the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(4)
one appointee from the Department of Justice, to be appointed by the Attorney General of the United States;
(5)
one appointee from the intelligence community, to be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence;
(6)
one appointee from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to be appointed by the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
(7)
one appointee from the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, to be appointed by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information; and
(8)
one appointee from the Office of Management and Budget, to be appointed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(d)
Public communications security reports
The Committee shall consider communications security reports from communications network providers.
(e)
Application of critical infrastructure information protections
For purposes of subtitle B of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 131
et seq.)—
(1)
communications networks shall be treated as critical infrastructure and protected systems defined in sections 2(4) and 212(6), respectively, of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002
(
6 U.S.C. 101(4)
;
6 U.S.C. 131(6)
); and
(2)
with respect to critical infrastructure information relating to communications networks, the Federal Communications Commission (in addition to the Department of Homeland Security) shall be treated as a covered Federal agency defined in section 212(2) of such Act.
(f)
Agency communications security reports
Not less frequently than every 3 months, the head of each agency shall submit to the Committee a report of each communications security incident for the previous 3 months.
(g)
Continuation of committee
Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to the Committee.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.
(2)
Communications network
In this section, the term
communications network
means a network for the provision of wireline or mobile telephone service, Internet access service, radio or television broadcasting, cable service, direct broadcast satellite service, or any other communications service.
(3)
Communications security incident
The term
communications security incident
means any compromise, whether electronic or otherwise, of any telecommunications system that the agency has reason to believe—
(A)
resulted in Government-held or private information, including passwords and other similar means of access, being viewed or extracted; or
(B)
resulted in the presence of outside programming on an agency computer or other electronic device.
(4)
Communications Security Report
The term
communications security report
means a description of a communications security incident or multiple communications security incidents referred to the Committee.
