1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act of 2018
.
2.
Prohibition on further extension of requirement to implement positive train control
Section 20157 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2)—
(A)
by striking subparagraph (B);
(B)
by redesignating subparagraph (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively;
(C)
in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B)) by striking
, including any alternative schedule and sequence, as applicable,
; and
(D)
in subparagraph (C) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B)) by striking
including any amendments or any alternative schedule and sequence approved by the Secretary under paragraph (3)
and inserting
including any amendments to such plan
;
(2)
by striking subsection (a)(3);
(3)
in subsection (c)(1)(C) by striking
or subsection (a)(2)(B)
;
(4)
in subsection (c)(2) by striking
or any alternative schedule and sequence approved by the Secretary
;
(5)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
in paragraph (2) by inserting
and
at the end;
(B)
in paragraph (3) by striking
subsection (a)(2)(C); and
and inserting
subsection (a)(2)(B).
; and
(C)
by striking paragraph (4); and
(6)
by striking subsection (g)(4)(A)(iii) and inserting the following:
(iii)
requiring the submission, as part of the revised plan under subsection (a)(1), of only a schedule and sequence under subsection (a)(2)(A)(iii)(VII).
.
3.
Grants for certain entities to implement positive train control
Section 20157 of title 49, United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(m)
Grants for certain entities To implement positive train control
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall provide grants to entities providing regularly scheduled intercity or commuter rail passenger transportation to implement positive train control systems under this section.
(2)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out paragraph (1) $2,572,000,000, to remain available until December 31, 2018.
.
4.
Prohibition on provision of certain new routes
Section 20157 of title 49, United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(n)
Prohibition on provision of certain new routes
An entity providing regularly scheduled intercity or commuter rail passenger transportation may not begin service on any new route that is subject to the requirements of this section unless a positive train control system is fully implemented and operational on such route.
.
5.
Reporting requirements
(a)
Quarterly and annual progress reports
Amtrak shall include in each annual progress report required under 20157(c) of title 49, United States Code, and each quarterly progress report required by the Federal Railroad Administration a detailed status report on the progress made toward implementing a positive train control system on each route Amtrak owns or operates intercity passenger rail transportation, including the Northeast Corridor, each long distance route, and each State-supported route. Amtrak shall provide such information by route and include, at a minimum, the information required on the Federal Railroad Administration’s Quarterly PTC Progress Report Form (FRA F 6180.165).
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
Northeast Corridor
,
long distance route
, and
State-supported route
have the meanings given the terms in section 24102 of title 49, United States Code.
