1.
Duty upon sale of certain used yachts
(a)
In general
Title IV of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.) is amended by striking section 484b and inserting the following:
484b.
Duty upon sale of certain used yachts
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any used yacht that has a valid cruising license under the laws of the United States may enter, may be offered for sale in, and may remain in, the customs territory of the United States without the payment of duty, except that—
(1)
if the used yacht, while in the customs territory of the United States, is sold to a resident of the United States—
(A)
entry of the used yacht shall be completed and duty shall be deposited with U.S. Customs and Border Protection within 15 days after the date on which the sale is completed; and
(B)
any yacht broker or dealer involved in the sale shall collect the duty and remit the duty to U.S. Customs and Border Protection within 15 days after the date on which the sale is completed; and
(2)
duty on the sale of a yacht described in paragraph (1) shall be calculated at the applicable rate provided under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and shall be based upon the value of the yacht at the time of sale.
(b)
No posting of bond
No bond may be required to be posted, upon entry of a used yacht into the customs territory of the United States, for the duty otherwise payable on the entry of a used yacht to which subsection (a) applies.
(c)
Definition
As used in this section, the term
used yacht
means a vessel that has been sold, before the vessel is brought into the customs territory of the United States, by a manufacturer or dealer to a retail consumer and that is used primarily for recreation or pleasure.
(d)
Regulations
The Commissioner responsible for U.S. Customs and Border Protection may issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
.
(b)
Relationship to Harmonized Tariff Schedule
Additional U.S. Note 1 to chapter 89 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States is amended by inserting
, subject to section 484b of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1484b
)
after
payment of duty
.
2.
Effective date
The amendments made by section 1 shall apply to vessels entering the customs territory of the United States on or after the 15th day after the date of the enactment of this Act.
