SECTION 1. Establishment of the Commission. There is hereby established a   on   Within   (hereinafter referred to as  "), to be composed of a Chairman and other members to be appointed by the President.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. The   shall:

(a) Ascertain and evaluate any facts relating to activities conducted within   by   which give rise to questions of compliance with the provisions of 50 U.S.C. 403;

(b) Determine whether existing safeguards are adequate to prevent any activities which violate the provisions of 50 U.S.C. 403;

(c) Make such recommendations to the President and to the Director of   as the   deems appropriate.

 . 3. Cooperation by and with Executive Departments and Agencies. The   is authorized to request, at the direction of the Chairman, from any executive department or agency, any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order. Each department or agency shall furnish such information and assistance to the  , to the extent permitted by law. The   shall furnish to the Attorney General any evidence found by the   which may relate to offenses under the statutes of  .

 . 4. Compensation, Personnel, and  . (a) Each member of the   may receive compensation for   he or she is engaged upon the work of the   at not to exceed the   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for persons and positions in GS-18, as authorized by law and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons in the government service intermittently employed.

(b) The   shall have an Executive Director who shall be designated by the President and shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified. The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions, and is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C.  .

(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the   shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Personnel Needs"   93-381, 88 Stat. 617, or from such other funds as may be available.

 . 5.  .   shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 6. Report and Termination. The   shall present its final report to the President not   from the date of this order. It shall terminate within   after presenting its final report.
