SECTION 1. Responsibilities of the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall be responsible for:

(1) assisting the transportation industry by planning, developing, and testing cargo security measures and by providing technical assistance and arranging demonstration projects related thereto;

(2) coordinating the activities of   departments and agencies relating to the prevention of cargo theft, and studying means by which Government agencies can, through the procurement of transportation services, improve the cargo security programs of common carriers;

(3) collecting and analyzing cargo loss data for all modes of transportation, and preparing and publishing periodic reports on the extent and nature of theft-related cargo losses, local and national loss trends, and other special analyses useful to the development of theft prevention measures; and

(4) issuing, after coordination with the interested Federal departments and agencies and after opportunity for public comment,   for the prevention of cargo losses by any elements of the transportation industry, including shippers and receivers.

 . 2. Responsibilities of the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall be responsible for:

(1) developing and conducting programs designed to promote the coordination of Federal, State, and local law enforcement efforts against criminal activity relating to cargo thefts; and

(2) supporting, to the extent possible and appropriate, the provision of financial assistance to   and local law enforcement organizations for the establishment and maintenance of cargo theft prevention programs and for the investigation, prosecution, and prevention of cargo theft.

 . 3. Responsibilities of the Secretary of the  . The Secretary of the   shall be responsible for:

(1) fostering the security of international cargo in customs custody within ports of entry and in its movement and storage in bond;

(2) investigating the theft of cargo stolen from customs custody and, consistent with the responsibilities of  , the theft of firearms, ammunition, explosives, tobacco, and alcohol;

(3) analyzing cargo theft reports to identify theft-conducive practices and theft-prone facilities employed in the handling of cargo controlled by   at ports of entry, providing for the implementation of cargo security advisory standards with respect to that cargo, and initiating other corrective measures as appropriate; and

(4) coordinating with   and other interested Federal departments and agencies measures being proposed to improve the security of cargo at facilities controlled by  .

 . 4. Recommended Actions by  .  ,  , and   are urged, in exercising their regulatory responsibilities, to recognize and consider the problem of theft-related cargo losses and encourage preventive measures, and to continue to cooperate with   by:

(1) developing cargo theft reporting systems affording full opportunity for presentation of views by the public,  , other interested Federal departments and agencies, and those elements of the transportation industry from which reports would be required;

(2) obtaining cargo loss data from carriers, freight forwarders, and terminal operators (including such information as cargo lost, missing, stolen, presumed stolen, or damaged as a result of theft) ; and

(3) providing   with the cargo loss data collected in a form that will permit both general and detailed analyses and preparation of reports on an intermodal and national basis.

 . 5. Recommended Action by  . All Federal departments and agencies, in their procurement of transportation services for goods and commodities, are urged to encourage carriers to adopt cargo theft prevention measures.

 . 6. Report and  . The Secretary of   shall submit to me on  , and   thereafter, a report evaluating and making recommendations concerning the effectiveness of the   program prescribed by this   in reducing theft-related cargo losses.
