SECTION 1. Establishment of  . (a) There is hereby established    .

(b) The   shall consist of not more than 35 members to be appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. The President shall designate the presiding officer, who may designate from among the members of the   as many vice presiding officers as necessary.

(c) The President of the   and the Speaker of   are invited to designate two Members of each   to serve on the  .

(d) The members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to receive travel expenses, including per diem, in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The   shall promote the national observance in   of International Women's Year. To this end, it will focus attention on the need to encourage appropriate and relevant cooperative activity in the field of women's rights and responsibilities.

(b) The   shall take as its action agenda the relevant parts of the resolution adopted by   proclaiming   as  (1) To promote equality between men and women.

(2) To ensure the full integration of women in the total development effort, especially by emphasizing women's responsibility and important role in economic, social and cultural development at the national, regional and international levels, particularly during the Second United Nations Development Decade.

(3) To recognize the importance of women's increasing contribution to the development of friendly relations and cooperation among   and to the strengthening of world peace.

(c) The   shall keep itself informed of activities undertaken or planned by various organizations and groups in   in observance of the Year and shall consult with such groups including  .

(d) The   shall encourage the public and private sectors to set forth objectives to be achieved as part of the program observing  , as provided in the Presidential Proclamation.

(e) The   shall, through close liaison with appropriate Government agencies and their public advisory committees, keep itself informed about and make known to the public all major programs and special efforts during   which are supported by those agencies.

(f) The   shall hold meetings at such times and places as the presiding officer shall determine. It may assemble and disseminate information, issue reports and other publications and conduct such other activities as it may deem appropriate to provide for effective participation of   in the domestic observance of  .

(g) The   may establish, within the limits of available funds, such subcommittees or working groups as may be necessary for the fulfillment of its tasks. The membership may include persons not members of the  .

(h) The   shall conclude its work by   and make a report to the President within   thereafter. The   shall then be terminated.

 . 3. Assistance and Cooperation. (a) The   may request any agency of the   branch of the   to furnish it with such information, advice, and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the  's functions under this  .

(b) The agencies of the   branch are authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to provide the   with administrative services, information, facilities and funds necessary for its activities.

(c) The   may procure, subject to the availability of funds, the temporary professional services of individuals to assist in its work, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code.

 . 4. Responsibilities of Government Departments. Each agency of the   branch shall designate at least two persons, preferably a man and a woman, to be responsible for planning and implementation of projects and programs within such departments and agencies for the domestic observance of  . Persons so designated shall constitute membership of an interdepartmental task force for  .   shall designate the presiding officer. The task force will coordinate the activities undertaken by the   branch of   as well as those undertaken by the   in the domestic observance of  .
