SECTION 1. The following expired headnotes and items for the products of   and of   are deleted from    :

 . 2. The article descriptions, including superior headings, for   items 175.09 and 176.04 are amended to read, respectively, "Copra" and "Coconut Oil".

 . 3. A column entitled " " is added to the left of, and adjacent to, the column entitled "Item" on each page of schedules 1 through 7 of the  . The designations "A" or "A*", as specified in general headnote 3 (c) (ii) of the  , as added by Section 9 of this  , shall be placed in the column entitled " " opposite the   item number of each article which has been designated as an eligible article for purposes of  .

 . 4. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of  ,     are amended as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. The articles, identified by item numbers of    , as modified by this  , set forth in Annex II and  , attached hereto and made a part hereof, are designated, pursuant to Section 503 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.SC.  ), as eligible articles for purposes of  , and shall be given duty-free treatment as set forth in General Headnote 3 (c) of the  , as added by Section 9 of this  .

 . 6. The designation "A" shall be inserted in the column entitled " " of the  , as modified by this  , opposite the   item numbers set forth in Annex II of this  .

 . 7. The designation "A*" shall be inserted in the column entitled " " of the  , as modified by this  , opposite the   item numbers set forth in Annex III of this  .

 . 8. The countries set forth in General Headnote 3 (c) (i) of the  , as added by Section 9 of this  , are hereby designated as beneficiary developing countries.

 . 9. A new General   (c) of the   is hereby added as follows:

"(c) Products of Countries Designated Beneficiary Developing Countries for Purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences ( ):

"(i) The following countries and territories are designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of  , provided for in Title V of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.):

"(ii) Articles for which the designations "A" or "A*" appear in the column entitled " " of the schedules are those designated by the President to be eligible articles for purposes of the   pursuant to Section 503 of the Trade Act. The designation "A" signifies that all beneficiary developing countries are eligible for preferential treatment with respect to all articles provided for in the designated TSUS item, while the designation "A*" indicates that certain beneficiary developing countries, specifically enumerated in subdivision (c) (iii) of this headnote, are not eligible for such preferential treatment with regard to any article provided for in the designated TSUS item. Whenever an eligible article is imported into the customs territory of   directly from a country or territory listed in subdivision (c) (i) of this headnote, it shall receive duty-free treatment, unless excluded from such treatment by  ) (iii) of this headnote, provided that, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the  :

"(A) The sum of (1) the cost or value of the materials produced in the beneficiary developing country, plus (2) the direct costs of processing operations performed in such country is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of such article at the time of its entry into the customs territory of  ; or

"(B) The sum of (1) the cost or value of the material produced in two or more beneficiary developing countries which are members of the same association of countries which is treated as one country under Section 502(a) (3) of the Trade Act, plus (2) the direct cost of processing operations performed in such countries is not less than 50 percent of the appraised value of such article at the time of its entry into the customs territory of  ; "and provided further that, for the purposes of (A) above, the term "country" does not include an association of countries which is treated as one country under Section 502(a) (3) of the Trade Act, but does include a country which is a member of any such association.

"(iii) The following designated eligible articles provided for in   item numbers preceded by the designation "A*", if imported from a beneficiary developing country set opposite the   item numbers listed below, are not entitled to the duty-free treatment provided for in subdivision (c) (ii) of this headnote:

 . 10. The provisions of this   shall be effective with respect to articles that are both (1) imported, and (2) (a) entered for consumption or (b) withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after the effective date of this  .

 . 11. Executive  . 11844 of March  , is superseded.

 . 12. This   shall be effective on  .
