SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . There is hereby established a committee which shall be known as   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

 . 2. Composition of the Committee. The   shall be composed of the following members:

(a) A Chairman who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) Two other members who shall be appointed by the President.

(c) One member who shall be designated by the Secretary of Agriculture from among the personnel of  .

(d) One member who shall be designated by the Secretary of   from among the personnel of  .

 . 3. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall promote the protection of the primitive quality of the Quetico-Superior canoe country, which lies in the Rainy River and Pigeon River drainages along   in the province of   and   in  .

(b) In carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the   shall advise and consult with the appropriate executive departments and agencies of   and of  , and shall from time to time make such recommendations as it deems proper.

 . 4. Terms; compensation. (a) The members of the   first appointed pursuant to sections 2 (a) and 2 (b) of this order shall be appointed for terms expiring   from the date of this order and their successors shall be appointed for terms of  , except that any vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired balance of the term.

(b) Members designated under sections 2 (c) and 2 (d) of this order shall serve during the pleasure of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , respectively.

(c) No compensation shall be paid to appointive members of the   by   by reason of this order. No additional compensation shall be paid to designated members of the   by reason of this order.

 . 5. Transition. The   may carry forward any uncompleted business, and succeed to any records and property, of   provided for in Executive Order No.  , as amended and supplemented.

 . 6. Prior orders. The Executive orders listed as follows are hereby superseded:

Executive Order No.  

Executive Order No. 7921 of  

Executive Order No.   of  

Executive Order No. 9741 of  

Executive Order No. 9890 of  

Executive Order No.  

Executive Order No.  

Executive Order No.  

Executive Order No.   of  

Executive Order No. 11031 of  
