By virtue of the authority vested in the President by section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a), and in view of the continued existence of the national emergency declared by Proclamation No. 2914 of  , and the importance of strengthening the balance of payments position of   during this national emergency, it is hereby ordered:

1. (a) Any person subject to the jurisdiction of   who, alone or together with one or more affiliated persons, owns or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting securities, capital or earnings of a foreign business venture is prohibited on or after the effective date of this  , except as expressly authorized by the Secretary of  , from engaging in any transaction involving a direct or indirect transfer of capital to or within any foreign country or to any national thereof outside  .

(b) The Secretary of   is authorized to acquire, as he determines to be necessary or appropriate to strengthen the balance of payments position of  , that any person subject to the jurisdiction of   who, alone or together with one or more affiliated persons, owns or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting securities, capital or earnings of one or more foreign business ventures shall cause to he repatriated to   such part as the Secretary of   may specify of (1) the earnings of such foreign business ventures which are attributable to such person's investments therein and (2) bank deposits and other short term financial assets which are held in foreign countries by or for the account of such person. Any person subject to the jurisdiction of   is required on or after the effective date of this   to comply with any such requirement of the Secretary of  .

(c) The Secretary of   shall exempt from the provisions of this section 1, to the extent delineated by   of   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), banks or financial institutions certified by the   as being subject to  , or to any program instituted by the   under section 2 of this Order.

2. The   is authorized in the event that it determines such action to be necessary or desirable to strengthen the balance of payments position of  :

(a) to investigate, regulate or prohibit any transaction by any bank or other financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of   involving a direct or indirect transfer of capital to or within any foreign country or to any national thereof outside  ; and

(b) to require that any bank or financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of   shall cause to be repatriated to the,   such part as the   may specify of the bank deposits and other short term financial assets which are held in foreign countries by or for the account of such bank or financial institution. Any bank or financial institution subject to the jurisdiction of   shall comply with any such requirement of   after its effective date.

3. The Secretary of   and the   are respectively authorized, under authority delegated to each of them under this   or otherwise available to them, to carry out the provisions of this  , and to prescribe such definitions for any terms used herein, to issue such rules and regulations, orders, rulings, licenses and instructions, and to take such other actions, as each of them determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this   and their respective responsibilities hereunder. The Secretary of   and the   may each redelegate to any agency, instrumentality or official of   any authority under this  , and may, in administering this  , utilize the services of any other agencies,  , which are available and appropriate.

4. The Secretary of   shall advise the Secretary of   and the   with respect to matters under this   involving foreign policy. The Secretary of   and the   shall consult as necessary and appropriate with each other and with the Secretary of the  .

5. The delegations of authority in this   shall not affect the authority of any agency or official pursuant to any other delegation of presidential authority, presently in effect or hereafter made, under section 5 (b) of the act of  , as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a).
