Section 1.  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of representatives of the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  ,  , the Chairman of  , and the Chairman of  ; such other   officials or employees as the President may designate; and such private citizens especially qualified to represent consumer interests as the President may appoint. Each Federal agency head named herein shall designate one person, who shall be an assistant secretary or official of comparable rank, to represent him on the  .

(c) The Chairman of the   shall be designated by the President from among the   members to serve for such term as the President may determine. The Chairman shall direct and supervise any staff employed by or detailed to the  .

(d) The Chairman shall invite the heads of Federal agencies not represented on the   to designate representatives (who shall be assistant secretaries or officials of comparable rank) to participate as ad hoc members of the   when matters affecting the responsibilities of their respective agencies are to be considered by the  .

 . 2. Establishment of  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall consist of the private citizens appointed by the President as members of the  . The President shall designate the Chairman of the   from among its members.

(b) The Chairman of the   shall be responsible for assuring that the meetings and other activities of the   are carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions of Executive Order 11007 of  , and for prescribing such additional regulations with respect to the affairs of the   as may be necessary.

 . 3. Functions of the Committee, the   members, and the  . (a) The   shall from time to time consider (1) the   policies and programs of primary importance to consumers or the unmet consumer needs which can appropriately be met through   action, either under existing laws or new legislation; (2) the aspects of Federal policies, programs, and operations concerning which the views of consumers should be available to Federal officials;

(3) the means by which necessary liaison may be established between   and consumer organizations to enable the   to perform its functions under subsection (c), below; and

(4) the manner in which consumer views can be communicated to appropriate   departments and agencies.

(b) The Federal agency heads enumerated in section 1(b), collectively or individually, as appropriate, (1) shall seek the advice of the Committee or the   on matters affecting consumers, and similarly receive recommendations made on the initiative of the Committee or the  ; (2) shall be responsible for considering recommendations made by  ; and (3) shall take such action as is deemed to be in the general public interest, including making recommendations to the President on matters requiring action by him or by the  .

(c) The   shall advise the Government on issues of broad economic policy of immediate concern to consumers, on governmental programs to meet consumer needs or to protect consumer interests, and on needed improvements in the flow of consumer research material to the public. The   may arrange through the Chairman of the   for fact-finding studies to enable the   to carry out its responsibilities. In carrying out its functions the   shall, insofar as practicable, provide interested organizations and individuals an opportunity to present their views and recommendations to the   for its consideration.

 . 4. Federal agencies. (a) Upon request of the Chairman of the  , the heads of Federal agencies shall so far as practicable provide the   with information and reports relating to matters within the cognizance of the  .

(b) Each Federal agency represented on the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(c)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the Committee on a reimbursable basis.

 . 5. Compensation and per diem. For   any person appointed from private life as a member of the   is engaged in meetings, or is with the approval of the Chairman of the   engaged in other work in pursuance of this order, such person shall receive compensation at a rate determined by the Chairman of the   and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.
