SECTION 1. Establishment of the Commission. (a) There is hereby established a   Commission on   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of:

Dr.  , Chairman

Congressman  

Archbishop Terence J. Cooke

Ambassador  

Senator  .  

Judge  

 

Senator  

 , Jr.

Congressman  .  ,

The President from time to time may appoint additional members to the  , and may designate additional officers thereof.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. The   shall investigate and make recommendations with respect to:

(a) The causes and prevention of lawless acts of violence in our society, including assassination, murder and assault;

(b) The causes and prevention of disrespect for law and order, of disrespect for public officials, and of violent disruptions of public order by individuals and groups; and

(c) Such other matters as the President may place before the  .

 . 3. Compensation of Members of the  . (a) Members of the   who are otherwise compensated by   for full-time service shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for their full-time service; but they shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.

(b) Other Members of the   shall receive compensation in accordance with law when engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the  . In addition they shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.  , for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 4. Staff of the  . (a) The   shall have an Executive Director, appointed by the President, who shall receive such compensation as may be directed by the President in accordance with law.

(b) The   is authorized to appoint such additional personnel as it deems necessary, to fix their compensation in accordance with law, and to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C.  .

 . 5. Cooperation by Executive Departments and Agencies: (a) The  , acting through its Chairman, is authorized to request from any executive department or agency any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each department or agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish information and assistance to the  .

(b)   shall provide administrative services for the  .

 . 6. Report and Termination. The   shall present its report and recommendations as soon as practicable, but not   from the date of this Order: The   shall terminate   following the submission of its final report or   from the date of this  , whichever is earlier.
