SECTION 1. President's  . There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of the Vice President, who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Consultant to the President for  . When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies not represented on the   are to be considered by the  , the Chairman shall invite the heads of such agencies to participate in the business of the  .

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall develop policies designed to:

(1) Enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, professional associations, amateur and professional sport groups, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and others in efforts to promote and improve physical fitness and sports participation programs for all  ;

(2) Stimulate, improve, and strengthen coordination of Federal services and programs relating to physical fitness and sports participation;

(3) Encourage State and local governments in efforts to enhance physical fitness and sports participation;

(4) Strengthen the physical fitness of   children, youth, and adults by systematically encouraging the development of community-centered and other physical fitness and sports participation programs;

(5) Improve school health and physical education programs for all pupils, including the handicapped and the physically underdeveloped, by assisting educational agencies in developing quality programs, encouraging innovation, improving teacher preparation, and strengthening   and local leadership;

(6) Develop cooperative programs with medical, dental, and other similar professional societies to encourage and implement sound physical fitness practices; and

(7) Stimulate and encourage research in the areas of physical fitness and sports performance.

 . 3.  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of not more than fifteen members appointed by the President. The President shall designate the Chairman of the   from among its members, and the   shall meet on the call of the Chairman.

(b) The members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their service on the  , but they shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 4. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall advise and assist the   in evaluating progress made in carrying out the provisions of this order and shall recommend to the  , as necessary, steps to accelerate progress.

(b) The   shall further advise the   on matters pertaining to ways and means of enhancing opportunities for participation in physical fitness and sports activities and on  , local, and private action to extend and improve physical activity programs and services.

 . 5. Federal agencies. (a) The   and the   are authorized to request from any   or agency any information deemed necessary to carry out their functions under this order and to utilize the services and facilities of such departments and agencies to the maximum extent possible; and each department and agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information, services, and facilities to the   and the  .

(b) Each department or agency the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691), or as otherwise permitted by law. Expenses of the   shall be met from funds available to the  .

(c)  , and   shall furnish necessary administrative services for the  .

 . 6. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any   or agency or any officer thereof.

 . 7. Continuity. The   established by this order shall be deemed to be a continuation of the President's  .

 . 8. Seal. Executive Order  , prescribing a seal for the President's  , as amended by Executive Order  , is further amended by adding the words "and Sports" after the word "Fitness" wherever it appears in said order.

 . 9. Revocation. Executive   of  , is hereby revoked.
