119 HRES 1070 IH: Congratulating the Olympians and Paralympians of Michigan who competed in the 2026 Olympics and Paralympics in Italy.
U.S. House of Representatives
2026-02-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1070
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 23, 2026
Mrs. Dingell
(for herself,
Mr. Walberg
,
Mr. Bergman
,
Mr. Moolenaar
,
Ms. Stevens
,
Mr. Barrett
,
Ms. Scholten
,
Mr. Huizenga
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Ms. Tlaib
,
Mr. James
,
Mr. Thanedar
, and
Ms. McDonald Rivet
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Olympians and Paralympians of Michigan who competed in the 2026 Olympics and Paralympics in Italy.
Whereas the United States participants of the 2026 Milano Cortina Olympics and Paralympics honored the Nation through their dedication and patriotism;
Whereas the Olympic symbol expresses the activity of the Olympic Movement and represents the union of the five continents and the meeting of athletes from throughout the world at the Olympic and Paralympic Games;
Whereas the goal of Olympism is to place sport at the service of the harmonious development of humankind, with a view to promoting a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity;
Whereas 32 States represented Team USA;
Whereas the 2026 roster included 115 women and 117 men;
Whereas of the collective of 232 United States athletes who competed in Milano Cortina, 88 athletes, nearly 40 percent, competed collegiately at 54 different schools;
Whereas the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee (USOPC) recognized Michiganders that competed in Milano Cortina;
Whereas Kaila Kuhn competed in freestyle skiing;
Whereas Nick Baumgartner competed in snowboarding;
Whereas Winter Vinecki competed in freestyle skiing;
Whereas Dylan Larkin competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Megan Keller competed in women’s ice hockey;
Whereas Emilea Zingas competed in figure skating;
Whereas Zach Werenski competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Kyle Connor competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Connor Hellebuyck competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Evan Bates competed in figure skating;
Whereas Jack Hughes competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Kirsten Simms competed in women’s ice hockey;
Whereas Quinn Hughes competed in men’s ice hockey;
Whereas Jake Vedder competed in snowboarding; and
Whereas Christina Carreira competed in figure skating: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the Michigan Olympians and Paralympians of the 2026 Milano Cortina Olympics and Paralympics;
(2)
honors the heroic efforts of all the Michigan Olympians and Paralympians and their accomplishments at the 2026 Milano Cortina Olympics and Paralympics;
(3)
recognizes the achievements of the players, coaches, and support staff who are instrumental in a United States victory; and
(4)
honors the unifying nature of the Olympic and Paralympic Games and their role in promoting a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity.
