119 HRES 1019 IH: Recognizing the roles and the contributions of America’s Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) and their critical role in providing quality health care for the public and our Nation’s Armed Forces, for more than 150 years and through multiple public health emergencies and beyond.
U.S. House of Representatives
2026-01-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1019
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 23, 2026
Ms. Schakowsky
(for herself,
Mr. Joyce of Ohio
,
Mr. Tonko
, and
Ms. Bonamici
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the roles and the contributions of America’s Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) and their critical role in providing quality health care for the public and our Nation’s Armed Forces, for more than 150 years and through multiple public health emergencies and beyond.
Whereas Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) are essential to America’s health care system, providing high-quality, cost-effective anesthesia and pain management care for more than 150 years as the first anesthesia providers;
Whereas CRNAs safely administer more than 58,500,000 anesthetics to patients each year;
Whereas CRNAs are the primary providers of anesthesia care in rural America, enabling health care facilities in these medically underserved areas to offer obstetrical, surgical, trauma stabilization, and pain management services for millions of underserved and at-risk people;
Whereas CRNAs practice in every setting in which anesthesia is delivered, including traditional hospital surgical suites and obstetrical delivery rooms, the offices of dentists, podiatrists, ophthalmologists, and plastic surgeons, ambulatory surgical centers, and United States military, public health services, and Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities; and
Whereas the purpose of National CRNA Week, held January 18, 2026, through January 24, 2026, is to raise public awareness of and celebrate the Nation’s 69,000 Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists and student registered nurse anesthetists: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives thanks and promotes the profession of Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) and their incredible, selfless, and dedicated service for over 150 years, by encouraging patients, hospital administrators, health care professionals, policymakers, and others to utilize CRNAs to their full potential and to recognize the work of CRNAs by participating in National CRNA Week.
