119 HRES 808 IH: Congratulating the Las Vegas Aces on winning the 2025 Women’s National Basketball Association Finals.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-10-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 808
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 14, 2025
Ms. Titus
(for herself,
Mr. Horsford
,
Ms. Lee of Nevada
, and
Mr. Amodei of Nevada
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Las Vegas Aces on winning the 2025 Women’s National Basketball Association Finals.
Whereas, on Friday, October 10, 2025, the Las Vegas Aces defeated the Phoenix Mercury in Game 4 of the Women’s National Basketball Association (WNBA) Finals, winning the WNBA Finals 4 games to 0;
Whereas the Aces secured their third championship win in 4 seasons;
Whereas the Aces showed great resolve, overcoming tremendous adversity and multiple injuries on their way to their third title;
Whereas, on the way to sweeping the 2025 WNBA Finals, the Aces defeated—
(1)
the Seattle Storm in the first round;
(2)
the Indiana Fever in the Semifinals; and
(3)
the Phoenix Mercury in the WNBA Finals;
Whereas every member of the 2025 Aces contributed to this championship season, including Jackie Young, Kierstan Bell, NaLyssa Smith, Dana Evans, Chelsea Gray, Aaliyah Nye, Megan Gustafson, A’ja Wilson, Jewell Loyd, Cheyenne Parker-Tyus, and Kiah Stokes;
Whereas owners Mark and Carol Davis, President Nikki Fargas, and Head Coach Becky Hammon have created a championship organization comprised of accomplished coaches and world-class athletes;
Whereas the Aces constructed the first practice facility specifically built for a WNBA team in league history, a state-of-the-art campus in Henderson, Nevada, in District One;
Whereas the Aces set a record 16-game winning streak to end the regular season, finishing 30–14 overall, and clinching the second seed in the playoffs;
Whereas the Aces went 17–5 at home in the regular season and 6–1 at home in the postseason, drawing large crowds through the regular season and playoffs;
Whereas, on June 25, 2025, A’ja Wilson became the fastest player in league history to reach 5,000 career points, reaching the milestone in an Aces win over the Connecticut Sun;
Whereas Aces players A’ja Wilson and Jackie Young represented the Aces at the 2025 WNBA All-Star Game in Indianapolis;
Whereas A’ja Wilson earned the 2025 WNBA Most Valuable Player Award, becoming the first player in league history to secure the honor 4 times;
Whereas Aces players Chelsea Gray, A’ja Wilson, and Jackie Young represented the team at the 2024 Paris Olympic Games; and
Whereas the Las Vegas Aces firmly established Las Vegas as the Sports Capital of the World: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives congratulates and honors the Las Vegas Aces on their 2025 Women’s National Basketball Association Finals victory.
