1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Don't Cut FAA Workers Act of 2025
.
2.
Limitation on mass layoffs in event of major aviation accident
(a)
In general
Chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
40133.
Limitation on mass layoffs in event of major aviation accident.
(a)
Limitation on mass layoffs
Except as provided in subparagraph (b), the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may not carry out, or otherwise facilitate, a mass layoff during the 1-year period following a major aviation accident in air transportation.
(b)
Congressional approval for mass layoff
(1)
Notification
Before carrying out a mass layoff described in subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit to Congress notification of such a layoff that includes the number and type of employees proposed to be laid off.
(2)
Congressional approval
In any case in which, not later than 60 days after receipt of a notification under paragraph (1), Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the proposed mass layoff for which such notification was submitted, the Administrator may carry out such mass layoff.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Mass layoff
The term ГўВҖВҳmass layoffГўВҖВҷ means a reduction in force or other termination of employment that results in a personnel loss during any 90-day periodГўВҖВ”
(A)
of 10 or more employees of the Federal Aviation Administration at a single site of employment, as calculated under paragraph (2); or
(B)
of 250 or more employees of the Administration, irrespective of employment site.
(2)
Calculation
The number of employees at a single site of employment who suffer an employment loss shall be calculated in a manner that includesГўВҖВ”
(A)
all such employees who work at the physical location of the site; and
(B)
all such employees who work remotely andГўВҖВ”
(i)
are assigned to or otherwise associated with the site;
(ii)
receive assignments or training from the site;
(iii)
report to a manager associated with the site; or
(iv)
whose job loss was a foreseeable consequence of a reduction in force or other termination of employment at the site.
(3)
Major aviation accident
The term ГўВҖВңmajor aviation accidentГўВҖВқ means an aircraft accident in which a fatal aviation injury occurs.
(4)
Aircraft accident
The term
aircraft accident
means an occurrence associated with the operation of a civil aircraft that takes place between the time any individual boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and the time at which the last individual disembarks such aircraft in which any individual suffers death or serious injury, or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage.
(5)
Fatal aviation injury
The term
fatal aviation injury
means any injury due to an aircraft accident that results in the death of an individual as a result of such accident within 30 days of such accident.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
40133. Limitation on reduction in force.
.
