1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Campus Housing Affordability Ac
t
.
2.
Removal of prohibition on housing assistance to students
Section 327(a) of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (
Public Law 109–115
; 119 Stat. 2506) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (1); and
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as (1) through (5), respectively.
3.
Waiver of requirements for certain students
Section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)
), is amended by adding at the end the following:
(23)
Waiver of requirements for certain students
(A)
In general
The Secretary may waive any requirement under this subsection to provide tenant-based assistance under this subsection to any eligible student.
(B)
Treatment of assistance
Assistance received by an individuals through the waiver described in subparagraph (A) may not be considered a part of the income of such individual for the purposes of—
(i)
determining eligibility for student financial assistance provided by the Federal government or offered by an institution of higher education that receives Federal assistance;
(ii)
calculating income earned from work under a cooperative education program offered by an institution of higher education that receives Federal assistance;
(iii)
determining eligibility for any living allowance provided under a program established under the National and Community Service Act of 1990; or
(iv)
determining the amount of any child support the individual may owe.
(C)
Eligible student defined
In this paragraph, the term
eligible student
means a person who—
(i)
is a student enrolled in an institution of higher education, as such term is defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
) and including the institutions described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 102(a)(1) of such Act (
20 U.S.C. 1002(a)(1)
);
(ii)
lives in student housing facility maintained by such institution; and
(iii)
is eligible to receive tenant-based assistance under this subsection.
.
