1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Urban and Rural Diabetes Initiative Act
.
2.
Grants regarding treatment of diabetes in urban and rural communities
Subpart I of part D of title III of the
Public Health Service Act
(
42 U.S.C. 254b et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
330Q.
Grants regarding treatment of diabetes in urban and rural communities
(a)
In general
The Secretary may make grants to eligible providers for the purpose of providing services related to the treatment of diabetes (and co-morbid conditions) in medically underserved communities.
(b)
Application for grant
An eligible provider seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, in such manner, and containing such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines necessary, including as specified in subsection (c).
(c)
Conditions
As a condition on receiving a grant under this section, an eligible provider shall agree—
(1)
to provide, as part of the services referred to in subsection (a), routine care for diabetic patients, public education on diabetes prevention and control, eye care, foot care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes;
(2)
to provide such services in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services are provided; and
(3)
to conduct outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the program.
(d)
Equitable geographic distribution
In making grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure an equitable geographic distribution of funds and a balance in addressing the needs of urban and rural communities.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible provider
The term
eligible provider
means a public or nonprofit private health care provider. Such term includes a community-based organization, a health care organization, a rural health clinic (as defined in section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act), a Federally qualified health center (as defined in such section 1861(aa)), and a State, local, or Tribal health department.
(2)
Medically underserved community
The term
medically underserved community
has the meaning given such term in section 799B.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2031.
.
