1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
School Bus Stop-Arm Safety Camera Act
.
2.
Schoolbus stop-arm safety cameras study and grant program
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, in coordination with the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, shall conduct a study to examine the benefits of requiring schoolbuses in the United States to be equipped with stop-arm safety cameras.
(2)
Recommendations
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall publish on a publicly available website of each respective Administrator—
(A)
the findings of the study conducted under paragraph (1); and
(B)
with respect to the use of stop-arm safety cameras, recommendations on best practices regarding—
(i)
data management and privacy safeguards;
(ii)
data sharing with law enforcement for fair adjudication of alleged traffic violations; and
(iii)
fee and revenue sharing structures to ensure programs are financially self-sustaining and advance student safety.
(b)
Grant program
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a grant program to increase the use of stop-arm safety camera technology on schoolbuses.
(2)
Eligible recipients
The Secretary may award a grant under the program established under paragraph (1) to a State educational agency.
(3)
Applications
(A)
In general
To be eligible for a grant under the program established under paragraph (1), an entity described in paragraph (2) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(B)
Notification
Before the date on which the Secretary begins to accept applications, the Secretary shall notify State educational agencies of the grant availability.
(4)
Use of funds
Funds awarded under the program established under paragraph (1) may be used to—
(A)
purchase schoolbuses that are equipped with stop-arm safety camera technology;
(B)
equip such technology on schoolbuses that are already owned; and
(C)
install, maintain, and repair such technology.
(5)
Definition of State educational agency
In this subsection, the term
State educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
