1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keep Air Travel Safe Act
.
2.
Funding for the Transportation Security Administration in the event of a lapse in appropriation
(a)
In general
During any period in which there is a lapse in appropriations for the Transportation Security Administration, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall continue, using amounts described in subsection (g), all programs, projects, or activities (including the costs of direct loans and loan guarantees) of the Administration that were conducted with amounts made available for any account of the Administration in the preceding fiscal year—
(1)
in the corresponding appropriation Act for such preceding fiscal year; or
(2)
if the corresponding appropriation bill for such preceding fiscal year did not become law, then in a joint resolution making continuing appropriations for such preceding fiscal year.
(b)
Rate for operations
Appropriations and funds made available, and authority granted, to continue a program, project, or activity for any fiscal year pursuant to this section shall be at a rate for operations not greater than—
(1)
the rate for operations provided for in the regular appropriation Act providing for such program, project, or activity for the preceding fiscal year; or
(2)
in the absence of such an Act, the rate for operations provided for such program, project, or activity pursuant to a joint resolution making continuing appropriations for such preceding fiscal year.
(c)
Availability
Appropriations and funds made available, and authority granted, for any fiscal year pursuant to this section for a program, project, or activity shall be available for the period beginning with the first day of a lapse in appropriations and ending with the earlier of—
(1)
the date on which—
(A)
the applicable regular appropriation bill for such fiscal year becomes law (whether or not such law provides for such program, project, or activity); or
(B)
a joint resolution making continuing appropriations becomes law; or
(2)
the date that is 180 days after the first day of a lapse in appropriations.
(d)
Terms and conditions
An appropriation or funds made available, or authority granted, for a program, project, or activity for any fiscal year pursuant to this section shall be subject to the terms and conditions imposed with respect to the appropriation made or funds made available for the preceding fiscal year, or authority granted for such program, project, or activity under applicable law on the first day of the applicable lapse in appropriations.
(e)
End of fiscal year
If this section is in effect at the end of a fiscal year, funding levels shall continue as provided in this section for the next fiscal year.
(f)
Amounts described
The amounts described in this subsection are the unobligated balances, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, of amounts made available under section 90003 of
Public Law 119–21
(commonly referred to as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act
; 139 Stat. 358).
