1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cultivating Organic Matter through the Promotion Of Sustainable Techniques Act
or the
COMPOST Act
.
2.
Composting as conservation practice
(a)
Conservation standards and requirements
Section 1241(j) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3841(j)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
(2)
Composting as conservation practice and activity
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall by regulation provide that composting is a conservation practice and a conservation activity for the purposes of this title.
(B)
Composting defined
(i)
In general
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term
composting
means—
(I)
an activity (including an activity that does not require the use of a composting facility) to produce compost from organic waste that is—
(aa)
generated on a farm; or
(bb)
brought to a farm from a nearby community and used to produce compost on that farm; and
(II)
the use and active management of compost on a farm, in accordance with any applicable Federal, State, or local law, to improve water retention and soil health.
(ii)
Determination of nearby communities
The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall issue regulations for determining whether a community is nearby for purposes of clause (i)(I), which shall ensure that bringing organic waste from the community to the farm to produce compost results in a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
.
(b)
Conservation stewardship program
Section 1240I(2)(B)(i) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3839aa–21(2)(B)(i)
) is amended by inserting
and composting practices
after
agriculture drainage management systems
.
(c)
Environmental quality incentives program
Section 1240A(6)(A)(ii) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3839aa–1(6)(A)(ii)
) is amended by inserting
, including composting practices
before the semicolon at the end.
(d)
Delivery of technical assistance
Section 1242(h) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (
16 U.S.C. 3842(h)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Development of composting practice standard
In addition to conducting a review under this subsection of any composting facility practice standard established before the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall establish a composting practice standard under the process developed under paragraph (3).
.
