1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stopping a Rogue President on Trade Act
.
2.
Termination of certain executive orders imposing tariffs
Duties imposed by the following Executive orders, and any successor or substantially similar Executive orders, shall have no force or effect on and after the date of the enactment of this Act:
(1)
Executive Order 14257 (90 Fed. Reg. 15041).
(2)
Executive Order 14193 (90 Fed. Reg. 9113).
(3)
Executive Order 14194 (90 Fed. Reg. 9117).
3.
Approval required for imposition of duties, quotas, or tariff rate quotas or suspension, withdrawal, or prevention of the application of trade agreement concessions
(a)
Congressional approval required
Except as provided by subsection (b), the President may not impose or increase a duty, quota, or tariff-rate quota with respect to an article imported into the United States or suspend, withdraw, or prevent the application of trade agreement concessions with respect to an article unless there is enacted into law a joint resolution of approval with respect to the duty, quota, tariff-rate quota, or concession.
(b)
Exclusions
The requirement under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to—
(1)
antidumping and countervailing duties imposed under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.
);
(2)
duties, quotas, and tariff-rate quotas imposed under chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.
);
(3)
duties imposed consistent with a ruling authorizing the suspension of benefits or concessions on the part of the United States issued by—
(A)
a dispute settlement panel constituted under a bilateral or plurilateral free trade agreement for which explicit congressional approval pursuant to the requirements of section 151 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2191
) has been enacted before the date of the enactment of this Act, before which the United States is a party; or
(B)
a dispute settlement panel described in section 123 of the Uruguay Rounds Agreement Act (
19 U.S.C. 3533
) before which the United States is a party.
4.
Joint resolution procedures
(a)
Joint resolution of approval defined
For purposes of this Act, the term
joint resolution of approval
means only a joint resolution, the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows:
That Congress approves ___ imposed with respect to ___.
, with the first blank space being filled with a description of the proposed action with respect to the article and the second blank space being filled with a description of the article.
(b)
Introduction of joint resolution of approval
A joint resolution of approval may be introduced in either House of Congress by any Member.
(c)
Expedited procedures
The provisions of subsections (b) through (f) of section 152 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2192
) apply to a joint resolution of approval described in subsection (a) to the same extent that such subsections apply to joint resolutions under such section 152.
(d)
Rules of the Senate and the House of Representatives
This section is enacted by Congress—
(1)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of approval, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(2)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
