1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Special Events Program and Support Act
.
2.
DHS special events program
(a)
In general
Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
890E.
Special events program
(a)
In general
There is authorized within the Department a program to assess the threat, vulnerability, and consequences of terrorism or other security threats, as appropriate, at certain special events in accordance with subsection (b).
(b)
Requirements
The program authorized under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
apply to special events that are pre-planned and not designated as National Special Security Events by the Secretary;
(2)
include a standard process for Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial officials to voluntarily submit to the Secretary requests for a special event rating that could result in direct support for security and situational awareness for such special event;
(3)
maintain a risk-based methodology to assess ratings requests, including requests submitted pursuant to paragraph (2), that considers the anticipated attendance by United States officials or foreign dignitaries, the size and venue of the special event, credible threats of terrorism or other security threats, and other homeland security information, as appropriate; and
(4)
include a process for expedited consideration and, where appropriate, a process for the reassessment, of a special event rating.
(c)
Support to special events
For purposes of protecting a special event described in subsection (b), the Secretary may provide security and situational awareness support to a Federal, State, local, Tribal, or territorial official at the request of an appropriate Federal, State, local, Tribal, or territorial official.
(d)
Annual reports
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the program authorized under subsection (a). Each such report shall include information relating to the following:
(1)
The total number of special events submitted to such program in the prior year, including the number of special events at each rating level.
(2)
The total number of events in the prior year for which the Secretary designated a Federal coordinator or coordinated security and situational awareness support, including a summary of Federal support provided.
(3)
The total number of requests for special event rating reassessment under subsection (b)(4), including the following:
(A)
The identification of the requesting entity.
(B)
The special event name, date, and location.
(C)
The initial and final rating determination.
(D)
The justification for such final rating determination.
(e)
Periodic assessments
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section and every five years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate an assessment of the program authorized under subsection (a).
(f)
Definition
In this section, the term
homeland security information
has the meaning given such term in section 892.
.
(b)
Mass gathering research
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Undersecretary for Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security and the official responsible for carrying out section 890E of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a), shall, to the extent practicable, carry out research and development, including operational testing, of technologies and techniques for enhancing the Department’s security and situational awareness support to Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial officials relating to mass gatherings consistent with applicable constitutional, privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties protections.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 890D the following new item:
Sec. 890E. Special events program.
.
