1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fine Arts Protection Act of 2025
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Art plays an important role in helping people preserve and understand history.
(2)
The Fine Arts Program of the General Services Administration contains the Fine Arts Collection, one of the oldest and largest public arts collections in the United States.
(3)
The Fine Arts Program of the General Services Administration helps preserve historic works of cultural significance, including works commissioned under New Deal programs.
3.
Review of Fine Arts Program
(a)
Review of Fine Arts Program
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall initiate a review of the Fine Arts Program of the General Services Administration.
(2)
Requirements
In conducting the review required under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall carry out the following:
(A)
Survey each piece of art contained in the Fine Arts Collection of the General Services Administration.
(B)
Provide an estimate for the economic value of the Fine Arts Collection, including each work commissioned under a New Deal program.
(C)
Review the stewardship by the General Services Administration of the Fine Arts Program.
(D)
Explore whether the staffing and funding levels of the Fine Arts Program for the fiscal year in which the review is conducted are sufficient to manage and preserve the Fine Arts Collection.
(E)
Examine how the management by the General Services Administration of the Fine Arts Collection compares to other entities that preserve and manage art collections of similar size.
(F)
Examine whether the General Services Administration, given plans to continue reducing the staff and budget of the General Services Administration, has or should have plans to find a new home for the Fine Arts Collection.
(b)
Report to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report regarding the review conducted under subsection (a).
(2)
Contents of report
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
the findings of the review conducted under subsection (a); and
(B)
any recommendations for improvements in the management of the Fine Arts Collection, including whether the Fine Arts Program of the General Services Administration should continue managing the Fine Arts Collection.
