1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
End PG&E Lobbying Act
.
2.
Consideration of standard for two-year lobbying ban
(a)
In general
Section 111(d) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2621(d)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(22)
Two-year lobbying ban for former member of State regulatory authority
A person who is a former member of a State regulatory authority may not, during the period of 2 years beginning on the date on which such membership terminated—
(A)
appear, lobby, or practice before such State regulatory authority to—
(i)
influence a decision of, or action by, such State regulatory authority; or
(ii)
gain information from such State regulatory authority that is not generally available to the public; or
(B)
render services for compensation in relation to any case, proceeding, application, or other matter before such State regulatory authority.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Obligations to consider and determine
Section 112 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2622
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
(9)
(A)
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which the State has ratemaking authority) shall commence consideration under section 111, or set a hearing date for consideration, with respect to the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d).
(B)
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which the State has ratemaking authority) shall complete the consideration and make the determination under section 111 with respect to the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d).
;
(B)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
by striking
subsection (b)(2)
and inserting
subsection (b)
; and
(ii)
by inserting
In the case of the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d), the reference contained in this subsection to the date of enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of that paragraph (22).
after
paragraph (21).
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(i)
Other prior state actions
Subsections (b) and (c) shall not apply to the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d) in the case of any electric utility in a State if, before the date of enactment of this subsection—
(1)
the State has implemented for the electric utility the standard (or a comparable standard);
(2)
the State regulatory authority for the State has conducted a proceeding to consider implementation of the standard (or a comparable standard) for the electric utility; or
(3)
the State legislature has voted on the implementation of the standard (or a comparable standard) for the electric utility during the 3-year period ending on that date of enactment.
.
(2)
Prior and pending proceedings
Section 124 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2634
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
In the case of the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d), the reference contained in this section to the date of enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of that paragraph (22).
.
