1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pedestrian Hazard, Awareness, and Safety Expansion Act of 2025
or the
PHASE Act of 2025
.
2.
NIST innovative technologies to improve and enhance traffic control devices
The Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall transmit to the Secretary of Transportation potential solutions using innovative technologies to improve and enhance traffic control devices to better equip vehicle operators, including bicycles and protect pedestrians and vulnerable road users. The Director shall provide supporting evidence to ensure such potential solutions do not overwhelm, overstimulate, or otherwise distract vehicle operators, including bicyclists or pedestrians. Such potential solutions shall comply with all applicable Federal regulations.
3.
Physical alternatives to protect pedestrians and vulnerable road users
(a)
Study
The Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a study on developing physical alternatives to better protect pedestrians and vulnerable road users from traffic incidents that—
(1)
analyzes urban areas, as determined by the Bureau of the Census, in which pedestrian fatalities have increased in the data available as of the date of enactment of this Act to study where crashes involving pedestrians occur most frequently;
(2)
examine physical alternatives to reduce vehicle crashes with vulnerable road users and fatalities, including pedestrians; and
(3)
studies intelligent speed assistance and blind spot detection safety systems’ impact on the safety of vulnerable road users including the ability of blind spot detection to detect all road users in a timely manner.
(b)
Briefing to Congress
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representative on the results of the study.
(c)
Grant program
The Secretary shall establish a grant program to provide grants to cities, Indian Tribes, and municipalities to implement infrastructure that complies with all applicable Federal regulations and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.
) and improves pedestrian safety, including—
(1)
innovative technology for crosswalks;
(2)
additional pedestrian facilities both on and off the road;
(3)
expanded buffer zones;
(4)
pedestrian crossings;
(5)
increased pedestrian accommodation on bridges;
(6)
upgraded highway traffic signals;
(7)
accessible pedestrian signals;
(8)
accessible sidewalks;
(9)
increased signage;
(10)
increased lighting at crossings;
(11)
adaptive or intelligent roadway and pedestrian lighting;
(12)
accessible curb ramps; and
(13)
marked crosswalks and grade-separated crossings.
(d)
Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (c), an applicant shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each fiscal year to carry out the grant program described under subsection (c).
