1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Modern Approaches in Recovery Technology for Traumatic Brain Injury Act
or the
SMART for TBI Act
.
2.
Strategy for treating traumatic brain injuries through digital health technologies
Section 735 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (
Public Law 117–263
;
10 U.S.C. 1071
note) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
(e)
Digital health technologies
(1)
Working group
As part of the Initiative, the Secretary shall establish a working group to develop a strategy for treating traumatic brain injuries through digital health technologies.
(2)
Membership
The working group shall be composed of members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department of Defense, and individuals not employed by the Federal Government, who have expertise in traumatic brain injury clinical care, biomedical informatics, engineering, or implementation science.
(3)
Elements
The strategy developed under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Identification of capability gaps in the treatment of traumatic brain injuries that could be addressed through artificial intelligence and digital health technologies.
(B)
An analysis of existing research, development, and acquisition efforts leveraging artificial intelligence-based capabilities and digital health technologies, including any applicable commercial off-the-shelf solutions being used by the Secretary to support the treatment of traumatic brain injuries.
(C)
Recommendations with respect to advances required to—
(i)
address gaps identified under subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
significantly improve the treatment of traumatic brain injuries using artificial intelligence and digital health technologies.
(D)
A recommended investment plan to advance technology and knowledge readiness levels to field digital health technologies to treat traumatic brain injuries.
(4)
Briefing
Not later than September 30, 2026, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the strategy developed under paragraph (1).
.
