1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving Hazardous And Declining Environments Act
or the
SHADE Act
.
2.
Tree planting grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall, not later than 180 days after any amounts are appropriated under subsection (f), establish a grant program under which the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to plant qualifying trees in eligible areas.
(b)
Notice of funding opportunity
The Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, publish a notice of funding opportunity for the grant program established under subsection (a).
(c)
Applications
(1)
In general
An eligible entity that seeks to receive a grant under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(2)
Contents
An application submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a 5-year timeline and budget for the planting and maintenance associated with any qualifying trees awarded.
(3)
Community involvement
The Secretary shall require eligible entities to develop a public participation plan to ensure that residents of the area in which a project is to be implemented are involved in decision-making about the project and such public participation plan may include—
(A)
opportunities for local nonprofits to be involved;
(B)
opportunities for public input; and
(C)
demonstrated support from the community.
(d)
Selection
When awarding grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that, as determined by the Secretary, have a housing policy plan that will minimize the displacement of current residents.
(e)
Use of amounts
An eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use amounts provided to cover costs associated with—
(1)
implementing the tree planting project in an eligible area, including—
(A)
planning and designing the planting activity;
(B)
purchasing qualifying trees; and
(C)
preparing the site and conducting planting, including the labor and cost associated with the use of machinery;
(2)
maintaining and monitoring planted trees for a period of up to 5 years to ensure successful establishment of the qualifying trees;
(3)
training activities associated with the project; and
(4)
other relevant costs, as determined by the Secretary.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2036.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a State, Territory, or Tribal agency;
(B)
a local government entity;
(C)
an Indian Tribe; and
(D)
a nonprofit organization that works with a State, Territory, or Tribal agency, a local government entity, or an Indian Tribe.
(2)
Eligible areas
The term
eligible area
means a redlined area or an intra-urban heat island effect area.
(3)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given the term
Indian tribe
in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
).
(4)
Intra-urban heat island effect area
The term
intra-urban heat island effect area
means an area within a city that, as determined by the Secretary in coordination with the Director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the heads of other agencies as the Secretary determines appropriate, has lower tree canopy coverage and higher maximum daytime summer temperatures compared to adjacent or nearby areas within the same city.
(5)
Local governmental entity
The term
local governmental entity
means any municipal government or county government with jurisdiction over local land use decisions.
(6)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means an organization that is described in
section 170(h)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(7)
Qualifying tree
The term qualifying tree means a tree that—
(A)
is a species that is not an invasive species in the eligible area in which such tree is to be planted; and
(B)
is not a species that is, in the eligible area at the time of planting, being attacked by an invasive species, unless the eligible entity has a plan to limit the risk of death of the tree to be planted.
(8)
Redlined area
The term
redlined area
means a census tract graded as
hazardous
or
definitely declining
in maps drawn by the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation that are, as of the date of enactment of this Act, low-income communities.
(9)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
