1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
What Works for Preventing Veteran Suicide Act
.
2.
Establishment of standard practices for a grant or pilot program administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs through the Veterans Health Administration
(a)
Establishment
Section 527 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
(1)
before
The Secretary,
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subsection (b):
(b)
The Secretary shall prescribe regulations that establish standard practices that, unless otherwise prohibited by law, shall apply to a grant program or pilot program relating to suicide prevention or mental health carried out through the Veterans Health Administration. Such practices shall include the following:
(1)
The establishment of clear and measurable objectives.
(2)
The development of a methodology and plan to—
(A)
determine information necessary to evaluate the program;
(B)
identify sources, methods, timing, and frequency for collecting of such information;
(C)
determine how such information will be analyzed to evaluate the program’s implementation and performance and to identify lessons learned; and
(D)
identify criteria or standards for informing decisions about whether the program should be expanded, extended, or made permanent.
(3)
The communication of program objectives, assessment methodology, and evaluation plan with entities determined relevant to the program by the Secretary—
(A)
during the development of the program;
(B)
at least 30 days prior to the beginning of the program; and
(C)
throughout the term of the program.
(4)
At the conclusion of the program, the performance of an evaluation of the program—
(A)
to validate lessons learned; and
(B)
to assess the generalizability of the program.
(5)
The sharing of program results and best practices with entities determined relevant to the program by the Secretary.
.
(b)
Regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall prescribe regulations under section 527(b) of such title, as amended by subsection (a).
(c)
Applicability
The standard practices prescribed in such regulations shall apply to a grant or pilot program without regard to when such program was established.
