1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rural American Vitalization in Extraterrestrial Space Reporting Act of 2025
or the
RAVES Reporting Act of 2025
.
2.
Study and guidance on conversion of rural, abandoned factories into space-related manufacturing facilities
(a)
Study
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, and in consultation with the Office of Space Affairs of the Department of State and the Small Business Development Center of the Small Business Administration, shall conduct a study, and publish guidance, on the conversion of abandoned factories, space centers, and military bases in rural areas into space-related manufacturing facilities and space complexes.
(b)
Elements
The study and guidance required under subsection (a) shall include information relating to the following:
(1)
On average and by State, the cost of conversions of abandoned factories, and space centers, and abandoned military bases in rural areas into space-related manufacturing facilities and space complexes.
(2)
Greatest needs for terrestrial space manufacturing.
(3)
Environmental and sustainability concerns relating to such conversions.
(4)
Impact on local economies of region in which such conversions are carried out.
(5)
Technical skills and relevant education needed for construction workers, engineers, scientists, and other elements of the workforce relating to such conversions, as well as for the operation of such facilities.
(6)
Potential for collaboration with local community colleges relating to such conversions.
(7)
Effects of artificial intelligence on workforce development relating to such conversions.
(8)
The number of factories and military bases in rural areas abandoned as of 2025.
(9)
Potential for development within rural communities relating to such conversions.
(10)
Viable sources of potential funding or incentives for private sector entities for such conversions.
(11)
Potential national security implications relating to such conversions, in particular with regard to United States adversaries and the Space Command.
(12)
An estimate of the time required to complete such conversions.
(13)
Input from private and public entities that have collaborated or currently collaborate with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) regarding space manufacturing.
(14)
An analysis undertaken in consultation with outside experts in the aerospace field on the current state of the aerospace industry in rural areas of the United States, including a description of best practices relating to such conversions.
(c)
Submission to Congress
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress the study and guidance required under subsection (a).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Abandoned
The term
abandoned
means out of use or underutilized for at least five years, with no apparent plans to restart production or repurpose for other uses.
(2)
Factory
The term
factory
means an industrial facility for manufacturing goods or parts.
(3)
Rural area
The term
rural area
, with respect to an abandoned factory, space center, or military base, means such a factory, center, or base, as the case may be, that is located in any area other than—
(A)
a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants; or
(B)
any urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town described in subparagraph (A).
(4)
Space complex
The term
space complex
means a group of buildings designed for the purpose of building spacecraft, instruments, or technologies to study space, or testing or launching such devices.
