1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Build Now Act
.
2.
Central Valley Project Environmental Review Timeline
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a federally issued permit for a CVP enhancement project requires an environmental review, the environmental review shall be completed not later than 1 year after the date on which the permit application is submitted by the permit applicant.
(b)
Failure To meet deadline
If the agency responsible for carrying out an environmental review described in subsection (a) is unable to meet the timeline under that subsection, the head of the agency issuing the applicable permit shall—
(1)
with the approval of the permit applicant, grant an extension for the environmental review; or
(2)
deny the permit.
(c)
Action after denial
(1)
In general
An applicant for a permit that is denied due to a failure to meet the timeline under this section may re-apply for the permit at any time after the denial is issued.
(2)
Lead agency
If an applicant re-applies for a permit under paragraph (1), the head of the agency responsible for carrying out the environmental review required under the previous application shall furnish to the applicant, to the extent permitted by law, any information gathered as part of, or related to, such environmental review to facilitate an expedited environmental review for the new application.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
CVP enhancement project
The term
CVP enhancement project
means a project with a primary purpose of supporting, enhancing, or maintaining the Central Valley Project and related infrastructure, including—
(A)
groundwater recharge projects;
(B)
aquifer storage projects; and
(C)
water source substitution projects.
(2)
Environmental review
The term
environmental review
means fulfilling the requirements applicable to a CVP enhancement project permit under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq.
) and section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1536
).
