1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Maximizing Agency Integration on Letter Theft Act of 2025
or as the
MAIL Theft Act of 2025
.
2.
Improving coordination in Federal investigation of organized postal theft
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Postmaster General, and the head of each relevant agency shall develop a strategy to identify how each such relevant agency can coordinate with other relevant agencies to—
(1)
improve information sharing between the Postmaster General, the Chief Inspector of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security Investigations, the Director of the Secret Service, and the head of each relevant agency on organized postal crime networks;
(2)
assist State and local law enforcement in compiling materials and evidence necessary for prosecution of organized postal crime; and
(3)
increase cooperation and information sharing between each such relevant agency and State and local government agencies.
(b)
Reporting requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Postmaster General, the Chief Postal Inspector, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, and the head of each relevant agency shall submit a joint report to the relevant committees on the strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a).
(c)
Comptroller general report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall publish a report on coordination between the private sector and law enforcement to deter and investigate organized postal crime.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Organized postal crime
The term
organized postal crime
means the coordinated illegal acquisition of postal mail through theft, embezzlement, fraud, or other means that are illegal under Federal or State law for the purpose of selling or distributing such goods in interstate commerce.
(2)
Organized postal crime network
The term
organized postal crime network
means a criminal network that engages in organized postal crime.
(3)
Relevant agency
The term
relevant agency
means any agency (as defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code) determined by the Postmaster General, the Attorney General, the USPIS Chief Investigator, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to have a role in information sharing and investigation of organized postal crime.
(4)
Relevant committees
The term
relevant committees
means the House Committee on the Judiciary, the House Committee on Homeland Security, the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
