1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modernizing and Improving the National Terrorism Advisory System Act of 2026
.
2.
Strategy to modernize the National Terrorism Advisory System
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a strategy to modernize the National Terrorism Advisory System (NTAS) (in this section referred to as the
strategy
).
(b)
Considerations
The strategy shall consider the following:
(1)
Designating a specific office or official within the Department of Homeland Security to oversee the NTAS.
(2)
The criteria, protocols, and standard operating procedures for the issuance and sunset of NTAS bulletins and alerts.
(3)
The public accessibility and use of NTAS bulletins and alerts.
(4)
The effectiveness of the current NTAS in communicating timely and detailed information to the public about potential terrorism threats.
(5)
The impact of NTAS bulletins and alerts on the ability of Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement and emergency responders to prepare for, prevent, respond to, and mitigate against terrorism threats.
(6)
Mechanisms to ensure NTAS bulletins and alerts reach the greatest number of people possible.
(c)
Engagement
In developing the strategy, the Secretary shall engage with individuals, stakeholders, the private sector, and Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement and emergency responders to receive feedback on options to modernize the NTAS, including feedback related to the considerations under subsection (b).
(d)
Comptroller General review
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the implementation of this section.
