1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
January 6th Oral History Project Act
.
2.
Establishment of program at American Folklife Center to collect video and audio recordings of histories of the insurrection attempt of January 6th 2021
(a)
In general
The Director of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress shall establish an oral history program to—
(1)
collect video and audio recordings of personal histories and testimonials of individuals who were present at or affected by the events at the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, including but not limited to Members of Congress, congressional staff, Capitol Police officers, other law enforcement personnel, journalists, and other witnesses;
(2)
create a collection of the recordings obtained (including a catalog and index) which will be available for public use through the National Digital Library of the Library of Congress and such other methods as the Director considers appropriate to the extent feasible subject to available resources; and
(3)
solicit, reproduce, and collect written materials (such as contemporaneous notes, text messages, emails, social media posts, photographs, and other documentation) relevant to the personal histories of individuals who experienced or witnessed the events of January 6, 2021, and to catalog such materials in a manner the Director considers appropriate, consistent with and complementary to the efforts described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(b)
Use of and consultation with other entities
The Director may carry out the activities described in paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (a) through agreements and partnerships entered into with other government and private entities, and may otherwise consult with interested persons (within the limits of available resources) and develop appropriate guidelines and arrangements for soliciting, acquiring, and making available recordings under the program under this Act.
(c)
Timing
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall begin collecting video and audio recordings under subsection (a)(1) and shall prioritize the collection of testimonials from individuals whose accounts may be most at risk of being lost to time or whose perspectives are essential to understanding the full scope of the January 6, 2021, events.
3.
Private support
(a)
Acceptance of donations
The Librarian of Congress may solicit and accept donations of funds and in-kind contributions to carry out the January 6th oral history program under section 2.
(b)
Establishment of separate gift account
There is established in the Treasury (among the accounts of the Library of Congress) a gift account for the January 6th oral history program under section 2.
(c)
Dedication of funds
Notwithstanding any other provision of law—
(1)
any funds donated to the Librarian of Congress to carry out the January 6th oral history program under section 2 shall be deposited entirely into the gift account established under subsection (b);
(2)
the funds contained in such account shall be used solely to carry out the January 6th oral history program under section 2; and
(3)
the Librarian of Congress may not deposit into such account any funds donated to the Librarian which are not donated for the exclusive purpose of carrying out the January 6th oral history program under section 2.
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act—
(1)
$500,000 for fiscal year 2027; and
(2)
such sums as may be necessary for each succeeding fiscal year.
