1.
Establishment of the General George C. Marshall House as an affiliated area
(a)
In general
The General George C. Marshall House, in the Commonwealth of Virginia, is established as an affiliated area of the National Park System.
(b)
Description of affiliated area
The affiliated area shall consist of the area generally depicted as the
General George C. Marshall House Property, Leesburg, Virginia
on the map titled
General George C. Marshall House, Proposed Affiliated Area
, numbered 999/189,974, and dated September 2023.
(c)
Administration
The affiliated area shall be managed in a manner consistent with—
(1)
this Act; and
(2)
any law generally applicable to units of the National Park System.
(d)
Management entity
The George C. Marshall International Center shall be the management entity for the affiliated area.
(e)
Agreements
The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
)—
(1)
may provide technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the management entity for the purpose of providing financial assistance for the marketing, marking, interpretation, and preservation of the affiliated area; and
(2)
shall enter into an agreement with the management entity that delineates the roles and responsibilities for the management of the area consistent with the policies and standards that apply to units of the National Park System.
(f)
Limited role of the secretary
Nothing in this Act authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated area or to assume managerial or financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or management of the affiliated area.
(g)
Private property protection
Nothing in this Act affects the land use rights of private property owners adjacent to the General George C. Marshall House.
(h)
No buffer zones
(1)
In general
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of the General George C. Marshall House.
(2)
Activity or use outside the general george c. marshall house
The fact that an activity or use can be seen, heard, or detected from within the George C. Marshall House shall not preclude, limit, control, regulate, or determine the conduct or management of activities or uses outside of the George C. Marshall House.
