1.
Establishment of system to track, record, and report all instances in which a United States citizen or individual lawfully admitted for permanent resident was, for the purpose of immigration enforcement, detained or removed by the Department of Homeland Security
(a)
System
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish a standardized system to track, record, and report to the appropriate committees of Congress not less frequently than quarterly all instances in which a United States citizen, individual lawfully admitted for permanent resident (LPR), or individual whose status as an individual lawfully admitted for permanent residence has been revoked for not more than 30 days was, for the purpose of immigration enforcement, detained in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security for not less than 24 hours or removed by the Department.
(2)
Requirements
The system established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include, to the greatest extent practicable, all instances in which a citizen or other individual described in such paragraph was, for the purpose of immigration enforcement, apprehended and detained by another Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency and transferred to the custody of the Department of Homeland Security for detention of not less than 24 hours or removal, as the case may be. Such system shall, in particular, include information with respect to such instances regarding such a citizen or other individual who on the date of such removal was less than 18 years of age and was so removed alongside an individual who on such date was without lawful status under the immigration laws and was a parent or guardian of such citizen or other individual, as the case may be.
(b)
Process for proof of citizenship
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in collaboration with the Secretary of State, shall establish by rule a process for each United States citizen, or other individual, detained, removed, or apprehended as described in subsection (a) to submit to the Secretary of Homeland Security any information that indicates such individual is a United States citizen or lawfully admitted for permanent resident, as the case may be.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the following:
(A)
In the House of Representatives, the following:
(i)
The Committee on Homeland Security.
(ii)
The Committee on Judiciary.
(iii)
The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
(B)
In the Senate, the following:
(i)
The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
(ii)
The Committee on Judiciary.
(2)
Immigration laws
The term
immigration laws
has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)
).
(3)
Removed
The term
removed
means repatriated or otherwise transported from the United States to another country.
