118 HCON 77 IH: Expressing support for the designation of the week of November 13 through November 19, 2023, as “National Caregiving Youth Week” to raise awareness and encourage national recognition of children and adolescents under 18 years of age who serve as a primary or secondary caregiver for family or household members.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 77
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 17, 2023
Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida
(for herself,
Ms. Salazar
,
Ms. Lee of California
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Ms. Norton
,
Ms. Dean of Pennsylvania
, and
Mr. Carter of Louisiana
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of the week of November 13 through November 19, 2023, as
National Caregiving Youth Week
to raise awareness and encourage national recognition of children and adolescents under 18 years of age who serve as a primary or secondary caregiver for family or household members.
Whereas the term
caregiving youth
refers to children and adolescents aged 18 years and under who serve as a primary or secondary caregiver for family or household members who are aging, have a chronic illness, disability, frailty, or other health condition for which they require assistance on a regular basis, including military families and veterans;
Whereas there are an estimated more than five million caregiving youth nationwide;
Whereas there has not been a comprehensive census calculating this population since 2005, leaving the actual number of youth in this population today unknown due to limited data collection, lack of formal recognition, and the hesitance of many families to share information on caregiving youth;
Whereas the need for new national research is urgent in order to identify and support this underserved population;
Whereas caregiving youth are distinct because they care specifically for a loved one who has one or more medical conditions or functional decline requiring care and support to undertake everyday activities;
Whereas caregiving duties range from assisting with personal care, such as dressing, bathing, eating, toileting, or assisting with mobility, to managing medical equipment, administering medications, caring for a wound, preparing meals, translating language in medical settings, and more, all of which would typically be the responsibility of an adult;
Whereas many caregiving youth also provide significant ongoing emotional support, particularly when a family member is struggling with a terminal or chronic illness;
Whereas caregiving youth face challenges balancing their caregiving responsibilities with their education, mental health, and overall well-being because of the inherent challenges, demands, and stressors of providing care for an ill or disabled family member, therefore putting this population at greater risk of experiencing anxiety and depression, school dropout, and reduced educational options during transitions to adulthood;
Whereas caregiving youth often do not have access to the resources and services available to adult family caregivers;
Whereas families of color and low-income families are disproportionately likely to rely on caregiving youth;
Whereas the number of caregiving youth is increasing due to an aging population, more multigeneration households, the opioid epidemic, lack of home care insurance and services, advances in technology allowing for complex care at home including for veterans, more single parent/grandparent households, and the COVID–19 pandemic; and
Whereas when caregiving youth receive recognition and support, many of the challenges they experience can be mitigated, resulting in academic and personal success: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
supports the designation of
National Caregiving Youth Week
;
(2)
recognizes caregiving youth in the United States as an underserved and underrecognized population;
(3)
encourages educators, research institutions, health care professionals, community leaders, policymakers, and others to become more familiar with the work, needs, and contributions of caregiving youth; and
(4)
supports Federal initiatives to provide up-to-date nationwide research on caregiving youth.
