118 HCON 33 IH: Freedom to Decide Act
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-04-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 33
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 13, 2023
Mr. Gottheimer
(for himself,
Ms. Crockett
, and
Ms. Craig
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing support for access to medication abortion in the United States.
Whereas all people have a fundamental right to make personal, private health care decisions about their own bodies, lives, and futures;
Whereas access to medication abortion is essential to protecting that fundamental right and does note violate Federal law, as confirmed by the December 23, 2022, Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel Memorandum Opinion entitled
Application of the Comstock Act to the Mailing of Prescription Drugs That Can Be Used for Abortions
;
Whereas telehealth services for medication abortion are safe and dramatically improve accessibility of reproductive health care services; and
Whereas the drug mifepristone was appropriately approved under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
): Now, therefore, be it
1.
Short title
This resolution may be cited as the
Freedom to Decide Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress to—
(1)
affirm the existing authority to distribute medication abortion under Federal law, as confirmed by the December 23, 2022, Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel Memorandum Opinion for the General Counsel of the United States Postal Service which states in part that
Section 1461 of title 18 of the U.S. Code does not prohibit the mailing of certain drugs that can be used to perform abortions where the sender lacks the intent that the recipient of the drugs will use them unlawfully.
; and
(2)
condemn restrictions on access to and coverage of reproductive health care, including medication abortion like mifepristone.
