118 HCON 65 IH: Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for the Congressional Sneaker Caucus Shoe Drive for the Homeless Community.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 65
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 20, 2023
Mr. Moskowitz
(for himself and
Mrs. Chavez-DeRemer
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for the Congressional Sneaker Caucus Shoe Drive for the Homeless Community.
1.
Use of capitol grounds for shoe drive
(a)
In general
The Congressional Sneaker Caucus (in this resolution referred to as the
sponsor
) shall be permitted to sponsor a public event, sneaker or shoe drive (in this resolution referred to as the
event
), on the Capitol Grounds.
(b)
Date of event
The event shall be held on such date as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, in consultation with the appropriate Members of Congress, jointly designate (but in no case later than the last day of the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress).
2.
Terms and conditions
(a)
In general
Under conditions to be prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the event shall be—
(1)
free of admission charge and open to the public; and
(2)
arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
(b)
Expenses and liabilities
The sponsor shall assume full responsibility for all expenses and liabilities incident to all activities associated with the event.
3.
Event preparations
Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, the sponsor is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment as may be required for the event.
4.
Additional arrangements
The Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are authorized to make such additional arrangements as may be required to carry out the event.
5.
Enforcement of restrictions
The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of the restrictions contained in section 5104(c) of title 40, United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements, displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, with respect to the event.
