2.
The joint resolutions referred to in the first section of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
The joint resolution (S.J. Res. 80) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision’’.
(b)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 130) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment”.
(c)
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 131) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ‘‘Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision’’.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 58) denouncing the horrors of socialism. All points of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution are waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or their respective designees.
4.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1949) to repeal restrictions on the export and import of natural gas. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
5.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3109) to require the Secretary of Energy to direct the National Petroleum Council to issue a report with respect to petrochemical refineries in the United States, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
6.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5107) to repeal the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022 enacted by the District of Columbia Council. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
7.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5214) to require mandatory pretrial and post conviction detention for crimes of violence and dangerous crimes and require mandatory cash bail for certain offenses that pose a threat to public safety or order in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
8.
Upon transmission to the Senate of a message that the House has passed H.R. 4405, House Resolution 581 shall be laid on the table.
Kevin F. McCumber,
Clerk.
