SECTION 1. As used in this Order:

(a) " " means all of the several  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(b) "Introduction" means the release, escape, or establishment of an exotic species into a natural ecosystem.

(c) "  species" means all species of plants and animals not naturally occurring, either presently or historically, in any ecosystem of  .

(d) "Native species" means all species of plants and animals naturally occurring, either presently or historically, in any ecosystem of  .

 . 2. (a) Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, restrict the introduction of exotic species into the natural ecosystems on lands and waters which they own, lease, or hold for purposes of administration; and, shall encourage the  , local governments, and private citizens to prevent the introduction of exotic species into natural ecosystems of  .

(b) Executive agencies, to the extent they have been authorized by statute to restrict the importation of exotic species, shall restrict the introduction of exotic species into any natural ecosystem of  .

(c) Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, restrict the use of Federal funds, programs, or authorities used to export native species for the purpose of introducing such species into ecosystems outside   where they do not naturally occur.

(d) This   does not apply to the introduction of any exotic species, or the export of any native species, if the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the   finds that such introduction or exportation will not have an adverse effect on natural ecosystems.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall develop and implement, by rule or regulation, a system to standardize and simplify the requirements, procedures and other activities appropriate for implementing the provisions of this  . The Secretary of the   shall ensure that such rules or regulations are in accord with the performance by other agencies of those functions vested by law, including this  , in such agencies.
