Executive Order  —  Boats
 
 

Whereas the following joint resolution adopted by   was approved by the President  :

Joint Resolution Authorizing the President to take over for   the possession and title of any vessel within its jurisdiction, which at the time of coming therein was owned in whole or in part by any corporation, citizen, or subject of any nation with which   may be at war, or was under register of any such nation, and for other purposes.

Resolved by the   and   in   assembled, That the President be, and he is hereby, authorized to take over to   the immediate possession and title of any vessel within the jurisdiction thereof, including the Canal Zone and all territories and insular possessions of   except the   Virgin Islands, which at the time of coming into such jurisdiction was owned in whole or in part by any corporation, citizen, or subject of any nation with which   may be at war when such vessel shall be taken, or was flying the flag of or was under register of any such nation or any political subdivision or municipality thereof; and, through  , or any department or agency of the Government, to operate, lease, charter, and equip such vessel in any service of  , or in any commerce, foreign or otherwise.

 . 2. That the Secretary of the   be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to appoint, subject to the approval of the President, a board of survey, whose duty it shall be to ascertain the actual value of the vessel, its equipment, appurtenances, and all property contained therein, at the time of its taking, and to make a written report of their findings to the Secretary of the  , who shall preserve such report with the records of his department. These findings shall be considered as competent evidence in all proceedings on any claim for compensation.

And whereas the following vessel was, at the time of coming into the jurisdiction of   owned in whole or in part by a corporation, citizen or subject of  , a nation with which   is now at war, or was flying the flag of or under the register of  , or of a political subdivision or municipality thereof: Cargo steamship  , now lying at  ,  .

It is therefore ordered that through   there be taken over to   the possession and title of the aforementioned vessel.   is further hereby authorized to repair, equip and man said vessel; to operate, lease or charter the same in any service of  , or in any commerce, foreign or coastwise; and to do and perform any and all things that may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of the joint resolution above set forth.

WOODROW WILSON

 

 .
