Whereas Dr. Jane Goodall, born Valerie Jane Morris-Goodall on April 3, 1934, is a world-renowned ethologist, conservationist, and activist;
Whereas Dr. Goodall immersed herself in the study of chimpanzees in their natural habitat within Gombe Stream National Park in Gombe, Tanzania;
Whereas Dr. Goodall was one of the first female wildlife field researchers, inspiring countless other women to follow in her footsteps;
Whereas Dr. Goodall’s findings on the tool-making practices of chimpanzees revolutionized the field of primatology and forever changed the way animals are perceived and studied;
Whereas the Jane Goodall Institute, established in 1977 by Dr. Goodall, spearheads the world’s longest-running field research into great apes, supports the protection and restoration of the natural world, is an innovative leader in advancing community led conservation, and promotes environmental education;
Whereas Dr. Goodall, through the Jane Goodall Institute, has provided over 300 scholarships to young women to support their education and has paved the way for women in science;
Whereas the Tchimpounga Rehabilitation Center was established by the Jane Goodall Institute in the Republic of Congo in 1991 to care for chimpanzees orphaned by the illegal commercial bushmeat and pet trades and has cared for over 200 chimpanzees in its 30-year existence;
Whereas Dr. Goodall was named a United Nations Messenger of Peace in 2002, the highest honor of the United Nations, to recognize her peace building work through the Roots & Shoots youth program;
Whereas the Roots & Shoots youth program has inspired over 1,470,000 young people in over 65 countries to engage in activities that make a difference in their communities;
Whereas Dr. Goodall transformed traditional conservation through the Lake Tanganyika Catchment Reforestation and Education (TACARE) program, which prioritizes community-centered conservation in designing the future;
Whereas Dr. Goodall has become a beacon of hope through her numerous books and documentaries, inspiring individuals of all ages to work towards a brighter future; and
Whereas Dr. Goodall has built a legacy of environmental activism, humanity, and infectious compassion: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
uses April 3, 2024, to commemorate the birth of Dr. Jane Goodall and to celebrate the extraordinary contributions of Dr. Goodall and the impact she has had on the world;
(2)
proclaims April 3, 2024, as
Jane Goodall Day
across the country; and
(3)
expresses gratitude to Dr. Goodall for her unwavering dedication to the well-being of animals, conservation, and the planet as a whole.
