By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under   of  , approved   (Public Resolution No. 11, 74th  ), I hereby establish an agency within the Government to be known as  ", and appoint  , Under Secretary of Agriculture, as Administrator thereof, to serve without additional compensation.

I hereby prescribe the following functions and duties of the said   to be exercised and performed by the Administrator thereof:

(a) To administer approved projects involving resettlement of destitute or low-income families from rural and urban areas, including the establishment, maintenance, and operation, in such connection, of communities in rural and suburban areas.

(b) To initiate and administer a program of approved projects with respect to soil erosion, stream pollution, seacoast erosion, reforestation, forestation, and flood control.

(c) To make loans as authorized under the said Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of   to finance, in whole or in part, the purchase of farm lands and necessary equipment by farmers, farm tenants, croppers, or farm laborers.

In the performance of such duties and functions the Administrator is hereby authorized to employ the services and means mentioned in subdivision (a) of section 3 of the said Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of  , to the extent therein provided, and, within the limitations prescribed by said section, to exercise the authority with respect to personnel conferred by subdivision (b) thereof.

To the extent necessary to carry out the provisions of this Executive Order the Administrator is authorized to acquire, by purchase or by the power of eminent domain, any real property or any interest therein and improve, develop, grant, sell, lease (with or without the privilege of purchasing), or otherwise dispose of any such property or interest therein.

The acquisition of articles, materials, and supplies for use in carrying out any project authorized by this Executive Order shall be subject to the provisions of   of the   and  ,   (47 Stat.  ,  ).

For the administrative expenses of   there is hereby allocated to the Administration from the appropriation made by   of   the sum of $250,000. Separate allocations will be made hereafter for each of the authorized activities as may be needed.
