Whereas

after investigation I find and proclaim that there are existing and threatened interruptions of the operations of the plants and facilities of  , located in  ,  , as a result of labor disturbances arising from the failure of   to comply with directive orders of  ; that the war effort will be unduly impeded or delayed by these interruptions; and that the exercise, as hereinafter specified, of the powers vested in me is necessary to insure, in the interest of the war effort, the operation of these plants and facilities and of other plants and facilities which are threatened to be affected by the said labor disturbances:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is hereby directed as follows:

1. The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and directed, through and with the aid of any persons or instrumentalities that he may designate, to take possession of the plants and facilities of  , located in  ,  , including the mail order house, the retail store and the Schwinn Warehouse, together with any real or personal property and other assets used in connection with the operation thereof, and to operate or to arrange for the operation of the plants and facilities in any manner that he deems necessary for the successful prosecution of the war, and to do all things necessary or   thereto. The Secretary of   is further authorized to exercise any contractual or other rights of the   and to take any other steps that he deems necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of this order.

2. The Secretary of   shall operate the plants and facilities of the   under the terms and conditions of the directive orders of   dated  , and  .

3. The Secretary of   is authorized to take any action that he may deem necessary or desirable to provide protection for the plants and facilities and for all persons employed or seeking employment therein.

4. Upon the request of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of War shall take any action that may be necessary to enable the Secretary of   to carry out the provisions and purposes of this order.

5. Possession, control, and operation of any plant or facility, or part thereof, taken under this order shall be terminated by the Secretary of   within   after he determines that the productive efficiency of the plant. facility, or parts thereof prevailing prior to the existing and threatened interruptions of production, referred to in the recitals of this order, has been restored.
