The Executive order of  , as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the act of   (ch. 254, 22 Stat. 117, 121), the following rules and regulations are hereby prescribed for the government of the   and   at Hot Springs,  :

1. The said hospital shall continue to be known as the   and   and shall be under the direction of the Secretary of War, and it shall be devoted to the treatment of such diseases as the waters of the hot springs of   have an established reputation for benefiting.   will announce the character of the diseases from which benefit by treatment at this hospital may be expected, and will set forth the proper procedure for obtaining admission thereto for treatment.

2. The organization of the hospital shall consist of one medical officer of the  , who shall command it, and such other medical officers of the   and   as may be necessary, to be detailed by the Secretary of War or by the Secretary of the  , respectively; one or more officers of   the  ; such members of   as may be detailed by the Secretary of War; such noncommissioned officers and enlisted men of   as may be authorized by the Secretary of War; and such civilian employees as may be necessary for the proper service of the hospital when authorized by   the  . The duties of the commissioned and enlisted personnel and members of   shall be the same as those prescribed by regulations for   hospitals.

3. This hospital, within the limits of available accommodations, shall be devoted to the treatment of the personnel indicated below:

a

. Officers, nurses, commissioned warrant officers, warrant officers, and enlisted men of the  , the  , and  , on the active lists, and cadets at   and midshipmen at  , subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the War and  , respectively.

b

. Beneficiaries of the United States Veterans' Administration entitled to hospitalization, upon request of the proper representative thereof.

c

. When authorized by the Secretary of War, officers, enlisted men, and cadets of  , and officers of   on the active lists under such rules as may be prescribed by  ; and officers and enlisted men of  , on the active lists, under such rules as may be prescribed by  .

d

. Officers, nurses, commissioned warrant officers, warrant officers, pay clerks, and enlisted men of the  , the  ,  ,  , and the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and officers of  , on the retired lists or the equivalent thereof, under such rules as may be prescribed by the Secretary of War.

e

. Members of   and   who are entitled to treatment in naval hospitals (act approved  , 45 Stat.  ), when authorized by the Secretary of War, subject to such conditions and regulations as may be prescribed by  .

f

. Honorably discharged officers, nurses, commissioned warrant officers, warrant officers,   field clerks, field clerks  , pay clerks, cadets, cadet engineers, and enlisted men of the  , the  ,   (including  ,  , volunteers and drafted or selected men in the service of  ),  , and the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and honorably discharged officers of  , under such conditions and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of War.

g

. When practicable, and for a reasonable time, under such conditions and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of War, such persons, other than those enumerated above, who are entitled to medical care and treatment at the expense of  .

h

. Such other persons as may be eligible under   regulations for treatment in   hospitals.

4. The rations of enlisted men of the   on the active list while under treatment in the hospital will be commuted at the rate of 60 cents a ration to be paid to the commanding officer of the hospital by the post finance officer or such other officer as may be designated, conformably to the regulations governing the subsistence of enlisted patients at other   hospitals.

5. Since it is impracticable to establish a separate mess for enlisted men on duty at this hospital, and rations in kind cannot be economically issued, the rations of the enlisted men of the   on duty at this hospital will be commuted at the rate of 60 cents a ration, conformably to the regulations governing such payments in other   cases.

6. The subsistence of enlisted men of the  ,  ,  , and  , on the active lists, under treatment in this hospital in pursuance of orders, will be paid for to the commanding officer of the hospital at the rate of 60 cents a day by the proper officers of  ,  , and  , upon   statements of amounts due certified by the commanding officer of the hospital direct to   of the  ,  , and the Director of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, respectively.

7. The subsistence of members of   on the active list whether on duty or as patients in this hospital will be paid for by them   to the commanding officer of the hospital at the rate of 60 cents a day.

8. Subsistence charges will be collected from other pay patients as follows:

a

. For those subsisted on the status of an enlisted man, at 85 cents per day.

b

. For those subsisted on the status of an officer, at $1.50 per day.

9. Medicine charges will be collected from patients not entitled to medical care and treatment at the expense of the Government, and from the proper governmental department concerned, other than  , for those patients entitled to medical care and treatment at the expense of the appropriations of their respective departments, as follows:

a

. For a patient in hospital, 50 cents for   in hospital.

b

. For a dispensary case or out-patient, 50 cents for each prescription or treatment.

c

. Such additional charges as may be necessary to cover the cost of expensive medicines, dressings, or appliances.

10. In the cases of patients admitted upon account of   Veterans' Administration, subsistence charges at 85 cents a day will be billed and submitted with   form no. 351 properly accomplished, by the commanding officer of the hospital direct to the local finance officer for settlement. Other expenses of   patients will be adjusted between the appropriations concerned in conformity with orders issued by the Secretary of War from time to time.

11. In the cases of patients admitted upon account of  , subsistence and other charges will be billed by the commanding officer direct to the  .

12. Collections arising from subsistence charges will be taken up and accounted for as hospital funds. Collections arising from medicine charges will be turned over, on   form no.  , to the nearest disbursing or agent officer for deposit with the Treasurer of   to the credit of the proper appropriations, which will be designated on   form no. 322a, and accounted for in due form accordingly.
