Pursuant to the authority in me vested by the Constitution of the United States, I hereby appoint as a commission to ascertain and report the facts relating to the attack made by   armed forces upon the Territory of Hawaii on  , the following:

Associate Justice  ,  , Chairman;

Admiral  ,  , Retired;

Rear Admiral  ,  , Retired;

Major General  ,  , Retired;

Brigadier General  ,  .

The purposes of the required inquiry and report are to provide bases for sound decisions whether any derelictions of duty or errors of judgment on the part of   or   personnel contributed to such successes as were achieved by the enemy on the occasion mentioned, and if so, what these derelictions or errors were, and who were responsible therefor.

The   will convene at the call of its Chairman at  , D. C, will thereafter proceed with its professional and clerical assistants to  , Territory of  , and any other places it may deem necessary to visit for the completion of its inquiry. It will then return to  , D. C., and submit its report direct to the President of  .

The   is empowered to prescribe its own procedure, to employ such professional and clerical assistants as it may deem necessary, to fix the compensation and allowances of such assistants, to incur all necessary expenses for services and supplies, and to direct such travel of members and employees at public expense as it may deem necessary in the accomplishment of its mission. Each of the members of the   and each of its professional assistants, including civilian advisers and any  ,  , and   officers so employed, detailed, or assigned shall receive payment of his actual and necessary expenses for transportation, and in addition and in lieu of all other allowances for expenses while absent from the place of his residence or station in connection with the business of the  , a per diem allowance of twenty-five dollars. All of the expenses of the   shall be paid by   disbursing officers from allocations to be made to   for that purpose from   for the President.

All executive officers and agencies of   are directed to furnish the   such facilities, services, and cooperation as it may request of them from time to time.
