OKLAHOMA

Whereas

certain lands in   have been acquired, or are in process of acquisition, under authority of  , approved   (48 Stat. 200),   of  , approved   (49 Stat 115), and Title III of   Tenant Act, approved   (U.S.C., title 7, secs.  , 50 Stat. 522, 525), in connection with  ; and

Whereas

by Executive Order No. 7908 of  , all the right, title, and interest of   in those lands acquired, or in process of acquisition, under authority of the aforesaid National Industrial Recovery Act and   of   were transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture for use, administration, and disposition in accordance with the provisions of Title III of the aforesaid   Tenant Act, and the related provisions of Title IV thereof; and immediately upon the acquisition of legal title to those lands now in process of acquisition under authority of the said acts, the said order, under the terms thereof, will become applicable to all the additional right, title, and interest thereby acquired by  ; and

Whereas

it appears that the use of such lands by the Secretary of War for military purposes would best carry out the land conservation and land utilization program for which such lands were acquired and would be in the public interest:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 32 of Title III of the aforesaid   Tenant Act, and upon recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that all lands within the hereinafter-described areas acquired or in process of acquisition by  , together with the improvements thereon, be, and they are hereby, transferred from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary of War for military purposes:

Provided, however

, that the Secretary of Agriculture shall retain such jurisdiction over the lands now in process of acquisition by   as may be necessary to enable him to complete their acquisition.

 ,  

 

T. 13 N.,   20 E., secs. 1 to 4; 9 to 12;  ,  , inclusive

T. 14 N.,   20 E., secs. 1 to 5; 8 to 17; 20; 23 to .27; and 33 to 36, inclusive

T. 15 N.,   20 E., secs. 13 to 16; 21 to 30; and 32 to 36, inclusive.

Executive Order No.  , dated  , which transferred certain lands in the above-described area from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary of War for use as a military reservation, is superseded by this order.

Executive Order No.  , dated  , which transferred control and jurisdiction over 4.43 acres of lands within the above-described area from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary of the Interior for the benefit of certain  , is hereby revoked.

It is intended that the lands transferred by this order shall be returned to the Secretary of  , for administration pursuant to Title III of the said   Tenant Act, when they are no longer needed for military purposes.
