By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96), the following-described areas are hereby established for purposes of national defense as naval defensive sea areas, with names as indicated:

1.  ,  , Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of Casco Bay,  , Luckse Sound,   and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running from  ) to   buoy No "2" in approximate position, Latitude 43°34'17" North, Longitude 70°07'40" West, thence to   buoy, in approximate position Latitude 43°36'02" North, Longitude 70°04'04" West, thence to  , thence to the southernmost point on Little Birch Island, thence to   Great Chebeag Island, thence to   Cousin Island, thence to   on the mainland; and within Portland Harbor to:

A line crossing Portland Harbor at  .

2.  ,  , Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of the Atlantic Ocean,  ,  , and  , the Piscataqua River and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running northwest and southeast across   Cove through nun buoy No. "4" of Fishing Island, in approximate position Latitude 43°04'40" North, Longitude 70°42'18" West;

A line running southerly from   Gerrlsh Island to nun buoy No. "2", off West Sister Shoal in approximate position Latitude 43°03'36" North, Longitude 70°40'11" West, thence southwesterly to bell buoy No. "1" off  , in approximate position  °01'25" North, Longitude 70°41'51" West, thence westerly to  , thence northwest to the shore of the mainland;

A line running from   to   on Newcastle Island; and within Portsmouth Harbor, to:

A line crossing the Piscataqua River at and following the   and  .

3.  ,  , Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of Massachusetts Bay,  , President  ,  ; the Mystic,  , and  ,  , Weymouth Fore River,  , Hingham Bay and their tributaries, bays and streams from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line connecting   ( ) and  ,  ;

A line connecting  ,  , and  , Win throe Highlands; and within  , to:

A line across the Mystic River at and following the downstream   and  ; and

A line across the Charles River at and following the Charlestown Bridge.

4.  

All   territorial waters of  , the Sakonnet River,  , and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running from the shore North of Point Judith on true bearing East to Little League Rock, thence northeasterly to bell buoy "E" in approximate position. Latitude 41°24'23" North, Longitude 71°21'24" West, thence to bell buoy No. "2", off  , in approximate position Latitude 41°26'24" North, Longitude 71°11'39" West, thence to the southernmost land of  ; and within   and its tributaries to:

A line across the Taunton River at and following the  ,   and  ; and

A line across the Seekonk River at and following  .

5.  ,  , Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of the Pacific Ocean,  . and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters, as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running from   southerly to   "1A", in approximate position Latitude 32°37'19" North, Longitude 117°14'42" West, thence northeasterly to   "0", in approximate position, Latitude 32°38'06" North, Longitude 117°12'07" West, thence easterly to Target No. 1 on shore, in approximate position Latitude 32°37'20" North, Longitude 117°08'04" West; and, within  , all the waters to the north of:

A line following the parallel of Latitude 32°40' North, from shore to shore.

6.  ,  , Defensive Sea Area

All   territorial waters of the Gulf of the Farallones,  , San Pablo Bay, the Napa River,  ,  ,   and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters, as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running north to the shore from   "1DR" (Duxbury Reef) in approximate position, Latitude 37°51'36" North, Longitude 122°41'46" West;

A line running southerly from   "1DR" along the seaward limit of   territorial waters to the parallel of Latitude 37°40' North, thence east along that parallel of Latitude to the shore; and within   and its tributaries to:

A line across the south part of   at and following the San Mateo Bridge;

A line across Carquinez Straits at and following  ;

A line across the Napa River at and following the Vallejo-Mare Island Causeway.

7.  

All   territorial waters of the Pacific Ocean and the Columbia River and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high water on the shores of these waters as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running from  ,  , west to the boundary of   territorial waters, thence southerly along the boundary of   territorial waters to the vicinity of  . "1", in approximate position, Latitude 46°14'21" North, Longitude 124°09'38" West, thence southeasterly along the seaward boundary of   territorial waters to the parallel of Latitude 46°10' North, and along this parallel of Latitude to the shore; and within the Columbia River to:

A line across the Columbia River from  ,  , to  ,  ;

A north and south line across Youngs River from shore to shore at the westernmost point of  ;

A line across the   and Clark River at and following  .

8. Strait of Juan de Fuca and Puget Sound Defensive Sea Abea

All   territorial waters of the Pacific Ocean, the Strait of Juan de Fuca,  , Saratoga Passage, Possession Sound,  , Puget Sound, and their tributaries from the contour line of extreme high, water on the shores of these waters, as shown on the latest U.S.C. and  , to:

A line running north from Tatoosh Island to the international boundary, thence easterly along the international boundary line to the easternmost point of that line in the vicinity of  , thence to  , thence easterly to the shore of Whidbey Island at Deception Pass;

A line running north from   on Camano Island to the shore of Whidbey Island; and

A line running east from   on Camano Island to the shore of the mainland.

A vessel not proceeding under   naval or other   authorized supervision shall not enter or navigate the waters of any of the defensive sea areas established hereby except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within any of the said defensive sea areas must be made, preferably by application at the appropriate   District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs and permission to enter the port shall be requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of the master must be given in the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure will be essentially the same.

A vessel entering or navigating the waters of any of the said defensive sea areas does so at its own risk.

Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering any one of the said defensive sea areas to obey any further instructions received from   or other   authority.

A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within any of the said defensive sea areas, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft shall be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.

These regulations are subject to amplification by the local   naval authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.

When a United States Maritime Control Area is established adjacent to or abutting upon any of the said described defensive sea areas, it shall be assumed that permission to enter, and other instructions issued by proper authority, shall apply to any one continuous passage through or within both areas.

Any master of a vessel or other person within any of the said defensive sea areas, who shall disregard these regulations, or shall fail to obey an order of   naval authority to stop or heave to, or shall perform any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses or the safety of navigation, or shall take any action inimical to the interests of  , may be detained therein by force of arms and renders himself liable to attack by the armed forces of  , and liable to prosecution as provided in section 44 of the Criminal Code, as amended (U.S.C., title 18,  . 96).

  authorities shall place at the disposal of the naval authorities their facilities for aiding in the enforcement of these regulations.

The Secretary of the   shall be charged with the publication and enforcement of these regulations.
