By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the First War Powers Act,  , approved  , as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and  , and in order to assure the most effective utilization of the shipping of   for the successful prosecution of the war, it is hereby ordered:

1. There is established within   of the President a War Shipping Administration under the direction of an Administrator who shall be appointed by and responsible to the President.

2. The Administrator shall perform the following functions and duties:

(a) Control the operation, purchase, charter, requisition, and use of all ocean vessels under the flag or control of  , except (1) combatant vessels of the  ,  , and  ; fleet auxiliaries of the  ; and transports owned by the   and  ; and (2) vessels engaged in coastwise, intercoastal, and inland transportation under the control of the Director of  .

(b) Allocate vessels under the flag or control of   for use by the  ,  , other   departments and agencies, and  .

(c) Provide marine insurance and reinsurance against loss or damage by the risks of war as authorized by Title II of the Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended.

(d) Establish the conditions to be complied with as a condition to receiving priorities and other advantages as provided in Public Law 173, 77th  , approved  .

(e) Represent   in dealing with   and with similar shipping agencies of   allied with   in the prosecution of the war, in matters related to the use of shipping.

(f) Maintain current data on the availability of shipping in being and under construction and furnish such data on request to   and the  , and other Federal departments and agencies concerned with the import or export of war materials and commodities.

(g) Keep the President informed with regard to the progress made in carrying out this   and perform such related duties as the President shall from time to time assign or delegate to him.

3. The functions, duties, and powers conferred by law upon   with respect to the operation, purchase, charter, insurance, repair, maintenance, and requisition of vessels, and the issuance of warrants with respect thereto, under the Merchant Marine Act of   as amended, 49 Stat.  , Public Law No. 101, 77th  , approved  , and Executive Order No.   issued pursuant thereto, Public Law No. 173, 77th  , approved  , are hereby transferred to the Administrator; and such part of existing personnel of   together with such records and public property as the Administrator may deem necessary to the full exercise of his functions and duties prescribed by this   are hereby assigned to  .

4. Vessels under the control of   shall constitute a pool to be allocated by the Administrator for use by the  ,  , other   departments and agencies, and  . In allocating the use of such vessels, the Administrator shall comply with strategic military requirements.

5. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this  , the Administrator is authorized to utilize the services of available and appropriate personnel of  , the War and  ,   and  , and other Government departments and agencies which are engaged in activities related to the operation of shipping.

6. In the discharge of his responsibilities the Administrator shall collaborate with existing military, naval, and civil departments and agencies of the Government which perform wartime functions connected with transportation overseas, in order to secure the most effective utilization of shipping in the prosecution of the war. The Administrator particularly shall maintain close liaison with   and the   through the Assistant Chief of Staff for Transportation and Supply and the Director,  , respectively, with respect to the movement of military and naval personnel and supplies; and with the Director of   with respect to the relation of overseas transportation to coastwise and intercoastal shipping and inland transportation. With respect to the overseas transportation of cargoes essential to the war production effort and the civilian economy the Administrator shall be guided by schedules transmitted to him by the Chairman of   prescribing the priority of movement of such commodities and materials.

7. The Administrator may establish committees or groups of advisers representing two or more departments of  , or agencies or missions of Governments allied with   in the prosecution of the war, as the case may require to carry out the purposes of this Order. Further, he may appoint representatives to such joint missions or boards dealing with matters within the scope of this   as may be established with Governments associated with   in the prosecution of the war.

8. Within the purposes of this  , the Administrator is authorized to issue such directives concerning shipping operations as he may deem necessary or appropriate, and his decisions shall be final with respect to the functions and authorities so vested in him. The Administrator may exercise the powers, authority, and discretion conferred upon him by this   through such officials or agencies and in such manner as he may determine.

9. The Administrator is further authorized within the limits of such funds as may be allocated, transferred, or appropriated to   to employ necessary personnel and make provisions for necessary supplies, facilities, and Services. So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds available (including funds and contract authority available for  ) for the use of   in the exercise of the functions transferred to the Administrator and  , as the Director of   with the approval of the President shall determine, shall be transferred to   for use in carrying out the functions and authority transferred to the Administrator and   pursuant to the provisions of this  . In determining the amounts to be transferred from  , the Director of   may include amounts necessary to provide for the liquidation of obligations previously incurred by   against such appropriations, allocations, or other funds prior to the transfer; Provided, that the use of the unexpended appropriations, allocations, or other funds transferred by this Section shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3 of the First War Powers Act,  .
