Section 1. Every transaction in foreign exchange, transfer of credit between any banking institution within   and any banking institution outside of   (including any principal, agent, home office, branch, or correspondent outside of   of a banking institution within  ), and the export or withdrawal from   of any currency or silver coin which is legal tender in  , by any person within  , is hereby prohibited, except under license therefor issued pursuant to tliis Executive order:

Provided, however

, That, except as prohibited under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the  , foreign exchange transactions and transfers of credit may bo carried out without a license for (a) normal commercial or business requirements, (b) reasonable traveling and other personal requirements, or (c) the fulfillment of legally enforceable obligations incurred prior to  .

 . 2.

Possessions of  

.—Except as prohibited in regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the  , transfers of credit between banking institutions in the continental   and banldng institutions in other places subject to the jurisdiction of   (including principals, agents, home offices, branches, or correspondents in such other places, of banking institutions within the continental  ), may be carried out without a license.

 . 3.

Licenses

.—The Secretary of the  , acting directly or through any agencies that ho may designate, and   banks acting in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the   may from time to time prescribe, arc hereby designated as agencies for the granting of licenses as hereinafter provided. Licenses may be granted authoiizing such transactions in foreign exchange, transfers of credit, and exports of currency (other than gold certificates) or silver coin in such specific cases or classes of cases as the Secretary of the   may determine in regulations prescribed hereunder and rulings made pursuant thereto.

 . 4.

Reports

.—The   banks shall keep themselves currently informed as to foreign exchange transactions entered into or consummated, and transfers of credit made between banking institutions outside of the continental   and banking institutions, in their districts, and report to the Secretary of the   all transactions in foreign exchange and all such transfers of credit not permitted under sections 1 or 2 hereof which arc effected or attempted in their districts without a license.

 . 5.

Regulations

.-—The Secretary of the   is authorized and empowered to prescribe from time to time regulations to carry out the purposes of this order, and to provide in such regulations or by rulings made pursuant thereto, the conditions under which licenses may be granted by   banks and by such other agencies as the Secretary of the   may designate; and the Secretary of the   may require any person engaged in any transaction, transfer, export, or withdrawal referred to in this Executive order to furnish under oath complete information relative thereto, including the production of any books of account, contracts, letters, or other papers, in connection therewith in the custody or control of such person either before or after such transaction, transfer, export, or withdrawal is completed.

 . 6.

Penalties

.—Whoever willfully violates or knowingly participates in the violation of any provision of tins Executive order or of any license, order, rule, or regulation issued or prescribed hereunder, shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 5 (6) of the act of   G,  , as amended by section 2 of the act of  .

 . 7.

Definitions

.—As used in this   order the term " " means   and any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof; the term "continental  " means the States of  ,  , and the Territory of  ; the term "person" means an individual, partnership, association, or corporation; and the term "banking institution" includes any person engaged primarily or incidentally in the business of banking, of granting or transferring credits, or of purchasing and selling foreign exchange or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; and, for the purposes of this order, each home office, branch, principal, agent, or correspondent of any person so engaged shall be regarded as a separate "banking institution".

 . 8. Section 8 of the   order of  , relating to the hoarding, export, and earmarking of gold coin, bullion, or currency and to transactions in foreign exchange, is hereby revoked.

This Executive order and any rules, regulations, or licenses prescribed or issued hereunder may be modified or revoked at any time.
