Whereas

by reason of the state of war declared to exist by joint resolutions of the  , approved  , and  , respectively (Public Laws Nos. 328, 331,332, 77th  ), the national interest demands that there shall be no interruption of any work which contributes to the effective prosecution of the war; and

Whereas

as a result of a conference of representatives of labor and industry which met at the call of the President on  , it has been agreed that for the duration of the war there shall be no strikes or lockouts, and that all labor disputes shall be settled by peaceful means, and that a   be established for the peaceful adjustment of such disputes:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , it is hereby ordered:

1. There is hereby created in  , hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board shall be composed of twelve special commissioners to be appointed by the President. Four of the members shall be representative of the public; four shall be representative of employees; and four shall be representative of employers. The President shall designate the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the   from the members representing the public. The President shall appoint four alternate members representative of employees and four representative of employers, to serve as   members in the absence of regular members representative of their respective groups. Six members or alternate members of the  , including not less than two members from each of the groups represented on the  , shall constitute a quorum. A vacancy in the   shall not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the  .

2. This   does not apply to labor disputes for which procedures for adjustment or settlement are otherwise provided until those procedures have been exhausted.

3. The procedures for adjusting and settling labor disputes which might interrupt work which contributes to the effective prosecution of the war shall be as follows: (a) The parties shall first resort to direct negotiations or to the procedures provided in a collective bargaining agreement. (b) If not settled in this manner,   shall be notified if they have not already intervened in the dispute. (c) If not promptly settled by conciliation, the Secretary of   shall certify the dispute to the  , provided, however, that the   in its discretion after consultation with the Secretary may take jurisdiction of the dispute on its own motion. After it takes jurisdiction, the   shall finally determine the dispute, and for this purpose may use mediation, voluntary arbitration, or arbitration under rules established by the  .

4. The   shall have power to promulgate rules and regulations appropriate for the performance of its duties.

5. The members of the   (including alternates) shall receive necessary traveling expenses, and, unless their compensation is otherwise prescribed by the President, shall receive in addition to traveling expenses $25.00 per diem for subsistence expense on   as they are actually engaged in the performance of duties pursuant to this  . The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of its officers, examiners, mediators, umpires, and arbitrators; and the Chairman is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of other necessary employees of the Board. The   shall avail itself, insofar as practicable, of the services and facilities of   and of other departments and agencies of the Government.

6. Upon the appointment of the   and the designation of its Chairman,   established by Executive Order No.   of  , shall cease to exist. All employees of   shall be transferred to the   without acquiring by such transfer any change in grade or civil service status. All records, papers, and property, and all unexpended funds and appropriations for the use and maintenance of   shall be transferred to the Board. All duties with respect to cases certified to   shall be assumed by the   for discharge under the provisions of this  .

7. Nothing herein shall be construed as superseding or in conflict with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act (Act of  , as amended, 44 Stat. 577; 48 Stat. 926,  ; 49 Stat.  ; 45 U.S. Code 151),   of  , 49 Stat. 457; 29 U.S. Code 151 et seq.), the Fair Labor Standards Act (Act of  ; 52 Stat.  ; 29 U.S. Code 201 et seq.), and the Act to provide conditions for the purchase of supplies, etc., approved   (49 Stat.  ; 41 U.S. Code, sections  ), or the Act amending the Act of  , relating to the rate of wages for laborers and mechanics, approved   (49 Stat.  ; 40 U.S. Code, Section 276 et seq.).
