Section 1. As used in this regulation "projects" shall mean projects financed in whole or in part from funds appropriated by   of  .

Section 2. Persons shall be eligible for employment on projects who (

a

) are registered with the employment offices designated by   in accordance with the administrative order issued  , by   and (

b

) were receiving public relief in  Provided

, however, that as the various occupational classes in such group are exhausted through employment, other persons who (1) become eligible for public relief subsequent to  , and (2) are certified to   and   by   may be added to the list of those eligible for such employment.

Section 3. Persons who once become eligible for employment on projects shall not have their eligibility affected by temporary employment in other public employment or in private industry.

Section 4.   shall notify   of all persons who (

a

) are employed on projects and (

b

) have complied with the eligibility requirements provided in section 1 hereof and have been placed in other public employment or in private employment. Such notification shall be made immediately after such placements on forms prescribed by  .

Section 5. Only persons certified for assignment to work by   shall be employed on projects:

Provided

, That for the purpose of effectuating the purposes of paragraph I (C) of Executive Order No.   of  ,   or   are hereby authorized, in their discretion, to modify this requirement in connection with any project not operated under contract.

Section 6. All persons (

a

) who are employed on projects conducted by   and continued by  , and who are otherwise eligible, or (

b

) who are certified by   as eligible for employment on projects to be conducted by   shall be regarded as continuously certified for assignment to work on projects to be conducted by   unless they are requisitioned by   for employment on other projects, in other public work, or in private industry.

Section 7. Persons who are certified for assignment to work on projects shall be accepted or rejected by those having responsibility for the management of such employment solely on the basis of their fitness to perform the assigned tasks and shall not be discriminated against on any other grounds whatsoever.
