section 4 of Executive Order No.  , provides in part:

"The function of disbursement of moneys of   exercised by any agency is transferred to   and, together with   of that  , is consolidated in a  , at the head of which shall be a Chief Disbursing Officer."

Whereas

the effective date of section 4 of Executive Order No.   has been deferred until  , by Executive Order No. 6727 of this date, subject to the provisions contained therein; and

Whereas

, after further consideration, I have determined that such transfer of the disbursing functions under the jurisdiction of  ,  , and the Panama Canal, except as hereinafter set forth, would adversely affect the operation of our military and naval forces in time of emergency and would not be in the public interest;

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 16 of the act of   (ch. 212,  ,  ,  ), it is ordered that the above-quoted provision of section 4 of Executive Order No.  , be, and it is hereby, revoked insofar as and to the extent that it is applicable to the disbursing functions under the jurisdiction of  ,   (including  ), and the Panama Canal, except those pertaining to departmental salaries and expenses in  :

Provided

, that the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the   shall continue to furnish the Secretary of the   such fiscal reports as are now or may hereafter be required by law, and such other fiscal data as may be required by the Secretary of the   from tune to time:

Provided further

, that upon the request of the Secretary of the   and with the approval of the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the  , as the case may be, the facilities of the War and   and the Panama Canal may be utilized in the disbursement, or aiding in the disbursement, of public moneys of   available for expenditure by any executive department, independent establishment, or agency of the Government.

This order will become effective in accordance with the provisions of section 1, title III, of the act of   (ch. 3,   Stat. 8,  ).

Done in triplicate.
