By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of  , and in order to define further the functions and duties of   with respect to the unlimited national emergency as declared by the President on  , for the purpose of assuring adequate provision for research on scientific and medical problems relating to the national defense, it is hereby ordered:

1. There shall be within   of the President  , at the head of which shall be a Director appointed by the President. The Director shall discharge and perform his responsibilities and duties under the direction and supervision of the President. The Director shall receive compensation at such rate as the President shall determine and, in addition, shall be entitled to actual and necessary transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of his duties.

2. Subject to such policies, regulations, and directions as the President may from time to time prescribe, and with such advice and assistance as may be necessary from the other departments and agencies of  ,   shall:

a. Advise the President with regard to the status of scientific and medical research relating to national defense and the measures necessary to assure continued and increasing progress in this field.

b. Serve as the center for the mobilization of the scientific personnel and resources of the   in order to assure maximum utilization of such personnel and resources in developing and applying the results of scientific research to defense purposes.

c. Coordinate, aid, and, where desirable, supplement the experimental and other scientific and medical research activities relating to national defense carried on by   and   and other departments and agencies of  .

d. Develop broad and coordinated plans for the conduct of scientific research in the defense program, in collaboration with representatives of the War and  ; review existing scientific research programs formulated by   and   and other agencies of the Government, and advise them with respect to the relationship of their proposed activities to the total research program.

e. Initiate and support scientific research on the mechanisms and devices of warfare with the objective of creating, developing, and improving instrumentalities, methods, and materials required for national defense.

f. Initiate and support scientific research on medical problems affecting the national defense.

  and support such scientific and medical research as may be requested by the Government of any country whose defense the President deems vital to the defense of   under the terms of the Act of  , entitled "An Act to Promote the Defense of  "; and serve as the central liaison office for the conduct of such scientific and medical research for such countries.

h. Perform such other duties relating to scientific and medical research and development as the President may from time to time assign or delegate to it.

3. The Director may provide for the internal organization and management of   and may appoint such advisory committees as he finds necessary to the performance of his duties and responsibilities. The Director shall obtain the President's approval for the establishment of the principal subdivisions of the agency and the appointment of the heads thereof.

4. In carrying out its functions,   shall utilize the laboratories, equipment, and services of governmental agencies and institutions to the extent that such facilities are available for such purposes. Within the limits of funds appropriated or allocated for purposes encompassed by this  , the Director may contract with and transfer funds to existing governmental agencies and institutions, and may enter into contracts and agreements with individuals, educational and scientific institutions (including   and  ), industrial organizations, and other agencies, for studies, experimental investigations, and reports.

5. The Director is authorized to take over and carry out the provisions of any contracts which fall within the scope of this   heretofore entered into by (1)  , established by order of   on  , (2)  , established by order of   on  , and (3)   in his capacity of  , and other related activities as authorized by order of   on  . The Director is further authorized to assume any obligations or responsibilities which have heretofore been undertaken by the above agencies for and on behalf of   and which fall within the scope of this  .

6. There is created within   consisting of the Director as Chairman, the Chairman of  , the Chairman of   (hereinafter described), the Chairman of   (hereinafter described), one representative of the   to be designated by the Secretary of War, and one representative of the   to be designated by the Secretary of the  . The   shall advise and assist the Director with respect to the coordination of research activities carried on by private and governmental research groups and shall facilitate the interchange of information and data between such groups and agencies.

7. There shall be within   consisting of a Chairman and three other members appointed by the President, and in addition the President of  , the Commissioner of Patents, one officer of the   to be designated by the Secretary of War, one officer of the   to be designated by the Secretary of the  , and such other members as the President may subsequently appoint.   shall advise and assist the Director in the performance of his scientific research duties with special reference to the mobilization of the scientific personnel and resources of the Nation. To this end it shall be the responsibility of the   to recommend to the Director the need for and character of contracts to be entered into with universities, research institutes, and industrial laboratories for research and development on instrumentalities of warfare to supplement such research and development activities of   and the  . Furthermore, the   shall from time to time make findings, and submit recommendations to the Director with respect to the adequacy, progress, and results of research on scientific problems related to national defense.

8. There shall be within   consisting of a Chairman and three members to be appointed by the President, and three other members to be designated respectively by the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the  , and  . The members so designated by the Secretaries of War and   and   shall be selected from the respective staffs of   and     with particular reference to their qualifications in the field of medical research.   shall advise and assist the Director in the performance of his medical research duties with special reference to the mobilization of medical and scientific personnel of the Nation. To this end it shall be the responsibility of the   to recommend to the Director the need for and character of contracts to be entered into with universities, hospitals, and other agencies conducting medical research activities for research and development in the field of the medical sciences. Furthermore, the   shall from time to time, on request by the Director, make findings and submit recommendations with respect to the adequacy, progress, and results of research on medical problems related to national defense.

9. The members of  ,  ,  , and such other committees and subcommittees as the Director may appoint with the approval of the President shall serve as such without compensation, but shall be entitled to necessary and actual transportation, subsistence, and other expenses incidental to the performance of their duties.

10. Within the limits of such funds as may be appropriated to   or as may be allocated to it by the President, the Director may employ necessary personnel and make provision for necessary supplies, facilities, and services. However, the Director shall use such statistical, informational, fiscal, personnel, and other general business services and facilities as may be made available to him through  .
