Whereas

,   has declared that an acute emergency exists by reason of widespread distress and unemployment, disorganization of industry, and the impairment of the agricultural assets supporting the national credit structure, all of which affects the national public interest and welfare, and

Whereas

, in order to meet the said emergency and to provide the relief necessary to protect the general welfare of the people,   has enacted the following acts:

1. The Agricultural Adjustment Act, approved  .

2.  , approved  .

3.   of  , approved  .

4.  , approved  .

5.  , approved  .

6.   of  , approved  .

7. The Emergency Relief and Construction Act of  , approved  .

And Whereas

, in order, effectively and efficiently, to carry out the provisions of said acts it is expedient and necessary that a corporation be organized with such powers and functions as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of said acts.

Now, Therefore

, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by   of  , it is hereby ordered that an agency, to wit, a corporation, under the laws of  , be created, said corporation to be named  .

The governing body of said corporation shall consist of a board of directors composed of eight members, and the following persons, who have been invited and have given their consent to serve, shall be elected by the incorporators as such directors:

 , Secretary of   , Administrator,  

 , Director of  ,  

 , Governor,  

Herman Oliphant,  ,  

 , Assistant to the Directors of  

 , Special Assistant to the Directors of  

Stanley Reed,   of the Directors of  .

The office and principal place of business of said corporation outside   shall be in the city of  , and branch offices may be established in such places within   as the said board of directors shall select and determine by and with the consent of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of  .

The capital stock of such corporation shall consist of 30,000 shares of the par value of $100 each.

The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of   are hereby authorized and directed to cause said corporation to be formed, with such articles or certificate of incorporation, and bylaws, which they shall deem requisite and necessary to define the methods by which said corporation shall conduct its business.

The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of   are authorized and directed to subscribe for all of said capital stock for the use and benefit of  . There is hereby set aside for the purpose of subscribing to the capital stock in said corporation the sum of $3,000,000 out of the appropriation of $100,000,000 authorized by Section 220 of   and made by the Fourth Deficiency Act,  , approved   (Public No. 77,    ).

It is hereby further ordered that any outstanding stock standing in the name of   shall be voted by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of   jointly, or by such person or persons as the said Secretary of   and the Governor of   shall appoint as their joint agent or agents for that purpose. The board of directors (other than the initial board of directors elected by the incorporators) shall be elected, and any vacancies thereon shall be filled by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of   jointly, subject to the approval of the President of  .
