By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by   of  , approved   (Public No. 412, 75th  ), and in order to effectuate the purposes thereof, I hereby transfer to  , effective on  :

1. All right, interest, and title held by   in any housing or slum clearance projects constructed or in the process of construction on the date of enactment of the said Act (except certain portions or parcels of real estate, including easement rights, which   has heretofore reserved for dedication or grant pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of the Act approved  , 49 Stat.  ). Where more than one such project is located within the territorial boundaries of a city, all of the projects in that city shall be treated as a single project of  , without, however, prejudicing the power of the   to make separate sales, leases or other disposition of part or parts of the combined project or to make separate loans, capital grants or   contributions in connection therewith.

2. All assets, contracts, records, applications, libraries, research materials and other property, held by   in connection with housing or slum-clearance projects transferred under paragraph 1 hereof or with housing or slum-clearance activities (except those portions or parcels of real estate reserved for dedication or grant, as aforesaid); provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as impairing or affecting the obligation of   under any contracts transferred hereby.

3. Any unexpended balance of funds allocated to   for the construction of any housing or slum-clearance projects constructed or in the process of construction on the date of enactment of the said Act (except $200,000 of the balance of funds allocated for the construction of the housing projects in   known as   and  ).

4. Such unexpended balances of moneys made available to   for administrative expenses under  ,  , approved   (Public No. 171, 75th  ) as amended by   of  , approved   (Public Res. No.  , 75th  ), as, with the approval of the Director of  ,   shall certify would otherwise have been used by   for administrative expenses.

5. All employees of   who are actually serving on the effective date of this order, and who shall be certified within   from the date of this order, by   as having been engaged in work connected with housing or slum-clearance on or prior to the date of enactment of the said Act; provided that employees transferred pursuant to this   shall not thereby acquire a competitive civil service status, but such employees (except officers, experts and attorneys) who are transferred and whose compensation per annum is $1,980 or less may acquire a competitive civil service status after compliance with the provisions of Section 6 of Rule II of  .
