Whereas

coordinated planning for the most efficient control and use of radio, wire, and cable communication facilities under jurisdiction of   in time of national emergency involves the consideration of the needs for communication of the armed forces of  , of other government agencies, of industry, and of other civilian activities; and

Whereas

such planning must be accomplished as a matter of preparation for national defense; and

Whereas

the interest of national defense in the matter of control and use of communication facilities during any war in which   may become a belligerent is deemed paramount:

Now, Therefore

, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and by the Communications Act of   (48 Stat.  ), as amended, it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby created  ," hereinafter called the  , consisting of the Chairman,  , the Chief Signal Officer of the -Army, the Director of  , the Assistant Secretary of   In charge of  , and the Assistant Secretary of the   in charge of  .

2. The functions of the   shall be, with the requirements of national defense as a primary consideration, to determine, coordinate, and prepare plans for the national defense, which plans will enunciate for and during any national emergency—

a. The needs of the armed forces of  , of other governmental agencies, of industry, and of other civilian activities for radio, wire, and cable communication facilities of all kinds.

b. The allocation of such portions of governmental and non-governmental radio, wire, and cable facilities as may be required to meet the needs of the armed forces, due consideration being given to the needs of other governmental agencies, of industry, and of other civilian activities.

c. The measures of control, the agencies to exercise this control, and the principles under which such control will be exercised over non-military communications to meet defense requirements.

d. The Chairman of   shall be the Chairman of  . In the absence of the designated Chairman, the temporary chairmanship shall devolve upon the remaining members of the   in the following order:

1. The Chief Signal Officer of the   or the Director of  , whichever may be senior in rank.

2. The Chief Signal Officer of the   or the Director of  , whichever may be junior in rank.

3. The Assistant Secretary of   in charge of  .

4. The Assistant Secretary of the   in Charge of  .

In the absence of any regularly designated member, the agency which he represents may be represented by an alternate from that agency, designated by the head thereof, but such alternate shall not serve as Chairman. The Assistant Secretary of the   in Charge of   is designated as the Secretary of the  .

5. The Board shall take no cognizance of matters pertaining to censorship. The   shall study the physical aspects of domestic standard broadcasting and shall recommend such precautions, supplementary facilities and reallocations as it shall deem desirable under foreseeable military conditions. It shall also make plans for the speedy and efficacious use of all necessary facilities in time of military emergency.

6. The   shall appoint such committees as may be necessary to carry out its functions and to provide for continuing studies and for contact with other government agencies and with the civil communication industry.

7. Except as otherwise instructed by the  , committees appointed thereby shall have no power to make final disposition of any matter presented to them by the   for study, but they shall express by written report their findings and recommendations. Minority reports may be submitted if deemed of sufficient importance to warrant further consideration by the  .

8. The   and the committees shall call for consultation such representatives of other government agencies and of the civilian communication industry as may be deemed advisable in obtaining full knowledge of the situation being studied, to the end that the needs of all may be considered and provided for in so far as the situation permits. Other governmental agencies are directed to cooperate in providing assistance required by the   in its studies.

9. During any war in which   is a belligerent, or any national emergency, the existing   shall act as a  , but only in an advisory capacity. While   is so acting as an advisory committee, all of its reports, recommendations, or communications normally prepared for submission to the President shall instead be submitted to the  , for consideration from the standpoint of national defense and for disposition.

10. Reports containing the findings and recommendations of the   shall be submitted to the President for final action through one of his administrative assistants.
