Whereas

, under the treaties of   and the law of nations it is the duty of  , in any war in which   is a neutral, not to permit the commission of unneutral acts within the jurisdiction of  ;

And Whereas

, a proclamation was issued by me on   declaring the neutrality of   in the war now existing between   and  ;  ; and  ,  ,  , and  .

Now, Therefore

, in order to make more effective the enforcement of the provisions of said treaties, law of nations, and proclamation, I hereby prescribe that, during said war, the departments and independent offices and establishments of   shall have the following duties to perform in enforcing the neutrality of  , which duties shall be in addition to the duties now prescribed, or hereafter prescribed, by law, or by other executive order or regulation not in conflict herewith, for the departments and independent offices and establishments of  :

1.

War Department:

Enforcement of the neutrality of   as prescribed in the above-mentioned proclamation so far as concerns the military land forces of neutral and belligerent powers; except as provided in paragraphs numbered 2b and 4 hereof.

2.

Navy Department:

Enforcement of the neutrality of   as prescribed in the above-mentioned proclamation, (a) so far as concerns vessels of the naval establishments of neutral and belligerent powers and other vessels operating for hostile or military purposes, except as provided in paragraph numbered 4 hereof; (b) enforcement of the neutrality of   as prescribed in said proclamation in outlying possessions subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of  ; (c) in  , enforcement of the neutrality of   as respects all vessels as prescribed in said proclamation, with the special cooperation of   and  .

3.

  and Commerce Department:

(Under such further division of responsibility as the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   may mutually agree upon) Enforcement of the neutrality of   as prescribed in the above-mentioned proclamation so far as concerns all vessels except those referred to in paragraph numbered 2 hereof, with the special cooperation of   in the territories and outlying possessions where   and   are required by law to carry out their respective functions, and except in  ,  , and the outlying possessions subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of  .

4.

Governor of the Panama Canal:

Enforcement within the Canal Zone of the neutrality of   as prescribed in the above-mentioned proclamation, and administrative action in connection therewith. The military and naval forces stationed in the Canal Zone shall give him such assistance for this purpose as he may request. If an officer of the   shall be designated to assume authority and jurisdiction over the operation of the Panama Canal as provided in Section 8 of Title 2 of the Canal Zone Code, such officer of the   shall thereafter have the duties above as signed to the Governor of the Panama Canal.

5.

  of the neutrality of   as prescribed in the above-mentioned proclamation, not especially delegated to other departments, independent offices and establishments of  , and prosecution of violations of the neutrality of  .

6.

All Departments and    :

Enforcement of neutrality in connection with their own activities, furnishing information to, and assisting all other departments and independent offices and establishments of   in connection with the duties herein assigned; and issuing rules and regulations necessary for carrying out the duties herein assigned.
