Section 1. Policy. To help keep   competitive, support   talent and creativity, encourage innovation throughout the   economy, and help  , local, territorial, and tribal governments give the  's children and youth the education they need to succeed, it shall be the policy of   to foster greater knowledge of and improved performance in mathematics among   students.

 . 2. Establishment and Mission of Panel. (a) There is hereby established within  )   (Panel).

(b) The Panel shall advise the President and the Secretary of   (Secretary) consistent with this order on means to implement effectively the policy set forth in section 1, including with respect to the conduct, evaluation, and effective use of the results of research relating to proven-effective and evidence-based mathematics instruction.

 . 3. Membership and  . (a) The Panel shall consist of no more than 30 members as follows:

(i) no more than 20 members from among individuals not employed by  , appointed by the Secretary for such terms as the Secretary may specify at the time of appointment; and

(ii) no more than 10 members from among officers and employees of Federal agencies, designated by the Secretary after consultation with the heads of the agencies concerned.

(b) From among the members appointed under paragraph (3)(a)(i) of this order, the Secretary shall designate a Chair of the  .

(c) Subject to the direction of the Secretary,   shall convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and direct the work of subgroups of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of the  .

 . 4. Report to the President on  . In carrying out subsection 2(b) of this order, the   shall submit to the President, through the Secretary, a preliminary report not  , and a final report not later than  . Both reports shall, at a minimum, contain recommendations, based on the best available scientific evidence, on the following:

(a) the critical skills and skill progressions for students to acquire competence in algebra and readiness for higher levels of mathematics;

(b) the role and appropriate design of standards and assessment in promoting mathematical competence;

(c) the processes by which students of various abilities and backgrounds learn mathematics;

(d) instructional practices, programs, and materials that are effective for improving mathematics learning;

(e) the training, selection, placement, and professional development of teachers of mathematics in order to enhance students' learning of mathematics;

(f) the role and appropriate design of systems for delivering instruction in mathematics that combine the different elements of learning processes, curricula, instruction, teacher training and support, and standards, assessments, and accountability;

(g) needs for research in support of mathematics education;

(h) ideas for strengthening capabilities to teach children and youth basic mathematics, geometry, algebra, and calculus and other mathematical disciplines;

(i) such other matters relating to mathematics education as the   deems appropriate; and

(j) such other matters relating to mathematics education as the Secretary may require.

 . 5.  . The Secretary may require the  , in carrying out subsection 2(b) of this order, to submit such additional reports relating to the policy set forth in section 1 as the Secretary deems appropriate.

 . 6.  . (a) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law, including section 103 of   (20 U.S.C. 3403), and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) The   shall provide such administrative support and funding for the   as the Secretary determines appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, and where practicable, agencies shall, upon request by the Secretary, provide assistance to the  .

(c) The Panel shall obtain information and advice as appropriate in the course of its work from:

(i) officers or employees of Federal agencies, unless otherwise directed by the head of the agency concerned;

(ii) State, local, territorial, and tribal officials;

(iii) experts on matters relating to the policy set forth in section 1;

(iv) parents and teachers; and

(v) such other individuals as the   deems appropriate or as the Secretary may direct.

(d) Members of the   who are not officers or employees of   shall serve without compensation and may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(e) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of any portion of this order, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party at law or in equity against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7. Termination. Unless hereafter extended by the President, this   shall terminate   after the date of this order.
