Section 1. Policy. It shall be the policy of   to:

(a) coordinate the activities of executive departments and agencies regarding ocean-related matters in an integrated and effective manner to advance the environmental, economic, and security interests of present and future generations of  ; and

(b) facilitate, as appropriate, coordination and consultation regarding ocean-related matters among  , tribal, local governments, the private sector, foreign governments, and international organizations.

 . 2. Definition. For purposes of this order the term "ocean-related matters" means matters involving the oceans, the Great Lakes, the coasts of   (including its territories and possessions), and related seabed, subsoil, and natural resources.

 . 3. Establishment of Committee on Ocean Policy.

(a) There is hereby established, as a part of   and for administrative purposes only,  ).

(b) The   shall consist exclusively of the following: (i) the Chairman of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  ; (ii) the Secretaries of State,  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy, and  , the Attorney General,  , the Director of  , the Administrator of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the Chairman of  ; (iii) the Assistants to the President for  ,  , Domestic Policy, and Economic Policy; (iv) an employee of   designated by the Vice President; and (v) such other officers or employees of   as the Chairman of the   may from time to time designate.

(c) The Chairman of the  , after coordination with the Assistants to the President for   and  , shall regularly convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and direct subcommittees of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of  . The   shall coordinate its advice in a timely fashion.

(d) A member of the   may designate, to perform the   or subcommittee functions of the member, any person who is within such member's department, agency, or office and who is (i) an officer of   appointed by the President, (ii) a member of   or  , (iii) an officer or employee within   of the President, or (iv) an employee of the Vice President.(e) Consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the funding, including through   as permitted by law and as appropriate, and administrative support for the   necessary to implement this order.

 . 4. Functions of the  . To implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the   shall:

(a) provide advice on establishment or implementation of policies concerning ocean-related matters to: (i) the President; and (ii) the heads of executive departments and agencies from time to time as appropriate;

(b) obtain information and advice concerning ocean-related matters from: (i) State, local, and tribal elected and appointed officials in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation; and (ii) representatives of private entities or other individuals in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation;

(c) at the request of the head of any department or agency who is a member of the  , unless the Chairman of the   declines the request, promptly review and provide advice on a policy or policy implementation action on ocean-related matters proposed by that department or agency;

(d) provide and obtain information and advice to facilitate: (i) development and implementation of common principles and goals for the conduct of governmental activities on ocean-related matters; (ii) voluntary regional approaches with respect to ocean-related matters; (iii) use of science in establishment of policy on ocean-related matters; and (iv) collection, development, dissemination, and exchange of information on ocean-related matters; and

(e) ensure coordinated government development and implementation of the ocean component of  .

 . 5. Cooperation. To the extent permitted by law and applicable presidential guidance, executive departments and agencies shall provide the   such information, support, and assistance as the  , through the Chairman, may request.

 . 6. Coordination. The Chairman of  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for  , and, with respect to the interagency task force established by Executive Order   of  ,  , shall ensure appropriate coordination of the activities of the   under this order and other policy coordination structures relating to ocean or maritime issues pursuant to Presidential guidance.

 . 7.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) authority granted by law to a executive department or agency or the head thereof; or (ii) functions assigned by the President to   or   (including subordinate bodies) relating to matters affecting foreign affairs, national security, homeland security, or intelligence.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.  
