Section 1. Amendment to Executive Order  . Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended to read as follows:

"FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN  

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 721 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. International investment in   promotes economic growth, productivity, competitiveness, and job creation. It is the policy of   to support unequivocally such investment, consistent with the protection of the national security.

 . 2. Definitions. (a) The "Act" as used in this order means section 721 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

(b) Terms used in this order that are defined in subsection 721(a) of the Act shall have the same meaning in this order as they have in such subsection.

(c) "Risk mitigation measure" as used in this order means any provision of a risk mitigation agreement or a condition to which section 7 of this order refers.

 . 3. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established   in   ( ") as provided in the Act.

(b) In addition to the members specified in the Act, the following heads of departments, agencies, or offices shall be members of  (i)  ;

(ii) The Director of  ; and

(iii) The heads of any other executive department, agency, or office, as the President or the Secretary of the   determines appropriate, on a case-by-case basis.

(c) The following officials (or their designees) shall observe and, as appropriate, participate in and report to the President on the  's activities:

(i) The Director of  ;

(ii) The Chairman of  ;

(iii) The Assistant to the President for  ;

(iv) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy; and

(v) The Assistant to the President for   and  .

 . 4. Duties of the Secretary of the  .

(a) The functions of the President under subsections (b)(1)(A) (relating to review and consideration after notification), (b)(1)(D) (relating to unilateral initiation of review and consideration), and (m)(3)(A) (relating to inclusion in   report and designation) of the Act are assigned to the Secretary of the  .

(b) The Secretary of the   shall perform the function of issuance of regulations under section 721(h) of the Act. The Secretary shall consult the   with respect to such regulations prior to any notice and comment and prior to their issuance.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in the Act or this order, the chairperson shall have the authority, exclusive of the heads of departments or agencies, after consultation with  (i) to act, or authorize others to act, on behalf of the  ; and

(ii) to communicate on behalf of the Committee with the   and the public.

(d) The chairperson shall coordinate the preparation of and transmit the annual report to the   provided for in the Act and may assign to any member of the  , as the chairperson determines appropriate and consistent with the Act, responsibility for conducting studies and providing analyses necessary for the preparation of the report.

(e) After consultation with the  , the chairperson may request that the Director of   begin preparing the analysis required by the Act at any time, including prior to acceptance of the notice of a transaction, in accordance with otherwise applicable law. The Director of   shall provide the Director's analysis as soon as possible and consistent with section 721(b)(4) of the Act.

 . 5.  . (a) The lead agency or agencies ("lead agency") shall have primary responsibility, on behalf of the  , for the specific activity for which the Secretary of the   designates it a lead agency.

(b) In acting on behalf of the  , the lead agency shall keep the   fully informed of its activities. In addition, the lead agency shall notify the chairperson of any material action that the lead agency proposes to take on behalf of the  , sufficiently in advance to allow adequate time for the chairperson to consult the   and provide the  's direction to the lead agency not to take, or to amend, such action.

 . 6.   and  .

(a) Any member of the   may conduct its own inquiry with respect to the potential national security risk posed by a transaction, but communication with the parties to a transaction shall occur through or in the presence of the lead agency, or the chairperson if no lead agency has been designated.

(b) The   shall undertake an investigation of a transaction in any case, in addition to the circumstances described in the Act, in which following a review a member of the   advises the chairperson that the member believes that the transaction threatens to impair the national security of   and that the threat has not been mitigated.

(c) The   shall send a report to the President requesting the President's decision with respect to a review or investigation of a transaction in the following circumstances:

(i) the   recommends that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction;

(ii) the   is unable to reach a decision on whether to recommend that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction; or

(iii) the   requests that the President make a determination with regard to the transaction.

(d) Upon completion of a review or investigation of a transaction, the lead agency shall prepare for the approval of the chairperson the appropriate certified notice or report to the   called for under the Act. The chairperson shall transmit such notice or report to the  , as appropriate.

 . 7. Risk Mitigation. (a) The  , or any lead agency acting on behalf of the  , may seek to mitigate any national security risk posed by a transaction that is not adequately addressed by other provisions of law by entering into a mitigation agreement with the parties to a transaction or by imposing conditions on such parties.

(b) Prior to the   or a department or agency proposing risk mitigation measures to the parties to a transaction, the department or agency seeking to propose any such measure shall prepare and provide to the   a written statement that: (1) identifies the national security risk posed by the transaction based on factors including the threat (taking into account the Director of   threat analysis), vulnerabilities, and potential consequences; and (2) sets forth the risk mitigation measures the department or agency believes are reasonably necessary to address the risk. If the   agrees that mitigation is appropriate and approves the risk mitigation measures, the lead agency shall seek to negotiate such measures with the parties to the transaction.

(c) A risk mitigation measure shall not, except in extraordinary circumstances, require that a party to a transaction recognize, state its intent to comply with, or consent to the exercise of any authorities under existing provisions of law.

(d) The lead agency designated for the purpose of monitoring a risk mitigation measure shall seek to ensure that adequate resources are available for such monitoring. When designating a lead agency for those purposes, the Secretary of the   shall consider the agency's views on the adequacy of its resources for such purposes.

(e)(i) Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the ability of a department or agency, in the exercise of authorities other than those provided under the Act, to:

(A) conduct inquiries with respect to a transaction;

(B) communicate with the parties to a transaction; or

(C) negotiate, enter into, impose, or enforce contractual provisions with the parties to a transaction.

(ii) A department or agency shall not condition actions or the exercise of authorities to which paragraph (i) of this subsection refers upon the exercise, or forbearance in the exercise, of its authority under the Act or this order, and no authority under the Act shall be available for the enforcement of such actions or authorities.

(f) The   may initiate a review of a transaction that has previously been reviewed by the   only in the extraordinary circumstances provided in the Act.

 . 8. Additional Assignments to the  . In addition to the functions assigned to the   by the Act, the   shall review the implementation of the Act and this order and report thereon from time to time to the President, together with such recommendations for policy, administrative, or legislative proposals as the   determines appropriate.

 . 9. Duties of the Secretary of  . The Secretary of Commerce shall:

(a) obtain, consolidate, and analyze information on foreign investment in  ;

(b) monitor and, where necessary, improve procedures for the collection and dissemination of information on foreign investment in  ;

(c) prepare for the public, the President or heads of departments or agencies, as appropriate, reports, analyses of trends, and analyses of significant developments in appropriate categories of foreign investment in  ; and

(d) compile and evaluate data on significant transactions involving foreign investment in  .

 . 10.  . (a) The heads of departments and agencies shall provide, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, such information and assistance as the   may request to implement the Act and this order.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency or the head thereof;

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) existing mitigation agreements.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) Officers of   with authority or duties under the Act or this order shall ensure that, in carrying out the Act and this order, the actions of departments, agencies, and the   are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to: (i) conduct the foreign affairs of  ; (ii) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties; (iii) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary and expedient; and (iv) supervise the unitary executive branch.

 . 11. Revocation. Section 801 of Executive Order  , is revoked."

Sec. 2. General Provision. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
