Section 1. Pursuant to section 202 of the   (  1622), termination of the national emergencies declared in Executive Order  , and Executive Order  , shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the effective date of this order, or any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to such date, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to such date. Pursuant to section 207 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.  ), I hereby determine that the continuation of prohibitions with regard to transactions involving any property blocked pursuant to Executive Orders   or   that continues to be blocked as of the effective date of this order is necessary on account of claims involving successor states to the former   or other potential claimants.

 . 2. The   to Executive Order   of  , is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the   to this order.

 . 3. (a) Section 1(a) and 1(b) of Executive Order   are revised to read as follows:

"Section 1. (a) Except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)), and   of 2000 ( , Public Law 106–387), and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all property and interests in property of:

(i)

the persons listed in the   to this order; and

(ii)

persons designated by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , because they are determined:

(A)

to be under open indictment by   for the former  , unless circumstances warrant otherwise, or

(B)

to have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, acts of violence that have the purpose or effect of threatening the peace in or diminishing the stability or security of any area or state in the Western Balkans region, undermining the authority, efforts, or objectives of international organizations or entities present in the region, or endangering the safety of persons participating in or providing support to the activities of those international organizations or entities, or

(C)

to have actively obstructed, or pose a significant risk of actively obstructing, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of   relating to  ,   Resolution 1244 relating to  , or the Dayton Accords or   held in   on  , including the decisions or conclusions of  ,   or its  , relating to  , or

(D)

to have materially assisted in, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, such acts of violence or obstructionism or any person listed in or designated pursuant to this order, or

(E)

to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any person

listed in or designated pursuant to this order, that are or hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by or to persons determined to be subject to the sanctions imposed under this order would seriously impair the ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and hereby prohibit such donations as provided in paragraph (a) of this section."

 . 4. New sections 7 and 8 are added to Executive Order   to read as follows:

"Sec. 7. For those persons listed in the   to this order or determined to be subject to the sanctions imposed under this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I have determined that, because of the ability to transfer funds or assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render these measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

 . 8. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to determine, subsequent to the issuance of this order, that circumstances no longer warrant inclusion of a person in the   to this order and that such person is therefore no longer covered within the scope of the sanctions set forth herein. Such a determination shall become effective upon publication in  ."

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order and, where appropriate, to advise the Secretary of the   in a timely manner of the measures taken.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .
