Section 1. Policy. The Great Lakes are a national treasure constituting the largest freshwater system in the world.   and   have made great progress addressing past and current environmental impacts to the   ecology.   is committed to making progress on the many significant challenges that remain. Along with numerous  , tribal, and local programs, over 140 Federal programs help fund and implement environmental restoration and management activities throughout the Great Lakes system. A number of intergovernmental bodies are providing leadership in the region to address environmental and resource management issues in the Great Lakes system. These activities would benefit substantially from more systematic collaboration and better integration of effort. It is the policy of   to support local and regional efforts to address environmental challenges and to encourage local citizen and community stewardship. To this end,   will partner with the Great Lakes States, tribal and local governments, communities, and other interests to establish a regional collaboration to address nationally significant environmental and natural resource issues involving the Great Lakes. It is the further policy of   that its executive departments and agencies will ensure that their programs are funding effective, coordinated, and environmentally sound activities in the Great Lakes system.

 . 2. Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a)

"Great Lakes" means  ,  ,   (including Lake Saint Clair), Lake Michigan, and Lake Superior, and the connecting channels (Saint Marys River, Saint Clair River,  , Niagara River, and   to  ).

(b)

"Great Lakes system" means all the streams, rivers, lakes, and other bodies of water within the drainage basin of the Great Lakes.

 . 3.  .

(a) Task Force Purpose. To further the policy described in section 1 of this order, there is established, within   for administrative purposes, the "Great Lakes Interagency Task Force" (Task Force) to:

(i)

Help convene and establish a process for collaboration among the members of   and the members of   that is established in paragraph b(ii) of this section, with the Great Lakes States, local communities, tribes, regional bodies, and other interests in the Great Lakes region regarding policies, strategies, plans, programs, projects, activities, and priorities for the Great Lakes system.

(ii)

Collaborate with   and its provinces and with bi-national bodies involved in the Great Lakes region regarding policies, strategies, projects, and priorities for the Great Lakes system.

(iii) Coordinate the development of consistent Federal policies, strategies, projects, and priorities for addressing the restoration and protection of the Great Lakes system and assisting in the appropriate management of the Great Lakes system.

(iv) Develop outcome-based goals for the Great Lakes system relying upon, among other things, existing data and science-based indicators of water quality and related environmental factors. These goals shall focus on outcomes such as cleaner water, sustainable fisheries, and biodiversity of the Great Lakes system and ensure that Federal policies, strategies, projects, and priorities support measurable results.

(v)

Exchange information regarding policies, strategies, projects, and activities of the agencies represented on   related to the Great Lakes system.

(vi)

Work to coordinate government action associated with the Great Lakes system.

(vii) Ensure coordinated Federal scientific and other research associated with the Great Lakes system.

(viii) Ensure coordinated government development and implementation of the Great Lakes portion of  .

(ix)

Provide assistance and support to agencies represented on   in their activities related to the Great Lakes system.

(x)

Submit a report to the President by  , and thereafter as appropriate, that summarizes the activities of   and provides any recommendations that would, in the judgment of  , advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(b)

Membership and Operation.

(i)

The Task Force shall consist exclusively of the following officers of  : the Administrator of   (who shall chair the Task Force), the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Chairman of  . A member of   may designate, to perform the Task Force functions of the

member, any person who is part of the member's department, agency, or office and who is either an officer of   appointed by the President or a full-time employee serving in a position with pay equal to or greater than the minimum rate payable for GS–15 of the General Schedule. The Task Force shall report to the President through the Chairman of  .

(ii) The Task Force shall establish a "Great Lakes Regional Working Group" ( ) composed of the appropriate regional administrator or director with programmatic responsibility for the Great Lakes system for each agency represented on   including:  ;   Fish and  ,  , and   within  ;   and    ;   of  ;  ;  ;   within  ; and   within  .   will coordinate and make recommendations on how to implement the policies, strategies, projects, and priorities of  .

(c) Management Principles for Regional Collaboration of National Significance. To further the policy described in section 1, the Task Force shall recognize and apply key principles and foster conditions to ensure successful collaboration. To that end,   will coordinate the development of a set of principles of successful collaboration.

 . 4.  .  

fice of   shall assist the Task Force and   in the performance of their functions.   Manager shall serve as chair of  .

 . 5.  . Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, regulatory, and legislative proposals. Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect the statutory authority or obligations of any Federal agency or any bi-national agreement with  .

 . 6.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.  
