Section 1. Policy. The increased production and transmission of energy in a safe and environmentally sound manner is essential to the well-being of the   people. In general, it is the policy of this Administration that executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take appropriate actions, to the extent consistent with applicable law, to expedite projects that will increase the production, transmission, or conservation of energy.

 . 2. Actions to  . For energy-related projects, agencies shall expedite their review of permits or take other actions as necessary to accelerate the completion of such projects, while maintaining safety, public health, and environmental protections. The agencies shall take such actions to the extent permitted by law and regulation, and where appropriate.

 . 3. Interagency Task Force. There is established an interagency task force (Task Force) to monitor and assist the agencies in their efforts to expedite their review of permits or similar actions, as necessary, to accelerate the completion of energy-related projects, increase energy production and conservation, and improve transmission of energy.   also shall monitor

and assist agencies in setting up appropriate mechanisms to coordinate  , tribal, and local permitting in geographic areas where increased permitting activity is expected. The Task Force shall be composed of representatives from  , the  ,  ,  ,  ,  , the Interior,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and such other representatives as may be determined by the Chairman of  . The Task Force shall be chaired by the Chairman of   and housed at   for administrative purposes.

 . 4.  . Nothing in this order shall affect any otherwise available judicial review of agency action. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
