Section 1. Policy It is the policy of   to establish and maintain a national air transportation system that meets the present and future civil aviation, homeland security, economic, environmental protection, and national defense needs of  , including through effective implementation of   (NextGen).

 . 2. Definitions As used in this order the term "Next Generation Air Transportation System" means the system to which section 709 of the Vision 100--Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act (Public Law 108-176) (Act) refers.

 . 3. Functions of the Secretary of   with sections 709 and 710 of the Act and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(a) take such action within the authority of the Secretary, and recommend as appropriate to the President such action as is within the authority of the President, to implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order and in particular to implement the   in a safe, secure, timely, environmentally sound, efficient, and effective manner;

(b) convene  , unless the Secretary determines that meeting less often is consistent with effective implementation of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order,   established pursuant to section 710 of the Act (Committee);

(c) not   after the date of this order, establish within   a support staff (Staff), including employees from departments and agencies assigned pursuant to subsection 4(e) of this order, to support, as directed by the Secretary, the Secretary and the   in the performance of their duties relating to the policy set forth in section 1 of this order; and

(d) not   after the date of this order, establish an advisory committee to provide advice to the Secretary and, through the Secretary, the   concerning the implementation of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, including aviation-related subjects and any related performance measures specified by the Secretary, pursuant to section 710 of the Act.

 . 4. Functions of Other Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies Consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order:

(a) the Secretary of   shall assist the Secretary of   by:

(i) collaborating, as appropriate, and verifying that the   meets the national defense needs of   consistent with the policies and plans established under applicable Presidential guidance; and

(ii) furnishing, as appropriate, data streams to integrate national defense capabilities of   civil and military systems relating to the national air transportation system, and coordinating the development of requirements and capabilities to address tracking and other activities relating to non-cooperative aircraft in consultation with the Secretary of  , as appropriate;

(b) the Secretary of Commerce shall:

(i) develop and make available, as appropriate, the capabilities of  , including those relating to aviation weather and spectrum management, to support the  ; and

(ii) take appropriate account of the needs of the   in the trade, commerce, and other activities of  , including those relating to the development and setting of standards;

(c) the Secretary of   shall assist the Secretary of   by ensuring that:

(i) the   includes the aviation-related security capabilities necessary to ensure the security of persons, property, and activities within   system consistent with the policies and plans established under applicable Presidential guidance; and

(ii)   shall continue to carry out all statutory and assigned responsibilities relating to aviation security, border security, and critical infrastructure protection in consultation with the Secretary of  , as appropriate;

(d) the Administrator of   shall carry out the Administrator's duties under Executive Order  , in a manner consistent with that order and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order;

(e) the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide to the Secretary of Transportation such information and assistance, including personnel and other resources for the Staff to which subsection 3(c) of this order refers, as may be necessary and appropriate to implement this order as agreed to by the heads of the departments and agencies involved; and

(f) the Director of   may issue such instructions as may be necessary to implement subsection 5(b) of this order.

 . 5.   of   In addition to performing the functions specified in section 710 of the Act, the   shall:

(a) report not less often than   to the President, through the Secretary of  , on progress made and projected to implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, together with such recommendations including performance measures for administrative or other action as the   determines appropriate;

(b) review the proposals by the heads of executive departments and agencies to the Director of   with respect to programs affecting the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, and make recommendations including performance measures thereon, through the Secretary of  , to the Director; and

(c) advise the Secretary of   and, through the Secretary of  , the Secretaries of Defense, Commerce, and  , and the Administrator of  , with respect to the activities of their departments and agencies in the implementation of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 6.   (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
