Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to provide effective, integrated, and fiscally responsible support from across   to support  , local, and tribal governments, the private sector, and faith-based and other community humanitarian relief organizations in the recovery and rebuilding of the Gulf Coast region affected by Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita ( ").

 . 2. Establishment of Coordinator. The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall establish in   the position of  ). The Coordinator shall be selected by the President and shall be appointed by and report directly to the Secretary. The Secretary shall make available to the Coordinator such personnel, funds, and other resources as may be appropriate to enable the Coordinator to carry out the Coordinator's mission.

 . 3. Mission and Functions of Coordinator. (a) The Coordinator's mission shall be to work with executive departments and agencies to ensure the proper implementation of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order by coordinating  . The Coordinator shall be the principal point of contact for the President and his senior advisors with respect to  .

(b) Working with the input of all appropriate heads of executive departments and agencies, the Coordinator shall lead the process to develop the principles governing and define the goals of  . The Coordinator shall communicate those principles and goals to all   officials involved in  .

(c) Working with the input of all appropriate heads of executive departments and agencies, the Coordinator shall lead the development and monitor the implementation of the specific policies and programs that constitute  , and ensure that those polices and programs are consistent with the principles and goals of  .

(d) The Coordinator shall serve as the primary point of contact within the executive branch with the  ,   and local governments, the private sector, and community leaders regarding  . Working with the input of all appropriate heads of executive departments and agencies, the Coordinator shall be responsible for managing information flow, requests for actions, and discussions regarding   with the  ,   and local governments, the private sector, and community leaders.

 . 4. Duties of  . Heads of executive departments and agencies shall respond promptly to any request by the Coordinator, and shall, consistent with applicable law, provide such information as the Coordinator deems necessary to carry out the Coordinator's mission, and shall otherwise cooperate with the Coordinator to the greatest extent practicable to facilitate the performance of the Coordinator's mission.

 . 5.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) the chain of command over   provided in section 162(b) of title 10, United States Code.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law, subject to the availability of appropriations, and shall terminate   from the date of this order.

(c) As used in this order, the term "agency" has the meaning set forth for the term "executive agency" in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, excluding  .

(d) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.
