Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of   to provide effective, integrated, and fiscally responsible support from across   to support  , local, and tribal governments, the private sector, and faith-based and other community humanitarian relief organizations in the recovery and rebuilding of the Gulf Coast region affected by Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita.

 . 2. Establishment. (a) There is established, within   of the President, the Gulf Coast Recovery and Rebuilding Council (the "Council"). The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall serve as the Chairman of   (the "Chairman"). The   shall consist exclusively of the following members or full-time Federal officers or employees designated by them, respectively:

(i) Secretary of the  ;

(ii) Secretary of  ;

(iii) Attorney General;

(iv) Secretary of the  ;

(v) Secretary of  ;

(vi) Secretary of  ;

(vii) Secretary of  ;

(viii) Secretary of  ;

(ix) Secretary of  ;

(x) Secretary of  ;

( ) Secretary of  ;

(xii) Secretary of  ;

(xiii) Secretary of  ;

( ) Secretary of  ;

(xv) Administrator of  ;

(xvi) Chairman of  ;

(  Administrator of  ;

(xviii) Director of  ;

(xix) Coordinator of Federal Support for the Recovery and Rebuilding of the Gulf Coast Region;

(xx) Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xxi) Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xxii) Assistant to the President for   and  ; and

(xxiii) Such other officers and employees of the executive branch as the Chairman may from time to time designate.

(b) The Chairman, in consultation with the Coordinator, shall convene and preside over meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to particular subject matters, establish and direct subgroups of the  , which shall consist of   members or their designees under subsection 2(a) of this order, and including those officers and employees of the executive branch as designated by the Chairman.

 . 3.  . The   shall:

(a) at the request of the Chairman,  , or any agency head who is a member of the   (subject to the approval of the Chairman), promptly review and provide advice and guidance, for the purpose of furthering the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, regarding any issue relating to the implementation of that policy;

(b) make recommendations to the President, as appropriate, regarding any issue considered by the   pursuant to section 3(a) of this order; and

(c) give no vote or veto over the activities or advice of the   to any individual to whom subsection (b) of this section refers.

 . 4. General. (a) To the extent permitted by law:

(i) agencies shall assist and provide information to the   for the performance of its functions under this order; and

(ii) the Director of   shall provide or arrange for the provision of administrative support to the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 5. Termination. The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.
