Section 1. Policy. To the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, agencies shall, in the design and use of information systems and in the dissemination of information among agencies:

(a) give the highest priority to (i) the detection, prevention, disruption, preemption, and mitigation of the effects of terrorist activities against the territory, people, and interests of  ; (ii) the interchange of terrorism information among agencies; (iii) the interchange of terrorism information between agencies and appropriate authorities of  , local, and tribal governments, and between agencies and appropriate private sector entities; and (iv) the protection of the ability of agencies to acquire additional such information; and

(b) protect the freedom, information privacy, and other legal rights of   in the conduct of activities implementing subsection (a).

 . 2. Duties of   or Acquiring Terrorism Information. To implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the head of each agency that possesses or acquires terrorism information:

(a) shall promptly give access to the terrorism information to the head of each other agency that has counterterrorism functions, and provide the terrorism information to each such agency, unless otherwise directed by the President, and consistent with (i) the statutory responsibilities of the agencies providing and receiving the information; (ii) any guidance issued by the Attorney General to fulfill the policy set forth in subsection 1(b) of this order; and (iii) other applicable law, including sections 102A(g) and (i) of the National Security Act of  , section 1016 of   of   (including any policies, procedures, guidelines, rules, and standards issued pursuant thereto), sections 202 and 892 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Executive Order   of  , as amended, and Executive Order  ; and

(b) shall cooperate in and facilitate production of reports based on terrorism information with contents and formats that permit dissemination that maximizes the utility of the information in protecting the territory, people, and interests of  .

 . 3. Preparing Terrorism Information for Maximum Distribution. To assist in expeditious and effective implementation by agencies of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the common standards for the sharing of terrorism information established pursuant to section 3 of Executive Order 13356 of  , shall be used, as appropriate, in carrying out section 1016 of   of  .

 . 4. Requirements for Collection of Terrorism Information Inside  . To assist in expeditious and effective implementation by agencies of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the recommendations regarding the establishment of executive branch-wide collection and sharing requirements, procedures, and guidelines for terrorism information collected within   made pursuant to section 4 of Executive Order   shall be used, as appropriate, in carrying out section 1016 of   of  .

 . 5. Establishment and Functions of Information Sharing Council. (a) Consistent with section 1016(g) of   of  , there is hereby established an  ), chaired by the   Manager to whom section 1016 of such Act refers, and composed exclusively of designees of: the Secretaries of State, the  ,  , and  ; the Attorney General; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; and such other heads of departments or agencies as the Director of   may designate.

(b) The mission of the   is to (i) provide advice and information concerning the establishment of an interoperable terrorism information sharing environment to facilitate automated sharing of terrorism information among appropriate agencies to implement the policy set forth in section 1 of this order; and (ii) perform the duties set forth in  ) of   of  .

(c) To assist in expeditious and effective implementation by agencies of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the plan for establishment of a proposed interoperable terrorism information sharing environment reported under section 5(c) of Executive Order   shall be used, as appropriate, in carrying out section 1016 of   of  .

 . 6. Definitions. As used in this order:

(a) the term "agency" has the meaning set forth for the term "executive agency" in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, together with  , but includes   and   and excludes  ; and

(b) the term "terrorism information" has the meaning set forth for such term in  ) of   of  .

 . 7.  . (a) This order:

(i) shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law, including   law protecting the information privacy and other legal rights of  , and subject to the availability of appropriations;

(ii) shall be implemented in a manner consistent with the authority of the principal officers of agencies as heads of their respective agencies, including under section 199 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C.  ), section 201 of   (42 U.S.C.  ), section 103 of the National Security Act of   (50 U.S.C. 403-3), section 102(a) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 112(a)), and sections 301 of title 5, 113(b) and 162(b) of title   of title 15, 503 of title 28, and 301(b) of title  , United States Code;

(iii) shall be implemented consistent with  , on "Strengthening Information Sharing, Access, and  , and   for Creating the Terrorism Information Sharing Environment;"

(iv) shall not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budget, administrative, and legislative proposals; and

(v) shall be implemented in a manner consistent with section 102A of the National Security Act of  .

(b) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of   and is not intended to, and does not, create any rights or benefits, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against  , its departments, agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 8. Amendments and Revocation. (a) Executive Order  , is amended:

(i) by striking "Director of Central Intelligence" each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof in each such place "Director of National Intelligence"; and

(ii) by striking "103(c)(7)" and inserting in lieu thereof "102A(i)(1)".

(b) Executive Order 13356 of  , is hereby revoked.
