Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a)

Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b)

 ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(c)

President's   for    ; Executive   ( ).

(d)

President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order  , as amended, ( ).

(e)

President's   on   and Universities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(f)

President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g)

President's Committee on the   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(h)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(i)

President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j)

President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(k)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(l)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(m)

President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n)

Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order   ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following  , or sections thereof, which established committees that have terminated and whose work is completed, are revoked:

(a) Sections 3 and 4 of Executive Order   pertaining to the establishment and administration of   Bioenergy, superseded by   established pursuant to section 306 of   of 2000 (Title III of Public Law 106-224);

(b)

Executive Order  , establishing  ;

(c)

Executive Order  , as amended by Executive Order  , establishing   on   in   History;

(d)

Executive Order  , establishing   in Communities Dependent on Tobacco Production While Protecting Public Health; and

(e)

Executive Order  , establishing     and  .

 . 4. Sections 1 through 4 of Executive   are superseded.  . 5. This order shall be effective  .
