Section 1. To provide additional authority to   and   to respond to the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks on  , the authority under title 10, United States Code, to order any unit, and any member of   not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, in   to active duty for not more than  , is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary concerned, subject in the case of the Secretaries of the  ,  , and  , to the direction of the Secretary of  . The term "Secretary concerned" is defined in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code, to mean the Secretary of the   with respect to the  ; the Secretary of the   with respect to the  ,  , and   when it is operating as a service in the  ; the Secretary of   with respect to  ; and the Secretary of   with respect to   when it is not operating as a service in the  .

 . 2. To allow for the orderly administration of personnel within the armed forces, the following authorities vested in the President are hereby invoked to the full extent provided by the terms thereof: section 527 of title 10, United States Code, to suspend the operation of sections 523, 525, and 526 of that title, regarding officer and warrant officer strength and distribution; and sections 123,  , and   of title 10, United States Code, to suspend certain laws relating to promotion, involuntary retirement, and separation of commissioned officers; end strength limitations; and   component officer strength limitations.

 . 3. To allow for the orderly administration of personnel within the armed forces, the authorities vested in the President by sections 331, 359, and 367 of title  ,   Code, relating to the authority to order to active duty certain officers and enlisted members of   and to detain enlisted members, are invoked to the full extent provided by the terms thereof.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered, without the approval, ratification, or other action by the President, to exercise the authority vested in the President by sections 123,  , 527, and   of title 10, United States Code, as invoked by sections 2 and 3 of this order.

 . 5. The Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered, without the approval, ratification, or other action by the President, to exercise the authority vested in sections 331, 359, and 367 of title  , United States Code, when   is not serving as part of the  , as invoked by section 2 of this order, to recall any regular officer or enlisted member on the retired list to active duty and to detain any enlisted member beyond the term of his or her enlistment.

 . 6. The authority delegated by this order to the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may be redelegated and further subdelegated to civilian subordinates who are appointed to their offices by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  .

 . 7. Based upon my determination under 10 U.S.C. 2201(c) that it is necessary to increase (subject to limits imposed by law) the number of members of the armed forces on active duty beyond the number for which funds are provided in appropriation Acts for  , the Secretary of   may provide for the cost of such additional members as an excepted expense under section 11(a) of title 41, United States Code.

 . 8. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch, and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 . 9. This order is effective immediately and shall be promptly transmitted to the   and published in  .  
