116 SCON 49 IS: Mandating procedures to ensure adequate precautions against COVIDГўВҖВ“19 in Senate buildings.
U.S. Senate
2020-10-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
116th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 49
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 5, 2020
Mr. Kaine
(for
Mr. Schumer
(for himself and
Ms. Klobuchar
)) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Mandating procedures to ensure adequate precautions against COVIDГўВҖВ“19 in Senate buildings.
Whereas, on March 13, 2020, the COVIDГўВҖВ“19 outbreak in the United States was declared a national emergency under the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.);
Whereas, as of August 7, 2020, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hasГўВҖВ”
(1)
recommended
that people wear masks in public settings and when around people who donГўВҖВҷt live in [their] household, especially when other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
; and
(2)
stated that
masks may help prevent people who have COVIDГўВҖВ“19 from spreading the virus to others
and
masks are most likely to reduce the spread of COVIDГўВҖВ“19 when they are widely used by people in public settings.
;
Whereas, as of October 5, 2020, nearly 7,500,000 people in the United States had contracted COVIDГўВҖВ“19, and nearly 210,000 people in the United States have died as a result of COVIDГўВҖВ“19;
Whereas the United States accounts for approximately 4.25 percent of the worldГўВҖВҷs population but, as of October 5, 2020, people in the United States account for over 20 percent of those killed by COVIDГўВҖВ“19 globally; and
Whereas the Senate has seen an increase in the number of Senators diagnosed with COVIDГўВҖВ“19: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress thatГўВҖВ”
(1)
it is essential to the continuity of government that the United States Government and officials adhere to public health guidance in order to combat the spread of COVIDГўВҖВ“19; and
(2)
the absence of a coordinated and comprehensive COVIDГўВҖВ“19 strategy in the Senate is a threat to the legislative branch.
2.
Procedures for COVIDГўВҖВ“19 protection
(a)
Definitions
In this sectionГўВҖВ”
(1)
the term
Senate building
means any Senate Office Building or the Senate Wing of the Capitol; and
(2)
the term
Senate worker
meansГўВҖВ”
(A)
an employee whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate; or
(B)
an employee of a contractor of an office or agency in the legislative branch whose regular duty station is in a Senate building.
(b)
Mask use
All individuals shall wear a mask while in any public area of a Senate building. The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate shall issue guidance or regulations to carry out this subsection.
(c)
Adherence to social distancing guidelines
All individuals shall adhere to guidance and recommendations of the Office of the Attending Physician with respect to social distancing while in a Senate building.
(d)
Testing and contact tracing program
The Office of the Attending Physician, Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretary of the Senate, in consultation with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Department of Health of the District of Columbia, shall develop and implement a program to conductГўВҖВ”
(1)
COVIDГўВҖВ“19 testing ofГўВҖВ”
(A)
Senators; and
(B)
Senate workers who will be physically present in a Senate building in connection with the duties of the Senate worker; and
(2)
contact tracing with respect to any Senator or Senate worker who tests positive for COVIDГўВҖВ“19.
