Whereas November 8 honors the anniversary of the signing of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
) by President Lyndon B. Johnson on November 8, 1965;
Whereas the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
) was focused on increasing postsecondary access and success for students, particularly including low-income and first-generation students;
Whereas the Act helped usher in programs necessary for postsecondary access, retention, and completion for low-income, first-generation college students, including the Federal TRIO Programs under chapter 1 of subpart 2 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a–11 et seq.
) and the Federal Pell Grant program under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a
);
Whereas the Federal TRIO Programs under chapter 1 of subpart 2 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a–11 et seq.
) are the primary national effort supporting underrepresented students in postsecondary education and are designed to identify individuals from low-income, first-generation backgrounds and prepare them for postsecondary education, provide support services, and motivate and prepare students for doctoral programs;
Whereas the Federal Pell Grant program under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070a
) is the primary Federal investment in financial aid for low-income college students, and is used by students at institutions of higher education of their choice;
Whereas a
first-generation college student
means an individual whose parents did not complete a baccalaureate degree, or in the case of any individual who regularly resided with and received support from only one parent, an individual whose parent did not complete a baccalaureate degree;
Whereas first-generation college students may face additional academic, financial, and social challenges that their peers do not face in pursuing higher education;
Whereas 56 percent of all current college students currently pursuing degrees are first-generation;
Whereas the Council for Opportunity in Education and the Center for First-generation Student Success jointly launched the inaugural First-Generation College Celebration in 2017; and
Whereas the First-Generation College Celebration has continued to grow, and institutions of higher education, corporations, nonprofits, and elementary schools and secondary schools now celebrate November 8 as First-Generation College Celebration Day: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives urges all people in the United States to—
(1)
celebrate
National First-Generation College Celebration Day
throughout the United States;
(2)
recognize the important role that first-generation college students play in helping to develop the future workforce; and
(3)
celebrate the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
) and its programs that help underrepresented students access higher education.
