2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7910) to amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for an increased age limit on the purchase of certain firearms, prevent gun trafficking, modernize the prohibition on untraceable firearms, encourage the safe storage of firearms, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117–48 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) two hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; (2) proceedings under section 3 of this resolution; and (3) one motion to recommit.
3.
The proceedings referred to in section 2 of this resolution are as follows:
(a)
after debate pursuant to section 2 of this resolution, the Chair shall put the question on retaining each title of the bill, as amended, in the order specified by the Chair;
(b)
the yeas and nays shall be considered as ordered on each of the questions under subsection (a); and
(c)
after disposition of the questions under subsection (a), the Chair shall put the question on engrossment and third reading of the text comprising those portions of the bill retained pursuant to subsection (a).
4.
In the engrossment of H.R. 7910, the Clerk shall conform title and section numbers and make related corrections to cross-references in the event a portion of the bill is not retained pursuant to section 3 of this resolution.
5.
House Resolution 1151 is hereby adopted.
6.
House Resolution 1152 is hereby adopted.
7.
House Resolution 188, agreed to March 8, 2021 (as most recently amended by House Resolution 1097, agreed to May 10, 2022), is amended by striking “June 10, 2022” each place it appears and inserting (in each instance) “June 17, 2022”.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
