119 SRES 578 ATS: Congratulating the University of Washington men’s soccer team on winning the 2025 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 Men’s Soccer National Championship.
U.S. Senate
2026-01-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 578
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 8 (legislative day, January 7), 2026
Ms. Cantwell
(for herself and
Mrs. Murray
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the University of Washington men’s soccer team on winning the 2025 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 Men’s Soccer National Championship.
Whereas, on December 15, 2025, the University of Washington Huskies men’s soccer team (the
Washington Huskies
) secured a 3–2 overtime win against No. 15 seed North Carolina State to win the national championship before an estimated 10,000 fans;
Whereas this win marks the first national title in program history;
Whereas, during the 2025 playoffs, the Washington Huskies defeated the Oregon State Beavers, the Southern Methodist University Mustangs, the Stanford Cardinal, the Maryland Terrapins, and the Furman Paladins, before defeating the North Carolina State Wolfpack in the championship game to win the College Cup;
Whereas Zach Ramsey and Joe Dale scored the 2 goals during regulation time and Harrison
Harry
Bertos scored the winning goal for the Washington Huskies during overtime in the championship game;
Whereas every member of the Washington Huskies men’s soccer team contributed to the successful 2025 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I National Championship season and the championship match;
Whereas the coaches and staff of the Washington Huskies men’s soccer team played a vital role in the success of the Washington Huskies during the 2025 season;
Whereas the Washington Huskies overcame a 3-game losing streak at the end of the regular season to win all 6 of their NCAA tournament games away from home, becoming the first team to win 6 road matches in the tournament; and
Whereas the Washington Huskies showed immense strength, resilience, and teamwork to win the national championship: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the University of Washington men’s soccer team for an incredible season and for winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 Men’s Soccer National Championship;
(2)
recognizes the achievements of all players, coaches, and staff who contributed to the team’s success; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
Jamie Clark, head coach;
(B)
Patrick Chun, athletic director; and
(C)
Dr. Robert J. Jones, president of the University of Washington.
