1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Accounting for the Uses, Disbursements, and Income on our Taxes at EPA Act of 2024
or the
AUDIT EPA Act of 2024
.
2.
Audits of EPA programs and activities relating to air pollution
The Clean Air Act is amended by inserting after section 311 (
42 U.S.C. 7611
) the following:
311A.
Audits
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, and every year thereafter for a period of 6 years, the Administrator shall provide for an audit of the programs and activities of the Environmental Protection Agency under this Act and other applicable authorities relating to air pollution.
(b)
Audit requirements
Each audit under this section shall—
(1)
be conducted in an objective manner by an independent party outside of the Environmental Protection Agency;
(2)
be conducted in compliance with the International Professional Practices Framework and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, published by the Institute of Internal Auditors; and
(3)
meet generally accepted government auditing standards.
(c)
Representative sample of funding recipients
Each audit under this section shall include an audit of a representative sample of programs and activities carried out by recipients and subrecipients through funds received through grants, cooperative agreements, and loans from the Environmental Protection Agency during the period covered by the audit.
(d)
Reports to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the completion of each audit under this section, the Administrator shall submit a report containing the results of such audit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, the Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Comptroller General of the United States.
(2)
Contents
Each report under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
be disaggregated by category, including—
(i)
the disbursement of financial awards directly or indirectly by the Administrator;
(ii)
operation and management of programs;
(iii)
development and issuance of regulations;
(iv)
compliance assistance;
(v)
enforcement activities; and
(vi)
other related activities; and
(B)
identify each recipient and subrecipient of a grant, cooperative agreement, or loan from the Environmental Protection Agency during the period covered by the audit.
(e)
Amounts authorized
For the purpose of implementing this section, the Administrator is authorized, in each relevant fiscal year, to use amounts made available to the Administrator in that fiscal year in the account entitled
Environmental Protection Agency—Environmental Programs and Management
.
.
