1.
Designation of bald eagle as national bird
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Bald eagles are a historical symbol of the United States representing independence, strength, and freedom.
(2)
The bald eagle is unique to North America.
(3)
The bald eagle was adopted as the Coat of Arms for the United States Great Seal on June 20, 1782.
(4)
The bald eagle image remains the leading insignia for all branches of the United States military.
(5)
The bald eagle is the leading image on thousands of government branches, departments, and agencies, including the President, Vice-President, Congress, and Senate.
(6)
The bald eagle serves as the logo, trademark, and brand icon by businesses, nonprofits, and sports teams across the United States.
(7)
Bald eagles are integral to the spiritual lives and sacred belief systems of most Indigenous peoples and Tribal communities.
(8)
Bald eagles are prevalent in belief, practice, stories, ceremonies, dance, traditions, songs, regalia, flags, insignias, arts, craft, and other forms of spiritual reverence.
(9)
Bald eagle festivals are held in over 100 locations across America and are key components of community engagement.
(10)
The bald eagle is prevalent on hundreds of United States stamps and many coins and currencies.
(11)
The bald eagle is a primary component and symbol on Federal and State flags nationwide.
(12)
Joint efforts of Federal, State, and local governments, as well as nonprofits and individuals, have contributed to the successful recovery of the bald eagle.
(b)
Designation
Chapter 3
of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
306.
National bird
The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) is the national bird.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Chapter 3
of title 36, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the chapter heading, by striking
and tree
and inserting
tree, and bird
; and
(2)
in the table of sections, by adding at the end the following:
306. National bird.
.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section, the amendments made by this section, or the adoption of the bald eagle as the national bird of the United States may be construed or used as a reason to alter, change, modify, or otherwise affect any plan, policy, management decision, regulation, or other action of the Federal Government.
