1.
Report and strategy on increasing membership in the Comprehensive Security Integration and Prosperity Agreement
(a)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes a strategy to increase membership in the Comprehensive Security Integration and Prosperity Agreement (CSIPA), done at Washington, DC on September 13, 2023.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall also include a description of the following:
(A)
The comprehensive strategic benefits of the CSIPA being in place following the Houthi attacks on merchant vessels the Red Sea.
(B)
The reasons for which allied countries in the region have been hesitant to join CSIPA.
(C)
The long-term benefits of widened membership in the CSIPA.
(D)
How the framework of the CSIPA can be altered to foster broader regional security integration, bolster mutual deterrence against external threats, and expand cooperation in the fields of commerce, science, and technology.
(b)
Strategy
Not later than 180 days after the submission of the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committee a strategy on how to best engage allied countries in the Middle East to join the CSIPA and affirmative steps the Administration can take to increase membership in that agreement.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) and the strategy required by subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
(d)
Implementation plan required
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary develops the strategy required by subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, or provide such committees a briefing on, a plan for implementing the strategy.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Armed Services and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services and Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(2)
The term
congressional defense committees
means the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
