1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Phosphate and Potash Protection Act of 2024
.
2.
Evaluation of certain minerals for designation as critical minerals
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall evaluate potash, phosphates, and other minerals necessary for the production of fertilizer and other agricultural products used to promote crop development for designation as critical minerals under section 7002(c)(4) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(c)(4)
).
(b)
Recommendations
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall—
(1)
evaluate policies in place as of the date of the enactment of this section related to the permitting and leasing of projects for the exploration, development, and production of the minerals described in subsection (a); and
(2)
submit to the appropriate congressional committees recommendations to support the domestic production of such minerals.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report regarding the evaluation carried out under subsection (a), including a description of how each mineral described in subsection (a) does or does not meet each requirement of the designation methodology to determine the eligibility of each such mineral for inclusion on the critical minerals list.
(d)
Designation
If, pursuant to the evaluation carried out under subsection (a), the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, determines that a mineral described in subsection (a) meets each requirement of the designation methodology, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and not later than 60 days after the date on which the report required under subsection (c) is submitted, shall designate such mineral as a critical mineral under section 7002(c)(4) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(c)(4)
) and update the critical minerals list accordingly.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.
(2)
Critical mineral
The term
critical mineral
has the meaning given the term in section 7002(a) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(a)
).
(3)
Critical minerals list
The term
critical minerals list
means the list of critical minerals published under section 7002(c)(3) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(c)(3)
).
(4)
Designation methodology
The term
designation methodology
means the methodology published under section 7002(c)(3) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(c)(3)
) as of the date of the enactment of this section.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
