1.
Short title
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of the Army’s Explosive Ordnance Disposal Enterprise Act of 2024
.
2.
Designation of deputy under secretary of the army as principal official responsible for explosive ordnance disposal
(a)
In general
Section 7014 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
(1)
The Secretary of the Army shall designate the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army as the official within the Office of the Secretary of the Army with principal responsibility for the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army.
(2)
The responsibilities of the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army under this subsection shall include—
(A)
providing oversight and strategic direction for the management and operations of the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army, including planning, programming, budgeting, and execution;
(B)
providing strategic direction for the funding of the enterprise, including funding for—
(i)
manning, training, organizing, equipping (including any associated research and development), and sustaining the enterprise; and
(ii)
supporting military installations that comprise the enterprise;
(C)
providing strategic direction for the activities of the enterprise in providing explosive ordinance disposal support for—
(i)
the President;
(ii)
combatant commanders;
(iii)
military installations; and
(iv)
civilian law enforcement agencies (in accordance with sections 282 and 283 of this title); and
(D)
providing strategic direction on the activities of the enterprise over the full range of military operations from irregular warfare to large-scale ground combat.
(3)
On an annual basis, the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the status of the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army. The briefing shall include, with respect to the period covered by the most recent future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title (as of the date of the briefing), an estimate of the total obligatory authority for the enterprise and the numbers and types of personnel expected to be assigned to the enterprise.
(4)
In this subsection, the terms
explosive ordnance
and
explosive ordnance disposal
have the meanings given those terms in section 2284(d).
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
