1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Native Americans’ Credit Act of 2024
.
2.
Amendments to Fair Credit Reporting Act
(a)
Native american’s medical debt defined
Section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681a
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(bb)
Native American
The term
Native American
has the meaning given the term
Indians
or
Indian
in section 1603 of title 25, United States Code, and further includes the term
California Indian
as defined in that section.
(cc)
Native American’s medical debt
The term
Native American’s medical debt
—
(1)
means a debt of a Native American arising from health care provided in a non-Indian Health Service facility that was authorized by an employee of the Indian Health Service; and
(2)
includes medical debt that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has wrongfully charged a Native American.
.
(b)
Exclusion for Native American’s medical debt
Section 605(a) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681c
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(9)
Any information related to a Native American’s medical debt if the date on which the hospital care or medical services was rendered relating to the debt antedates the report by less than 1 year.
(10)
Any information related to a fully paid or settled Native American’s medical debt that had been characterized as delinquent, charged off, or in collection.
.
(c)
Removal of Native American’s medical debt from consumer report
Section 611 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681i
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(1)(A) by striking
and except as provided in subsection (g)
and inserting
and except as provided in subsections (g) and (h)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Dispute process for Native American’s medical debt
(1)
In general
With respect to a Native American’s medical debt of a consumer, the consumer may submit a notice along with proof of liability of the Department of Health and Human Services for payment of that debt or documentation that the Indian Health Service is in the process of making payment for authorized medical services rendered to a consumer reporting agency or a reseller to dispute the inclusion of that debt on a consumer report of the consumer.
(2)
Notification to native american
The Department of Health and Human Services shall submit to a Native American a notice that the Department of Health and Human Services has assumed liability for part or all of a Native American’s medical debt.
(3)
Deletion of information from file
If a notice and proof of liability or documentation is received under paragraph (1), the consumer reporting agency shall delete all information relating to the Native American’s medical debt from the file of the consumer and notify the furnisher and the consumer of that deletion.
.
3.
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
