1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Administration Rural Performance Report Act
.
2.
Small business rural performance reports
(a)
Office of Rural Affairs Annual Performance Report
Section 26 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 653
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall make available on a website of the Administration, and submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate, a report on the activities of the Office during the year preceding the date of the report that includes the following elements:
(A)
How the Office is promoting financial assistance pursuant to subsection (c)(1).
(B)
Annual statistics compiled pursuant to subsection (c)(2).
(C)
How the Office is providing information pursuant to subsection (c)(3).
(D)
How the Office is providing information pursuant to subsection (c)(4).
(E)
The number of outreach events conducted by the Office to provide information described in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (c).
(F)
Details of any partnerships that the Office engaged in to provide the outreach described in paragraph (5), including any partnerships with the National Travel and Tourism Office of the Department of Commerce.
(G)
The name of the director of the Office and the number of staff employed by the Office.
(2)
Annual report
The Administrator shall annually submit, along with the budget the budget justification materials submitted in support of the Small Business Administration budget for a fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31), a report that includes the elements described in paragraph (1).
.
(b)
Technical amendment
Section 26(c)(5) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 653(c)(5)
) is amended by striking
United States Tourism and Travel Administration
and inserting
National Travel and Tourism Office of the Department of Commerce
.
(c)
Memorandum of Understanding with Department of Agriculture Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall make available on a website of the Administration and submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report on the MOU. Such report shall include a description of the following:
(1)
How many working groups convened pursuant to the MOU the Administration was part of and if the Administration is still part of any such working groups.
(2)
How many staff employed by the Administration were and are still involved with a working group convened pursuant to the MOU.
(3)
The findings specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of paragraph (1) of part 2 of the MOU.
(4)
The findings specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of paragraph (2) of part 2 of the MOU.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Administration
The term
Administration
means the Small Business Administration.
(3)
MOU
The term
MOU
means the memorandum of understanding between the Department of Agriculture and the Small Business Administration entered into on April 4, 2018, about collaborative efforts to promote stronger businesses and agricultural economies in rural America.
4.
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act. Such Act and amendments shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
