1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Nuclear Workforce Act
.
2.
Nuclear Education Initiative
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Energy shall establish and carry out an initiative to encourage States to enhance the dissemination of nuclear science and technology information at covered schools.
(b)
Degrees
In carrying out the initiative established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall encourage States to work with institutions of higher education that are covered schools, to, as appropriate, incorporate degrees that may be relevant in the nuclear energy industry, including degrees in environmental science, biology, chemistry, nuclear engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, civil engineering, systems engineering, radiochemistry, applied and engineering physics, materials science, and occupational safety and health.
(c)
Tours and outreach
In carrying out the initiative established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall encourage—
(1)
covered schools to engage with local nuclear power plants to provide students with tours of such nuclear power plants to learn about nuclear energy firsthand; and
(2)
relevant nuclear stakeholders to engage with covered schools about potential professional opportunities within the nuclear industry, including by providing information regarding paid and unpaid internships, scholarships, apprenticeships, fellowships, and other experiential opportunities.
(d)
Nuclear Energy University Program
The Secretary of Energy shall, to the extent practicable, carry out the initiative established under subsection (a) in conjunction with the Nuclear Energy University Program of the Department of Energy.
(e)
Consideration
In establishing and carrying out the initiative under subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall take into consideration the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations Uniform Curriculum Program Guide.
(f)
Mentorship program
(1)
In general
In carrying out the initiative established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall establish and carry out a mentorship program to pair volunteers who are employed in the nuclear industry with students in covered schools, including for virtual teleconference mentorship opportunities.
(2)
Procedures
In carrying out the mentorship program established under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Energy shall establish procedures to appropriately pair students with volunteers, based on career interest, geographic location, or any other consideration the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Consideration
In carrying out the mentorship program established under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Energy shall consider any ongoing efforts to establish, or already established, mentorship programs or opportunities that may be relevant and could be utilized.
(g)
Research and test reactors
In carrying out the initiative established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall encourage States to work with institutions of higher education that have a research and test reactor on campus to continue to use the research and test reactor—
(1)
to assist in preparing students for careers in the nuclear workforce, including careers at nuclear power plants and in the nuclear energy supply chain; and
(2)
to help inform the general student body about nuclear energy.
(h)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered school
The term
covered school
means—
(A)
an institution of higher education or a secondary school that is located within approximately 25 miles (or such distance as the Secretary of Energy determines appropriate) of—
(i)
a commercially operating nuclear power plant; or
(ii)
the headquarters for a nuclear reactor developer; or
(B)
any other institution of higher education or secondary school that the Secretary of Energy determines appropriate.
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101 or 102(a)(1)(B) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
, 1002(a)(1)(B)).
(3)
Research and test reactor
The term
research and test reactor
has the meaning given such term in section 3(11) of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (
42 U.S.C. 2215
note).
(4)
Secondary school
The term
secondary school
has the meaning given such term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
