1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Career and Technical Education Advocacy Grant Program Act
.
2.
Purpose and finding
(a)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to establish a grant program to enable career and technical education schools to advocate for the value and benefits of career and technical education programs and to increase public awareness of the opportunities and advantages these programs offer.
(b)
Finding
Congress recognizes the importance of career and technical education in preparing students for successful careers and fostering economic growth.
3.
Career and technical education advocacy grant program
(a)
Grant authorization and uses
Subject to the availability of funds appropriated under subsection (f), the Secretary shall award grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for the following purposes:
(1)
Advocacy initiatives
To support activities and campaigns aimed at advocating for the importance of career and technical education (in this Act referred to as
CTE
) programs to students, parents, educators, employers, and policymakers.
(2)
Public awareness campaigns
To develop and carry out a public awareness campaign that highlights the benefits of CTE programs and showcases student success stories.
(3)
Outreach programs
To facilitate partnerships and outreach efforts that engage local businesses, community organizations, and government agencies in support of CTE initiatives.
(b)
Eligibility entity
In this Act, the term
eligible entity
means a public or private entity that offers a career and technical education program.
(c)
Applications
(1)
In general
To be eligible to receive a grant under this Act, an eligible entity shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including information on the specific initiatives the eligible entity intends to carry out to raise public awareness regarding CTE programs.
(2)
Application evaluation
The Secretary shall establish, through the Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, eligibility criteria, application procedures, and a review process for selecting eligible entities to receive grants.
(d)
Report
Not later than 1 year after receiving a grant, and on an annual basis thereafter for each year that an eligible entity receives a grant, the eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary a report on the progress and outcomes of the activities supported by the grant under this Act.
(e)
Evaluation and review
(1)
In general
The Secretary may, through the Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, periodically evaluate and review any program carried out with grant funds under this Act to assess the impact and effectiveness of such a program, which may include an assessment of the needs of the community being served by such a program.
(2)
Adjustments
On the basis of a review carried out under paragraph (1), the Secretary may require an eligible entity to make adjustments to the program such entity is carrying out with the grant funds under this Act.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2030 to carry out this Act. Amounts appropriated pursuant to such authorization of appropriation are authorized to remain available until expended.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Career and technical education
The term
career and technical education
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2302
).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
