1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Child Welfare Workforce Development Act
.
2.
Child welfare workforce development
(a)
Modification of payment reduction rules
Section 424(f) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 624(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
(1)(A)
; and
(B)
by striking subparagraph (B); and
(2)
by striking paragraph (2).
(b)
Use of funds
Section 436(b)(4)(B)(i) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 629f(b)(4)(B)(i)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
emphasis on
and all that follows and inserting
emphasis on—
; and
(2)
by adding after and below the end the following:
(I)
reducing caseload ratios and the administrative burden on caseworkers, to improve caseworker decision making on the safety, permanency, and well-being of foster children and on activities designed to increase retention, recruitment, and training of caseworkers;
(II)
implementing technology solutions to streamline caseworker duties and modernize systems, ensuring improved efficiency and effectiveness in child welfare services;
(III)
technologies designed to enhance caseworker safety;
(IV)
developing and implementing mentoring or coaching programs that address work-related stress and offer frontline workers support; and
(V)
recruitment campaigns aimed at attracting qualified caseworker candidates.
.
(c)
Effective date
(1)
In general
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2026, and shall apply to payments under part B of title IV of the Social Security Act for calendar quarters beginning on or after such date.
(2)
Delay permitted if State legislation required
If the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that State legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) is required in order for a State plan developed pursuant to part B of title IV of the Social Security Act to meet the additional requirements imposed by the amendments made by this section, the plan shall not be regarded as failing to meet any of the additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter beginning after the first regular session of the State legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if the State has a 2-year legislative session, each year of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of the State legislature.
