1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
First Responders Passport Act of 2023
.
2.
Passports for first responders
(a)
In general
Section 1 of the Act of June 4, 1920 (
22 U.S.C. 214
; 41 Stat. 750; commonly referred to as the
Passport Act of 1920
), is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
(a)
In general
There shall be collected and paid into the Treasury of the United States a fee, prescribed by the Secretary of State by regulation, for the filing of each application for a passport (including the cost of passport issuance and use) and a fee, prescribed by the Secretary of State by regulation, for executing each such application, except that the Secretary of State may by regulation authorize State officials or the United States Postal Service to collect and retain the execution fee for each application for a passport accepted by such officials or by that Service. Such fees shall not be refundable, except as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe.
(b)
Exception for passport fee
Notwithstanding subsection (a), no passport fee shall be collected from any of the following:
(1)
An officer or employee of the United States proceeding abroad in the discharge of official duties, or from members of his immediate family.
(2)
An American seaman who requires a passport in connection with his duties aboard an American flag-vessel.
(3)
A widow, widower, child, parent, grandparent, brother, or sister of a deceased member of the Armed Forces proceeding abroad to visit the grave of such member or to attend a funeral or memorial service for such member.
(4)
An individual or individuals abroad, returning to the United States, when the Secretary determines that foregoing the collection of such fee is justified for humanitarian reasons or for law enforcement purposes.
(5)
At the discretion of the Secretary, an individual, including a volunteer, who—
(A)
is operating under a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with the United States Government to proceed abroad to a foreign country to participate in search, rescue, and other related disaster relief operations within such foreign country within the first 7 days after a natural disaster affecting such foreign country; and
(B)
is required pursuant to such contract, grant, or cooperative agreement to be available to so proceed abroad immediately upon notice from the United States Government.
(c)
Exception for execution fee
No execution fee shall be collected for an application made before a Federal official by a person excused from payment of the passport fee under this section.
.
(b)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the end of the first full fiscal year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the number of waivers of fees for the execution and issuance of passports to first responders under section 1 of the Act of June 4, 1920, as amended by subsection (a) of this section, for such fiscal year.
3.
Determination of budgetary effects
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
