1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ensuring Quality Investments in Preparedness Act of 2024
or the
EQUIP Act of 2024
.
2.
Disaster deductible
The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
VIII
DISASTER DEDUCTIBLE
801.
Establishment of disaster deductible
(a)
In general
The President, in consultation with State and local governments and other stakeholders, shall establish a major disaster deductible for each State in an amount calculated under this title that offsets any amount received by a State under section 406 for permanent work (referred to by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency as category C through G).
(b)
Calculation of deductible
(1)
In general
Beginning with respect to calendar year 2025, and annually thereafter, the President shall calculate the amount of the major disaster deductible of each State.
(2)
Base amount
The President shall establish a base amount by multiplying the population of the State determined by the most recent American Community Survey carried out by the Bureau of the Census by a factor of 3.
(3)
Adjustment
In calculating such deductible, the President shall—
(A)
use the base amount established under paragraph (2); and
(B)
increase the amount of the deductible, as determined appropriate, by taking into consideration the amount of Federal financial assistance provided to a State under this Act in response to a major disaster declared under section 401 in the 3 years preceding the year for which the calculation applies.
(c)
Specified insurance defined
In this section, the term
specified insurance
means—
(1)
insurance required under section 311; and
(2)
insurance under section 406(d).
802.
Application of Federal share
(a)
Statutory construction
Nothing in this title may be construed to affect the amount of the Federal share of funds required under this Act.
(b)
Nonqualification of State or local share towards disaster deductible
Any funds used or expenditures made by a State or local governments to meet non-Federal share requirements under this Act may not be calculated towards the disaster deductible required by this title.
.
