1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Spinal Trauma Access to New Devices Act
or the
Veterans STAND Act
.
2.
Provision of preventative health evaluations for veterans with a spinal cord injury or disorder
Section 1706 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
(1)
In managing the provision of hospital care and medical services under section 1710(a) of this title, the Secretary shall furnish (through direct provision of service, referral, or a telehealth program operated by the Department) a preventative health evaluation annually to any veteran with a spinal cord injury or disorder who elects to undergo the evaluation.
(2)
The evaluation described in paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of any circumstance or condition the veteran is experiencing that indicates a risk for any health complication related to the spinal cord injury or disorder, including a risk of comorbidities.
(B)
An assessment regarding chronic pain and, if applicable, the management of chronic pain.
(C)
An assessment regarding dietary management and weight management.
(D)
An assessment regarding prosthetic equipment, including which prosthetic equipment the veteran needs, how well any existing prosthetic equipment is functioning considering the needs of the veteran, and any safety concerns regarding the prosthetic equipment in use by or recommended to the veteran.
(E)
An assessment for the provision of any assistive technology that could help maximize the independence and mobility of the veteran.
(3)
(A)
In maintaining, prescribing, or amending any guidance, rules, or regulations issued by the Department regarding the requirements set out in this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with the spinal cord injury and disorder program managers of the Department, clinicians employed by the Department as specialists in spinal cord injuries and disorders, and the organizations named in or approved under section 5902 of this title.
(B)
Before issuing any guidance, rules, or regulations regarding the requirements set out in this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with manufacturers of assistive technologies and other entities relevant to the provision of assistive technologies if the guidance, rules, or regulations would directly affect such manufacturers or entities.
(C)
The Secretary shall ensure, to the extent possible, that any veteran known by the Secretary to have a spinal cord injury or disorder receives information annually about the evaluation available under this subsection and the benefits to the veteran of choosing to undergo the evaluation.
(4)
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the Veterans Spinal Trauma Access to New Devices Act, and every two years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the following:
(A)
For the period covered by the report, the number of veterans who—
(i)
received medical care or hospital services from the Department and used an assistive technology;
(ii)
received medical care or hospital services from the Department and were assessed for the provision of an assistive technology; and
(iii)
received medical care or hospital services from the Department and were prescribed an assistive technology.
(B)
The year-to-year change (for the period covered by the report, including the two years immediately prior to year the report is submitted) in the percent of veterans with a spinal cord injury or disorder who received an evaluation under this subsection.
(5)
In reviewing the performance metrics of a Veterans Integrated Service Network for any year beginning after the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of the Veterans Spinal Trauma Access to New Devices Act, the Secretary shall consider the provision of evaluations under paragraph (1).
(6)
In this subsection, the term
assistive technology
means a powered medical device or electronic tool used to treat or alleviate symptoms or conditions caused by a spinal cord injury or disorder, including the following:
(A)
A personal mobility device, including a powered exoskeleton device.
(B)
A speech generating device.
.
