1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Halting Appropriations for Terrorist-supporting Institutions that Knowingly provide Valued Assets to Hamas and Hezbollah Act
or the
HATIKVAHH Act
.
2.
Certification
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall, with respect to each international organization operating in Gaza or Judea and Samaria to which the United States Government provides funding, submit to the appropriate congressional committees a written certification of whether the organization complies with each of the following requirements:
(1)
The organization does not provide resources or other support to a specified foreign terrorist organization or its members, directly or indirectly.
(2)
The organization does not cooperate or work with a specified foreign terrorist organization or its members, directly or indirectly.
(3)
The organization does not employ or contract with a member of a specified foreign terrorist organization, directly or indirectly.
(4)
The organization does not openly support or celebrate a specified foreign terrorist organization or a member of a foreign terrorist organization.
(5)
No official, employee, consultant, contractor, subcontractor, representative, or affiliate of the organization—
(A)
is a member of, is affiliated with, or has any ties to a specified foreign terrorist organization;
(B)
has advocated, planned, sponsored, or engaged in any terrorist activity; or
(C)
has called for violence against Americans.
(6)
No infrastructure or resources of the organization are being used by a specified foreign terrorist organization or any member thereof—
(A)
for terrorist activities, such as operations, planning, training, recruitment, fundraising, indoctrination, communications, sanctuary, storage of weapons or other materials; or
(B)
as an access point to any underground tunnel network, or any other terrorist-related purposes.
(7)
The organization is subject to comprehensive financial audits by an internationally recognized third-party independent auditing firm that has implemented an effective system of vetting, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, and oversight to prevent the use, receipt, or diversion of any resources by any foreign terrorist organization or members thereof.
(8)
The organization does not provide funds or loans to another organization that is—
(A)
a member of, is affiliated with, or has any ties to a specified foreign terrorist organization; or
(B)
otherwise engaged in terrorist activities.
(9)
The organization does not hold an account or other affiliations with financial institutions that the United States considers or believes to be complicit in money laundering or terrorist financing.
(b)
Notifications; suspension of funding
(1)
In general
If the Secretary of State submits a written certification to the appropriate congressional committees under subsection (a) with respect to an international organization indicating that the Secretary has determined that the organization is not complying with the requirements described in paragraphs (1) through (9) of subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall provide a written notification thereof to the organization which shall include the reasons for such determination.
(2)
Suspension of funding
If the Secretary of State submits a second consecutive written certification to the appropriate congressional committees under subsection (a) with respect to an international organization described in paragraph (1) indicating that the Secretary has determined that the organization is not complying with the requirements described in paragraphs (1) through (9) of subsection (a), the United States Government shall suspend providing further assistance to the organization until such time as the Secretary submits a subsequent written certification to the appropriate congressional committees indicating that the organization is complying with such requirements.
(3)
Publication in Federal Register
The Secretary of State shall publish in the Federal Register a notification with respect to the suspension of funding to any international organization under paragraph (2).
3.
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing the actions being taken to implement a comprehensive plan for urging other countries to withhold funds to any international organization that is prohibited from receiving funding from the United States by reason of the limitation provided for in section 2(b).
4.
Rule of construction
The Secretary of State shall consider each United Nations agency to be a separate international organization for purposes of applying the provisions of this Act.
5.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the term
specified foreign terrorist organization
means—
(A)
Hamas, Hezbollah, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Palestine Liberation Front, Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, or the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps; or
(B)
any other organization—
(i)
designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the Secretary of State in accordance with section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(a)
); and
(ii)
operating in Gaza or Judea and Samaria.
