1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pregnant Students’ Rights Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Female students enrolled at institutions of higher education and experiencing an unplanned pregnancy may face pressure that their only option is to receive an abortion or risk academic failure.
(2)
Almost 30 percent of all abortions in the United States are performed on women of college age, between the ages of 20 and 24, according to a 2021 report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(3)
A significant proportion of abortions in the United States are performed on women of college age who may be unaware of their rights to accommodation and prohibitions against discrimination due to pregnancy under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
) or deprived of information about abortion alternatives.
(4)
Additionally, women on college campuses may fear institutional reprisal, loss of athletic scholarship, and possible negative impact on academic opportunities during the pregnancy and after childbirth.
(5)
An academic disparity exists because of the lack of resources, support, and notifications available for female college students who do not wish to receive an abortion or who carry their unborn babies to term.
3.
Notice of pregnant student rights, accommodations, and resources
Section 485 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1092
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(n)
Pregnant Students’ Rights, Accommodations, and Resources
(1)
In general
Each institution of higher education participating in any program under this title shall carry out the information dissemination activities described in
paragraph (3)
for prospective and enrolled students (including those attending or planning to attend less than full time) regarding the information described in
paragraph (2)
on the rights of, and resources (including protections and accommodations) for, pregnant students and students who may become pregnant while enrolled at such institution of higher education.
(2)
Information content
The information on the rights of, and resources (including protections and accommodations) for, pregnant students and students who may become pregnant described in this paragraph shall include—
(A)
a list of resources on campus and in the community that exist to help a pregnant student in carrying the baby to term and caring for the baby after birth;
(B)
information about the accommodations available to help a pregnant student carry the baby to term and parent the baby after birth; and
(C)
information on how to file a complaint with—
(i)
the Department of Education, if a student believes there was a violation by the institution of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
) on account of such student’s pregnancy, including a failure to accommodate such pregnancy, or childbirth; and
(ii)
the institution, if a student believes the student has been discriminated against in violation of such title IX on account of the student’s pregnancy or childbirth.
(3)
Information dissemination activities
The information dissemination activities described in this paragraph shall include—
(A)
an email to each enrolled student at the start of each period of study during an academic year; and
(B)
the provision of information—
(i)
in student handbooks, if any;
(ii)
at each orientation for enrolled students;
(iii)
at student health or counseling centers, if any; and
(iv)
on the publicly available website of the institution of higher education.
.
