1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
IVF Protection Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Since its development in the 1970s, in vitro fertilization (referred to in this section as
IVF
) has proven itself to be a safe, effective, and reliable means to achieving pregnancy.
(2)
IVF has allowed millions of aspiring parents to experience the miracle of childbirth.
(3)
IVF is a pro-woman and pro-family solution for those struggling to have children.
(4)
IVF has become a symbol of hope for those aspiring to conceive.
(5)
It is now estimated that nearly 2 percent of all live births in the United States are the result of IVF, resulting in tens of thousands of happy, healthy babies being born annually.
(6)
The use of IVF has strengthened our communities and our nation by promoting generations of children and families that otherwise may not have come to be.
3.
Medicaid requirement that States do not prohibit IVF services
Section 1902 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396a
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(uu)
Requirement that States do not prohibit IVF services
As a condition of receiving payments under section 1903(a), a State—
(1)
shall not prohibit in vitro fertilization (as defined in section 4(b) of the
IVF Protection Act
) services; and
(2)
shall ensure that no unit of local government in the State prohibits such services.
.
4.
No requirement to furnish IVF services
(a)
In general
Nothing in the
IVF Protection Act
shall be construed to compel any individual or organization to provide in vitro fertilization services.
(b)
In vitro fertilization defined
In this section, the term
in vitro fertilization
means the practice whereby eggs are collected from ovaries and manually fertilized by sperm, for later placement inside of a uterus.
5.
Rule of construction
Nothing in the
IVF Protection Act
shall be construed to impede States from implementing health and safety standards regarding the practice of in vitro fertilization (as defined in section 4(b)).
