1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Government Data-Driven Decisions Act
.
2.
Data infrastructure grant program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a data infrastructure grant program under which the Secretary shall provide grants to support projects for centralized data sharing, correlation, and analysis capacity to facilitate effectiveness and efficiency in the administration of State programs and services.
(b)
Goals
The goals of the Program are—
(1)
to leverage data infrastructure created and maintained by State government agencies to inform innovation and efficiency efforts related to State programs and services;
(2)
to improve information technology systems, practices, and procedures to enhance the security of data by such agencies;
(3)
to increase the capabilities of such agencies for implementing data management, augmented analytics, integration, business process improvement, and intelligent technologies; and
(4)
to protect the privacy of individuals by adhering to all applicable State and Federal privacy laws and regulations.
(c)
Eligible recipients
The Secretary may make a grant under the Program to a State government.
(d)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an entity described in subsection (c) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(e)
Grant amounts
(1)
Minimum
The minimum amount of a grant under the Program shall be $1,500,000.
(2)
Maximum
The maximum amount of a grant under the Program shall be $5,000,000.
(f)
Definitions
(1)
Data infrastructure
The term
data infrastructure
means the people, processes, systems, and resources that enable the entire ecosystem for real time, high quality, and data-driven decisionmaking, including the collection and reporting of information, the secure and compliant retention systems, and the analysis and presentation of the information.
(2)
Program
The term
Program
means the grant program established under subsection (a).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $41,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.
