1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Staff Safety Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Section 5104 of title 40, United States Code, exempts Members of Congress, employees of Members of Congress, officers and employees of committees of Congress, and any other officers or employees of either House of Congress from regulations pertaining to the carrying and possession of firearms on the United States Capitol Grounds.
(2)
The Supreme court in District of Columbia v. Heller held that the Second Amendment protects the individual right to possess a firearm unconnected with service in a militia, and the use of arms for traditionally lawful purposes.
(3)
Justice Clarence Thomas, in the majority opinion for New York State Rifle & Pistol Association Inc. v. Bruen, affirms that the Second Amendment extends to carrying firearms outside of ones home, writing
Nothing in the Second Amendment’s text draws a home/public distinction with respect to the right to keep and bear arms, and the definition of
bear
naturally encompasses public carry. Moreover, the Second Amendment guarantees an
individual right to possess and carry weapons in case of confrontation
, and confrontation can surely take place outside the home.
.
(4)
Current regulations found in the Traffic Regulations for the United States Capitol Grounds promulgated by the Capitol Police Board (in Appendix J) which prevent staff from carrying firearms on the United States Capitol Grounds violate both Federal law and the Constitution.
3.
Clarification of applicability of exemption of Members, officers, and employees of Congress from laws prohibiting possession of firearms in Capitol and on Capitol Grounds to regulations of Capitol Police Board
(a)
Applicability of exemption to regulations
Section 5104(e)(3) of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking
This subsection does not prohibit
and inserting
This subsection does not prohibit, and the regulations prescribed by the Capitol Police Board under paragraph (1)(A) shall not prohibit,
.
(b)
Revision of existing regulations
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Capitol Police Board shall revise any regulations prescribed under section 5104(e)(1)(A) of title 40, United States Code, to ensure that the regulations are consistent with section 5104(e)(3) of such title.
