1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Table Rock Lake Property Protection Act
.
2.
Table Rock Lake encroachment
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall—
(1)
suspend any activities to require eligible property owners to remove eligible structures; and
(2)
offer to an eligible property owner a conveyance or release that—
(A)
for an eligible structure located on fee land, conveys by quitclaim deed the minimum land required to maintain the eligible structure, reserving the right to flood the land, if applicable;
(B)
for an eligible structure located on land subject to a flowage easement, releases by quitclaim deed the easement prohibition; and
(C)
provides that—
(i)
the eligible structure shall not be extended further onto fee land or land subject to the flowage easement;
(ii)
additional structures for human habitation shall not be placed on fee land or land subject to the flowage easement;
(iii)
the United States shall not be liable or responsible for damage to the eligible structure caused by the operation of the Lake; and
(iv)
no claim to compensation shall accrue from the exercise of any flowage easement right.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Easement prohibition
The term
easement prohibition
means the rights acquired by the United States, in a flowage easement, to prohibit structures for human habitation on land subject to the easement.
(2)
Eligible property owner
The term
eligible property owner
means a person who owns an eligible structure.
(3)
Eligible structure
The term
eligible structure
means a structure for human habitation, including a septic system—
(A)
that is located on fee land or land subject to the flowage easement; and
(B)
for which a license for right-of-way has been provided by the Secretary and is in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
(4)
Fee land
The term
fee land
means the land acquired in fee title by the United States for the Lake.
(5)
Flowage easement
The term
flowage easement
means an interest in land acquired by the United States that includes the right to flood land surrounding the Lake.
(6)
Lake
The term
Lake
means the Table Rock Lake project of the Corps of Engineers, located in Missouri and Arkansas, authorized as one of the multiple-purpose reservoir projects in the White River Basin by section 4 of the Act of June 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 1218).
(7)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
