1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
The Amtrak Transparency and Accountability for Passengers and Taxpayer Act
.
2.
Open meetings
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Amtrak Board of Directors shall adhere to the requirements of section 552b of title 5, United States Code, as applicable.
(b)
Nonpublic collaborative discussions
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding section 552b of title 5, United States Code, a majority of the members of the Board may hold a meeting to discuss official business that is not open to public observation if—
(A)
no formal or informal vote or other official action is taken at the meeting; and
(B)
each individual present at the meeting is a member or an employee of the Board.
(2)
Disclosure of nonpublic collaborative discussions
Except as provided under paragraph (3), not later than 2 business days after the conclusion of a meeting described in paragraph (1), the Board shall make available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public—
(A)
a list of the individuals present at the meeting; and
(B)
a summary of the matters, including key issues, discussed at the meeting, except for any matter the Board properly determines may be withheld from the public under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Ongoing proceedings
If a meeting described in paragraph (1) directly relates to an ongoing proceeding before the Board, the Board shall make the disclosure required under paragraph (2) on the date on which the Board issues a final decision with respect to such ongoing proceeding.
(c)
Summary of withheld matters
If the Board properly determines a matter may be withheld from the public under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States Code, the Board shall provide to the public a summary of any such matter with as much general information as possible on such matter.
3.
Annual briefing
(a)
Briefing required
During the 30-day period ending on the day before the first date of each fiscal year, the Chair of the Board of Directors of Amtrak shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the activities of the Board in the fiscal year in which the briefing occurs.
(b)
Content of briefing
The briefing required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
a description of all matters before the Board that required a vote of the Board; and
(2)
a description of matters pending before the Board in which the Board is required to vote.
