1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Country of Origin Labeling Enforcement Act of 2023
.
2.
Country of origin labeling for beef
(a)
Definitions
Section 281 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1638
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (7) as paragraphs (2) through (8), respectively;
(2)
by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) the following:
(1)
Beef
The term
beef
means meat produced from cattle (including veal).
;
(3)
in paragraph (2)(A)(i) (as so redesignated), by striking
lamb and venison
and inserting
beef, lamb, and venison
; and
(4)
in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) (as so redesignated), by striking
ground lamb and ground venison
and inserting
ground beef, ground lamb, and ground venison
.
(b)
Notice of country of origin
Section 282(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1638a(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Designation of country of origin for beef
A retailer of a covered commodity that is beef may designate the covered commodity as exclusively having a United States country of origin only if the covered commodity is derived from an animal that was exclusively born, raised, slaughtered, and packaged in the United States.
.
(c)
Enforcement
Section 283(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1638b(b)
) is amended by striking
$1,000 for each violation
and inserting
$1,000 for each violation (or in the case of a covered commodity that is beef, $5,000 for each pound of beef not in compliance with the requirements of section 282)
.
(d)
Rule of construction
No ruling by the World Trade Organization or by any other international organization of which the United States is a member that is established before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act may be construed to limit, alter, or affect the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to require country of origin labeling in accordance with the amendments made by this section.
3.
Report on false labeling of foreign beef as originating in the United States
(a)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a report on the false labeling of foreign beef as originating in the United States.
(b)
Elements
The report referred to in subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of how much beef was sold in the United States during the 10-year period beginning on January 1, 2013, that was falsely labeled as having a country of origin of the United States.
(2)
With respect to the 10-year period beginning on January 1, 2013, an assessment of—
(A)
which packers falsely labeled beef as originating in the United States; and
(B)
in the case of beef so falsely labeled, the correct country of origin.
(3)
An assessment of the extent of economic losses sustained by United States ranchers during the 10-year period beginning on January 1, 2013, because consumers unknowingly purchased beef with a foreign country of origin under the assumption that such beef originated in the United States.
(c)
False labeling defined
In this section, the terms
false labeling
and
falsely labeled
mean, with respect to the labeling of beef, labeling such beef as exclusively having a United States country of origin in a manner that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (5) of section 282(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1638a(a)
) (as added by section 2(b) of this Act).
