1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Roll back ESG To Increase Retirement Earnings Act
or the
RETIRE Act
.
2.
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 amendment
(a)
In general
Section 404(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (
29 U.S.C. 1104(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Interest based on pecuniary factors
(A)
In general
For purposes of paragraph (1), a fiduciary of a plan shall be considered to act solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan with respect to an investment or investment course of action only if the fiduciary’s action with respect to such investment or investment course of action is based only on pecuniary factors (except as provided in subparagraph (B)). The fiduciary may not subordinate the interests of the participants and beneficiaries in their retirement income or financial benefits under the plan to other objectives and may not sacrifice investment return or take on additional investment risk to promote non-pecuniary benefits or goals. The weight given to any pecuniary factor by a fiduciary shall reflect a prudent assessment of the impact of such factor on risk and return.
(B)
Use of non-pecuniary factors for investment alternatives
Notwithstanding paragraph (A), if a fiduciary is unable to distinguish between or among investment alternatives or investment courses of action on the basis of pecuniary factors alone, the fiduciary may use non-pecuniary factors as the deciding factor if the fiduciary documents—
(i)
why pecuniary factors were not sufficient to select a plan investment or investment course of action;
(ii)
how the selected investment compares to the alternative investments with regard to the composition of the portfolio with regard to diversification, the liquidity and current return of the portfolio relative to the anticipated cash flow requirements of the plan, and the projected return of the portfolio relative to the funding objectives of the plan; and
(iii)
how the selected non-pecuniary factor or factors are consistent with the interests of the participants and beneficiaries in their retirement income or financial benefits under the plan.
(C)
Investment alternatives for participant-directed individual account plans
In selecting or retaining investment options for a pension plan described in subsection (c)(1)(A), a fiduciary is not prohibited from considering, selecting, or retaining an investment option on the basis that such investment option promotes, seeks, or supports one or more non-pecuniary benefits or goals, if—
(i)
the fiduciary satisfies the requirements of paragraph (1) and subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph in selecting or retaining any such investment option; and
(ii)
such investment option is not added or retained as, or included as a component of, a default investment under subsection (c)(5) (or any other default investment alternative) if its investment objectives or goals or its principal investment strategies include, consider, or indicate the use of one or more non-pecuniary factors.
(D)
Definitions
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
The term
pecuniary factor
means a factor that a fiduciary prudently determines is expected to have a material effect on the risk or return of an investment based on appropriate investment horizons consistent with the plan’s investment objectives and the funding policy established pursuant to section 402(b)(1).
(ii)
The term
investment course of action
means any series or program of investments or actions related to a fiduciary's performance of the fiduciary's investment duties, and includes the selection of an investment fund as a plan investment, or in the case of an individual account plan, a designated investment alternative under the plan.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to actions taken by a fiduciary on or after the date that is 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
