1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FEHB Protection Act
.
2.
FEHB improvements
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
(2)
Employing office
The term
employing office
has the meaning given the term in section 890.101(a) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(3)
Health benefits plan; member of family
The terms
health benefits plan
and
member of family
have the meanings given those terms in section 8901 of title 5, United States Code.
(4)
Open season
The term
open season
means an open season described in section 890.301(f) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(5)
Program
The term
Program
means the health insurance programs carried out under
chapter 89
of title 5, United States Code, including the program carried out under section 8903c of that title.
(6)
Qualifying life event
The term
qualifying life event
has the meaning given the term in section 892.101 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
(b)
Verification requirements
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall issue regulations and implement a process to require each employing office to verify—
(1)
the veracity of any qualifying life event through which an enrollee in the Program seeks to add a member of family with respect to the enrollee to a health benefits plan under the Program; and
(2)
that, when an enrollee in the Program seeks to add a member of family with respect to the enrollee to the health benefits plan of the enrollee under the Program, including during any open season, the individual so added is a qualifying member of family with respect to the enrollee.
(c)
Fraud risk assessment
In any fraud risk assessment conducted with respect to the Program on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall include an assessment of individuals who are enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under the Program even though those individuals are not eligible to be so enrolled or covered.
(d)
Family member eligibility verification audit
(1)
In general
During the 3-year period beginning 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director, in coordination with the head of each employing office, shall conduct a comprehensive audit regarding members of family who are covered under an enrollment in a health benefits plan under the Program.
(2)
Contents
In conducting an audit required under paragraph (1), the Director, in coordination with the head of each employing office, shall review marriage certificates, birth certificates, and other appropriate documents that are necessary to determine eligibility to enroll in a health benefits plan under the Program.
(e)
Disenrollment or removal
Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall develop a process by which any individual enrolled in, or covered under, a health benefits plan under the Program who is not eligible to be so enrolled or covered shall be disenrolled or removed from enrollment in a health benefits plan under the Program.
