1.
Authorization of award of medal of honor to Joseph M. Perez for acts of valor as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War
(a)
Recognition of Acts of Valor
Congress recognizes the following acts of valor by Joseph M. Perez:
(1)
Joseph M. Perez distinguished himself by valorous actions against overwhelming odds while serving as a Sergeant in the Army, with Company C, 3rd Battalion, 8th Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division, in South Vietnam.
(2)
On May 26, 1967, during the Vietnam War, Sergeant Perez acted as the fire team leader with the Commanding Officer of Company C led an infantry unit conducting a search and destroy task near the Cambodian border. When the unit reached the top of a hill, they were suddenly under attack from a concealed sniper.
(3)
During the initial phase of battle, Sergeant Perez and the unit took cover to assess and decide the strength of the enemy and determine the erection of where the attack was coming from. The fire team returned fire, when the enemy launched a hand-grenade. Without hesitation or concern for his personal safety, Sergeant Perez absorbed the full lethal explosion and shielded his fellow soldiers from the blast. The explosion caused Sergeant Perez to lose his right eye and severed his right hand.
(4)
The fire team moved to relocate to a safer area, leaving Sgt Perez alone. Once Sgt Perez regained consciousness, he crawled to safe ground twenty meters to be able to be treated by medics.
(5)
Sergeant Perez’s personal leadership in intense close combat resulted in a major win for his battalion against overwhelming odds, though he lost his eye and hand and nearly lost his life, he saved the lives of three of his fire team members from death and serious injuries from the explosion.
(6)
Sergeant Perez’s selfless devotion to duty, his extraordinary heroism, conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity, and numerous risks of his life above and beyond the call of duty, are all in keeping with the highest traditions of the Army, and reflect great credit on himself, the Armed Forces, and the United States.
(b)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
When awarding him the Distinguished Service Cross, Sergeant Perez’s chain of command was unaware of the full extent of his valorous actions and the numerous risks he took for his soldiers, all above and beyond the call of duty.
(2)
Although Sergeant Perez absorbed the lethal explosion of a hand grenade, once he regained consciousness, he continued to move with his battalion against devastating and overwhelming enemy fire.
(c)
Authorization
Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, to Joseph M. Perez for the acts of valor described in subsection (d).
(d)
Acts of valor described
The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of Joseph M. Perez on May 26, 1967, while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.
