1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Saving Lives on Campuses Act of 2024
.
2.
Opioid overdose rescue kit required
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall require each public institution of higher education that receives funds under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
) to make available opioid overdose rescue kits in accordance with subsection (b).
(b)
Location
(1)
In general
An opioid overdose kit required under subsection (a) shall be—
(A)
available in each classroom facility, library, laboratory facility, dormitory (including dining facilities), or other facility customarily used by an institution for instructional or research purposes or for housing students, faculty, and staff;
(B)
in the case of a facility described in subparagraph (A) that has an automated external defibrillator for public use, placed, where feasible, near such automated external defibrillator; and
(C)
on the person of each individual employed by the institution as emergency medical services personnel, as applicable.
(2)
Registration
The location of each opioid overdose rescue kit required under subsection (a) shall be registered with the health center of the institution or campus emergency medical services, as applicable.
(c)
Additional requirements
Each institution shall—
(1)
replace used or expired opioid overdose rescue kits located on the campus of the institution, as necessary;
(2)
make available, through the health center of the institution or campus emergency medical services, as applicable, a list of locations of each opioid overdose rescue kit; and
(3)
provide training regarding the use and location of each opioid overdose rescue kit during each student orientation program carried out by the institution.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
(2)
Opioid overdose rescue kit
The term
opioid overdose rescue kit
means a kit that—
(A)
is labeled with the words
Overdose Rescue Kit—Naloxone Nasal Spray
or other language approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
(B)
includes—
(i)
Narcan;
(ii)
naloxone; or
(iii)
another medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration that, when administered, negates or neutralizes, in whole or in part, the pharmacological effects of an opioid in the human body.
