1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
The Honoring Our Heroes with Dignity Act
.
2.
Plan for procurement of military working equids for the caisson platoon of the 3rd infantry regiment of the army
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to Congress a detailed plan for the procurement of military working equids for the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd Infantry Regiment of the Army.
(b)
Consultation
In developing the plan required by subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall consult with—
(1)
the Mounted Color Guard of the Marine Corps;
(2)
the Navy, the Air Force, the Space Force, and the Coast Guard; and
(3)
at least two nationally recognized equid organizations, foundations, or councils.
3.
Requirement to begin conducting funerals with caisson services at arlington national cemetery
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall—
(1)
begin conducting at least two funerals with caisson services each week, or a total of four services in a two week period, at Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia; or
(2)
enter into a contract with a nongovernmental entity described in subsection (b).
(b)
Contract described
The contract described in this subsection shall—
(1)
require that the nongovernmental entity—
(A)
begin providing services under the contract not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act;
(B)
provide the military working equids necessary to conduct caisson services for at least one funeral each business day, other than Federal holidays, at Arlington National Cemetery, until the funerals backlogged at such cemetery as of the date of the enactment of this Act are conducted; and
(C)
after the backlogged funerals described in subparagraph (B) are conducted, to continue to provide services to meet the requirement of caisson services for funerals until the Army is capable of conducting at least one funeral with caisson services each business day;
(2)
specify that Army uniformed soldiers and not contract personnel will participate by riding the military working equids in the funeral ceremonies; and
(3)
terminate when the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd Infantry Regiment of the Army begins conducting at least one funeral with caisson services each business day.
4.
Monthly report on funerals at arlington national cemetery on hold until caisson services resume
Section 7721 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
Monthly report on caisson services
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and not less frequently than once every 30 days thereafter, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the number of families that have requested caisson services at Arlington National Cemetery and are waiting to hold funerals until caisson services resume.
.
5.
Land for operations and training of caisson platoon of the 3rd infantry regiment of the army
Section 366 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (
Public Law 118–31
; 137 Stat. 234;
10 U.S.C. 7721
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Land for operations and training
In acquiring the land necessary for the operations and training of the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd Infantry Regiment of the Army, the Secretary of the Army shall consider land in West Virginia and Virginia.
.
