1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Gun Owners’ Privacy Act of 2023
.
2.
Enhancement of privacy of legal gun owners
(a)
Disposition of records
Section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
(A)
Nothing in this paragraph shall be interpreted to expand or restrict the authority of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to carry out any provision of this chapter.
(B)
(i)
A department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government may not store any record or bound volume required under this chapter that is received by the department, agency, or instrumentality on or after the date of the enactment of this clause, unless the record or bound volume is needed in an ongoing bona fide criminal investigation or prosecution.
(ii)
In the case of such a record or bound volume received by such a department, agency, or instrumentality before such date of enactment, the department, agency, or instrumentality shall destroy the record and any information from the record or bound volume that the department, agency, or instrumentality has stored, unless the record or bound volume is needed in an ongoing bona fide criminal investigation or prosecution.
(C)
A department or agency of the Federal Government may not acquire directly from a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer a record required to be maintained by the licensee under this chapter. On request of such a department or agency, the Attorney General may provide the department or agency, as the case may be, with such a record obtained by the Attorney General pursuant to this chapter.
.
(b)
Limitation on content of required reports and records
(1)
Multiple firearm sales reports
Section 923(g)(3)(A) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
The Attorney General may not require or authorize any personal identifying information to be included on the form.
.
(2)
Firearm transaction records
Section 926 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
The Attorney General may not require or authorize any personal identifying information of an individual seeking to acquire a firearm to be included in any record required to be kept pursuant to this chapter.
.
(c)
Definition of personal identifying information
Section 921(a) of such title is amended by inserting after paragraph (30) the following:
(31)
The term
personal identifying information
means any representation of information that permits the identity of an individual to whom the information applies to be reasonably inferred by either direct or indirect means, including information enabling the contacting of the individual.
.
