1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Honey Identification Verification and Enforcement Act
or the
HIVE Act
.
2.
Standard of identity for honey
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall establish a standard of identity for honey in accordance with applicable United States Pharmacopeia standards under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 341
).
3.
Report to Congress on enforcement actions with respect to misbranded honey
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall submit a report to the Congress on enforcement actions taken under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.
) with respect to honey that is adulterated under section 402 of such Act (
21 U.S.C. 342
) and honey that is misbranded under section 403 of such Act (
21 U.S.C. 343
).
4.
Countries of origin listed in descending order of predominance
Section 203(h)(6) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (
7 U.S.C. 1622(h)(6)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
a comparable size,
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting the following:
a comparable size—
(i)
the 1 or more names of the 1 or more countries of origin of the lot or container of honey, listed in descending order of predominance and preceded by the words
Product of
or other words of similar meaning;
(ii)
if the country of origin is listed as the United States, a statement clarifying the de minimis allowance specified in subparagraph (C); and
(iii)
a certificate, mark, or statement indicating that the honey meets the standard of identity established under section 2 of the HIVE Act.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
De minimis allowance
In the case of honey that lists, pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii), the United States as the country of origin of such honey, the producer of such honey shall not be in violation of the requirements of such subparagraph if 95 percent of such honey has a United States country of origin and contains not more than a de minimis amount (not to exceed 5 percent) of honey from any other country (or countries) of origin.
.
