1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ukraine Aid Oversight Act
.
2.
Report on international assistance for Ukraine
(a)
Report
(1)
In general
The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of State, and the Office of Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development shall submit to Congress and make publicly available on a quarterly basis a report on international assistance for Ukraine, including recommendations on policy changes to ensure increased oversight of such assistance, any other matters relating to oversight of such assistance, and that such assistance is being used in accordance with applicable law.
(2)
Matters to be included
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include at a minimum the following:
(A)
An update as to the sufficiency of the oversight frameworks being used and whether there are any gaps in oversight over the activities and funds for assistance to Ukraine.
(B)
A notification of any failures by United States, bilateral, or multilateral organizations to work with such Inspectors General in a timely and transparent manner.
(C)
An updated description of the footprint in Europe of such Inspectors General for purposes of oversight of assistance to Ukraine, including presence and access in Ukraine.
(D)
A description of any known incidents of the misuse of assistance to Ukraine, including incidents of waste, fraud, abuse, diversion, or corruption.
(E)
Any lessons learned from the manner in which oversight over assistance to Ukraine has been conducted.
(F)
Any findings or recommendations with respect to assistance to Ukraine.
(G)
A list of acquisitions in which the Department of Defense used sole source contracting authority.
(H)
Any legislative or budgetary assistance to better help conduct oversight of assistance to Ukraine.
(3)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) may contain a classified appendix if necessary.
(b)
Staff
(1)
In general
Each Office of Inspector General listed in subsection (a) shall designate at least one staff member of each such Office to be deployed on the ground in Ukraine for purposes of assisting in preparing the report required by subsection (a).
(2)
Additional staff
Each Office of Inspector General listed in subsection (a) may, without regard to sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States Code, recruit and appoint candidates to fill temporary and term appointments within such Office upon a determination that those expedited procedures are necessary and appropriate to enable such Office to carry out this Act.
(3)
Accommodations
The Secretary of State shall make proper and necessary accommodations for the arrival of the personnel described in this subsection.
(c)
Sunset
This Act shall terminate on the later of—
(1)
January 1, 2030; or
(2)
the date on which the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development certify to Congress that the war and post-war reconstruction efforts in Ukraine have ended.
