1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Working Dog Health and Welfare Act of 2024
.
2.
Implementation of working dog recommendations
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
(A)
In general
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(B)
Inclusions
Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) through (D) of section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code, the term
agency
includes—
(i)
the Congress;
(ii)
the courts of the United States;
(iii)
the governments of the territories or possessions of the United States; and
(iv)
the government of the District of Columbia.
(2)
Working dog
The term
working dog
means a dog that has received specialized training in order to perform a particular productive function.
(3)
Working dog program
The term
working dog program
means a program, the operations of which include the employment of working dogs.
(4)
Working dog recommendations
The term
working dog recommendations
means the recommendations included in the report of the Government Accountability Office entitled
Working Dogs: Federal Agencies Need to Better Address Health and Welfare
, as published in October 2022.
(b)
Implementation
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the head of each agency that manages a working dog program shall implement the working dog recommendations.
(2)
Contractors
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a contractor that manages a working dog program on behalf of an agency shall implement the working dog recommendations.
(3)
Report
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the head of an agency or a contractor that manages a working dog program on behalf of a covered agency implements working dog recommendations under this subsection, the head of the agency shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives a report on the explicit steps the agency or contractor has taken to complete the implementation.
(c)
Foreign partners
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall take appropriate steps to ensure that donations of working dogs provided to foreign partners by the Department of State are executed and monitored according to the working dog recommendations.
(d)
New working dog programs
With respect to an agency that establishes a working dog program, or enters into a contract for the establishment of a working dog program, after the date of enactment of this Act, the head of the agency shall ensure that the working dog program implements the working dog recommendations.
