Executive  —Amendment to   to Low-Value Imports From  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

.

 

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports with a Reciprocal Tariff to   that   to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I declared a national emergency arising from conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, and imposed additional

ad  

duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate to deal with that unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , to the national security and economy of  . Section 4(b) of Executive Order   provided that "[s]hould any trading partner retaliate against   in response to this action through import duties on   exports or other measures, I may further modify the [Harmonized Tariff Schedule of  ] to increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action." I further declared pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in   as Applied to Low-Value Imports) that duty-free

de minimis

treatment on articles described in section 2(a) of Executive Order   is no longer available effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

On  ,   of   ( ) announced that in response to Executive Order  , effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , a 34 percent tariff would be imposed on all goods imported into the   originating from  . Pursuant to section 4(b) of Executive Order  , I am ordering modification of   of   (HTSUS) and taking other actions to increase the duties imposed on the   in response to this retaliation. In my judgment, this modification is necessary and appropriate to effectively address the threat to the national security and economy of  .

 . 2

.

Tariff Increase

. In recognition of the fact that the   has announced that it will retaliate against   in response to Executive Order  , the   shall be modified as follows. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  

(a) heading 9903.01.63 of the   shall be amended by deleting "34%" each place that it appears and by inserting "84%" in lieu thereof; and

(b) subdivision (v)(xiii)(10) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall be amended by deleting "34%", and inserting "84%" in lieu thereof.

 . 3

.

 

. To ensure that the imposition of tariffs pursuant to section 2 of this order is not circumvented and that the purpose of Executive Order   and this action is not undermined, I also deem it necessary and appropriate to:

(a) increase the

ad  

rate of duty set forth in section 2(c)(i) of Executive Order   from 30 percent to 90 percent;

(b) increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section 2(c)(ii) of Executive Order   that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , and before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , from 25 dollars to 75 dollars; and

(c) increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section 2(c)(ii) of Executive Order   that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , from 50 dollars to 150 dollars.

 . 4

.

Implementation

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , as applicable, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Chair of the International Trade Commission, are directed to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order, consistent with applicable law, including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or notices in  and adopting rules and regulations, and are authorized to take such actions, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement this order.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
