Executive Order  —Restoring Common Sense to  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The   people are spread across more than 3.8 million square miles in urban, suburban, and rural areas. To provide the highest quality services in an efficient and cost-effective manner, executive departments and agencies (agencies) must be where the people are.

President   signed Executive Order 12072 of   ( ), ordering   to prioritize central business districts when siting Federal facilities in urban areas. Intended to improve these districts, President  's order has instead prevented agencies from relocating to lower-cost facilities.

Building on Executive Order  , President   signed Executive Order   of   (  in Our Nation's Central Cities), to encourage agencies to locate their facilities in historic properties and districts, especially when located in central business areas. Much like President  's order, President  's order failed to adequately prioritize efficient and effective Government service.

Revoking these orders will restore common sense to Federal office space management by freeing agencies to select cost-effective facilities and focus on successfully carrying out their missions for   taxpayers.

 . 2

.

Revoking Executive Orders

. (a) Executive Order   is hereby revoked.

(b) Executive Order   is hereby revoked.

(c)   is directed to initiate the process to amend the regulations at title 41, parts 102-79 and 102-83, Code of Federal Regulations, and to take any other steps necessary in accordance with applicable law to conform Federal office space management policy with this order.

(d) Agencies that acquire or utilize federally owned or leased space under authority other than   of   (40 U.S.C. 101

et seq

.), as amended, shall conform to the provisions of this order to the extent consistent with applicable law.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
