Executive Order  —  by Filling the Strategic Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Reserve
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

. During my first term, my Administration acted to protect the health and security of the   people by restoring capacity for domestic production of essential pharmaceutical products. Executive Order   of   (  by  ,  , and   in  ), directed certain executive departments and agencies (agencies) to consider a variety of actions to increase their domestic procurement of  ,  , and  , as defined in section 7 of that order, and to identify supply chain vulnerabilities.   published a list of  , and   in  .   Secretary for   and Response (ASPR) within   later reduced the list to 86 essential medicines.

Nearly two in five prescription finished drug products are made in  , including many of the essential medicines. However, when it comes to   (APIs), the biologically active components of finished drug products, only about 10 percent of the APIs by volume for the finished drug products used in   are made here.

During my first term, my   created a Strategic Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Reserve ( ) to stockpile APIs. Stockpiling APIs is advantageous as APIs are generally lower-cost and have longer shelf lives than the finished drug products they make. Filling the   will also insulate   from the concentration of foreign, sometimes adversary, nations in the world-wide supply of   used to make APIs. Moreover, Government purchases of APIs to fill the   can encourage more domestic production of APIs.

Unfortunately,   failed to advance the goal of ensuring domestic sources for essential medicines and their precursors despite spending billions of dollars on efforts to secure supply chains. Domestic production and procurement did not increase and the   is nearly empty.

 . 2. Filling the   with APIs for the Most Critical Medicines

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the ASPR shall develop a list, in consultation with agencies with scientific expertise, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy ( ), and the Assistant to the President and   ( ), of approximately 26 drugs that are especially critical to the health and security interests of the Nation (the critical drugs) and an accounting of existing, available funds that can be utilized, consistent with statutory authorities, to finance the preparation and opening of the   repository and to obtain and maintain the   supply of APIs for the critical drugs referenced in subsection (c) of this section shall be provided to the Director of   (OMB). The OMB shall provide assistance to the Secretary of   to facilitate the repurposing of available funds, consistent with law.

(b) Within   of this order and subject to the availability of funds identified pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the ASPR shall, in coordination with such other agencies as are necessary, take all measures to ready the existing   repository so that it can begin receiving and maintaining APIs.

(c) Subject to the availability of funds identified pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the ASPR shall obtain a   supply of the APIs needed to make the critical drugs to fill the  , with a preference for obtaining domestically manufactured APIs if possible. The ASPR shall place such APIs within the   repository   after the repository is certified by the   as ready to receive and maintain APIs.

 . 3. Ensuring SAPIR Resilience

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the ASPR shall provide the  , the  , and the OMB with an update to the  's 2022 list of 86 essential medicines and medical countermeasures, along with a plan to:

(i) obtain from domestic manufacturers, where possible;

(ii) store; and

(iii) maintain a   supply of APIs for drugs on the updated essential medicines list if they have not already been addressed in the list of critical drugs identified pursuant to section 2(a) of this order.

(b) The plan provided pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall include a proposal and cost estimate for opening a second   repository in   within   of the date of this order.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
