Executive Order  —Further Exclusions From  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 7103(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, to enhance the national security of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Determinations

. The agencies and agency subdivisions set forth in section 2 of this order are hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is also hereby determined that Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, cannot be applied to these agencies and agency subdivisions in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.

 . 2.  

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by:

(a) In section 1–408, adding at the end:

"(e) Units in   with primary responsibility for operating, managing, or maintaining hydropower facilities.";

(b) Revising section 1–411 to read:

"1–411. Agencies or subdivisions of  

(a)  .

(b) Office of the Commissioner for Patents and subordinate units,  .

(c) The following subdivisions of  :

(1)  , Data, and Information Service.

(2) National Weather Service."; and

(c) Adding the following after section 1–419:

"1–420.  .

1–421.   for Global Media.".

 . 3. Extension of Deadline

. Any order published by   and   pursuant to section 4 of Executive Order   of   (Exclusions from  ), shall have full force and effect if it is issued prior to the date that is   from the date of this order, notwithstanding section 4(b)(ii) of Executive Order  .

 . 4. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
