Executive Order  —Declaring a Crime Emergency in  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 740 of   Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act (Public Law 93–198), as amended (section 740 of the Home Rule Act), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Crime is out of control in  

.  ,  , is our  's capital and home to the central institutions of   governance. Yet rising violence in the capital now urgently endangers public servants, citizens, and tourists, disrupts safe and secure transportation and the proper functioning of  , and forces the diversion of critical public resources toward emergency response and security measures. The city government's failure to maintain public order and safety has had a dire impact on   ability to operate efficiently to address the  's broader interests without fear of our workers being subjected to rampant violence.

The increase in violent crime in the heart of our   has consequences beyond the individual tragedies that have dominated media coverage. Such lawlessness also poses intolerable risks to the vital Federal functions that take place in  . Violence and crime hamper the recruitment and retention of essential Federal employees, undermine critical functions of Government and thus the well-being of the entire  , and erode confidence in the strength of  . These conditions are disgraceful anywhere, but particularly in the capital of our   and the seat of  . Citizens, tourists, and Federal workers deserve peace and security, not fear and violence. The smooth functioning of executive departments and agencies, courts, diplomatic missions, and   demands an effective law-enforcement mechanism capable of halting the precipitous rise in violent crime, not one that permits Government workers to be violently attacked by mobs or fatally shot close to the Federal buildings where they work.

The magnitude of the violent crime crisis places the District of Columbia among the most violent jurisdictions in  . In  ,   averaged one of the highest robbery and murder rates of large cities nationwide. Indeed,   now has a higher violent crime, murder, and robbery rate than all 50  , recording a homicide rate in   of 27.54 per 100,000 residents. It also experienced the  's highest vehicle theft rate with 842.4 thefts per 100,000 residents—over three times the national average of 250.2 thefts per 100,000 residents.   is, by some measures, among the top 20 percent of the most dangerous cities in the world.

As President, I have a solemn duty to take care that our laws are faithfully executed, and a sacred responsibility to protect the safety and security of   citizens who live in and visit our  's capital, including Federal workers who live or commute into  . These conditions cannot persist. We will make   one of the safest cities in the world, not the most dangerous.

 . 2. Services of   of the District of Columbia

. I determine that special conditions of an emergency nature exist that require the use of   of   (  force) for Federal purposes, including maintaining law and order in the  's seat of  ; protecting Federal buildings, national monuments, and other Federal property; and ensuring conditions necessary for the orderly functioning of  . Effective immediately, the Mayor of   (Mayor) shall provide the services of   force for Federal purposes for the maximum period permitted under section 740 of the Home Rule Act.

 . 3. Operational Control of   of the District of Columbia

. (a) The authority of the President conferred by section 740(a) of the Home Rule Act to direct the Mayor with respect to the current special conditions of an emergency nature is delegated to the Attorney General.

(b) In accordance with section 740(a) of the Home Rule Act, the Mayor shall provide such services of   force as the Attorney General may deem necessary and appropriate.

 . 4. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Attorney General shall monitor and regularly consult with any senior official the Attorney General deems appropriate on the special conditions of an emergency nature that exist in   that require the use of   force for Federal purposes.

(b) The Attorney General shall regularly update me on the status of the special conditions of an emergency nature that exist in   that require the use of   force for Federal purposes.

(c) The Attorney General shall inform me of any circumstances that, in the Attorney General's opinion, might indicate the need for further action by the President or that the action in this order is no longer necessary.

 . 5. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 6. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
