Executive Order  —Addressing Threats to   by  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. Executive   of   (Prohibiting Certain Imports and New Investments With Respect to   the Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine), expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   (Blocking Property With Respect To Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of  ), to include the actions taken against   by  . To address that unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , Executive   prohibited, among other things, the importation into   of certain products of   origin, including crude oil; petroleum; and petroleum fuels, oils, and products of their distillation.

I have received additional information from various senior officials on, among other things, the actions of   with respect to the situation in  . After considering this additional information, among other things, I find that the national emergency described in Executive   continues and that the actions and policies of   continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  .

To deal with the national emergency described in Executive Order  , I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to impose an additional

ad  

duty on imports of articles of  , which is directly or indirectly importing   oil. In my judgment, imposing tariffs, as described below, in addition to maintaining the other measures taken to address the national emergency described in Executive  , will more effectively deal with the national emergency described in Executive Order  .

 . 2. Imposition of Tariffs

. (a) I find that   is currently directly or indirectly importing   oil.

(b) Accordingly, and as consistent with applicable law, articles of   imported into the customs territory of   shall be subject to an additional

ad  

rate of duty of 25 percent. Subject to section 3 of this order, this rate of duty shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time   after the date of this order, except for goods that (1) were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the final mode of transit prior to entry into   before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time   after the date of this order; and (2) are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, before 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  .

 . 3. Scope of Duties and Stacking

. (a) The

ad  

duty imposed in section 2 of this order shall be in addition to any other duties, fees, taxes, exactions, and charges applicable to such imports, unless subject to existing or future actions under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , in which case the

ad  

duty imposed in this order shall not apply.

(b) The

ad  

duty imposed in section 2 of this order shall not apply to articles that are excepted by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b).

(c) The

ad  

duty imposed in section 2 of this order shall not apply to articles that are set forth in Annex II to Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), as amended.

(d) The

ad  

duty imposed in Executive Order  , as amended, shall apply in addition to the

ad  

duty imposed in section 2 of this order, when applicable pursuant to the terms of Executive Order  .

(e) Except for those articles that are eligible for admission under "domestic status" as defined in 19  , articles that are subject to the duty imposed in section 2 of this order and are admitted into a foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time   after the date of this order must be admitted as "privileged foreign status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.

 . 4.  

. (a) To ensure that the emergency described in section 1 of this order is dealt with, I may modify this order, including in light of additional information, recommendations from senior officials, or changed circumstances.

(b) Should a foreign country retaliate against   in response to this action, I may modify this order to ensure the efficacy of the actions herein ordered.

(c) Should the Government of   or a foreign country impacted by this order take significant steps to address the national emergency described in section 1 of this order and align sufficiently with   on national security, foreign policy, and economic matters, I may further modify this order.

 . 5. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and any other senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate, shall determine whether any other country is directly or indirectly importing   oil. If the Secretary of   finds that a country is directly or indirectly importing   oil, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall recommend whether and to what extent I should take action as to that country, including whether I should impose an additional

ad  

rate of duty of 25 percent on imports of articles of that country.

(b) The Secretary of   shall monitor and regularly consult with any senior official the Secretary of   deems appropriate on the emergency described in section 1 of this order.

(c) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary, if the actions in this order are not effective in resolving the emergency described in section 1 of this order or should the Government of   or another foreign country retaliate against   in response to the actions taken in this order or any subsequent order issued to address the emergency described in section 1 of this order.

 . 6. Delegation

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to carry out this order.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with  , shall determine whether modifications to   of   are necessary to effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in  .

(c)   and Border Protection may take any necessary or appropriate measure to administer a duty imposed by this order or any action taken pursuant to this order.

 . 7. Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "  oil" means crude oil or petroleum products extracted, refined, or exported from  , regardless of the nationality of the entity involved in the production or sale of such crude oil or petroleum products.

(b) The term "indirectly importing" includes purchasing   oil through intermediaries or third countries where the origin of the oil can reasonably be traced to  , as determined by the Secretary of   in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  .

 . 8. Severability

. If any provision of this order or the application of any provision of this order to any individual or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

 . 9. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive

department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
