Executive Order  —Further Modifying Reciprocal Tariff Rates To Reflect Ongoing Discussions With  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff to   to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I found that conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, including the consequences of those exploding trade deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat, and to deal with that threat, I imposed certain

ad  

duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate.

In Executive Order   of   (Amendment to Reciprocal Tariffs and Updated Duties as Applied to Low-Value Imports From  ), and Executive Order 14266 of   (  to  ), I ordered modifications of   of   (HTSUS) to raise the applicable

ad  

duty rate for imports from   ( ) established in Executive Order  , in recognition of the fact that   of the   announced that it would retaliate against   in response to Executive Order   and Executive Order  .

Subsequently,   entered into discussions with the   to address the lack of trade reciprocity in our economic relationship and our resulting national and economic security concerns. Therefore, in Executive Order 14298 of   (  to Reflect Discussions With  ), I determined that it was necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order   by modifying the   to suspend for     application of the additional

ad  

duties imposed on the   listed in   I to Executive Order  , as amended, and to instead impose on articles of the   an additional

ad  

rate of duty as set forth in Executive Order  , pursuant to the terms of, and except as otherwise provided in, Executive Order  , as amended. This   suspension expires at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

  continues to have discussions with the   to address the lack of trade reciprocity in our economic relationship and our resulting national and economic security concerns. Through these discussions, the   continues to take significant steps toward remedying non-reciprocal trade arrangements and addressing the concerns of   relating to economic and national security matters. Based on this additional information and recommendations from various senior officials, among other things, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to continue the suspension effectuated by Executive Order   until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 2. Continued Suspension of Country-Specific Ad Valorem Rate of Duty

. Heading 9903.01.63 and subdivision (v)(xiv)(10) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall continue to be suspended until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 3. Implementation

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , as applicable, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor to the President for Trade and Manufacturing, the Chair of  , and  , are directed to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order, consistent with applicable law, including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or notices in  and adopting rules and regulations, and are authorized to take such actions, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement this order.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
