Executive Order  —Addressing Egregious Actions of  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. In shocking disregard of its citizens' rights,   ( ) recently enacted Expropriation Act 13 of 2024 (Act), to enable the government of   to seize ethnic minority  ' agricultural property without compensation. This Act follows countless government policies designed to dismantle equal opportunity in employment, education, and business, and hateful rhetoric and government actions fueling disproportionate violence against racially disfavored landowners.

In addition,   has taken aggressive positions towards   and its allies, including accusing  , not  , of genocide in  , and reinvigorating its relations with   to develop commercial, military, and nuclear arrangements.

  cannot support the government of   commission of rights violations in its country or its 'undermining   foreign policy, which poses national security threats to our  , our allies, our   partners, and our interests.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   that, as long as   continues these unjust and immoral practices that harm our Nation:

(a)   shall not provide aid or assistance to  ; and

(b)   shall promote the resettlement of   refugees escaping government-sponsored race-based discrimination, including racially discriminatory property confiscation.

 . 3

.

Assistance

. (a) All executive departments and agencies (agencies), including   International Development, shall, to the maximum extent allowed by law, halt foreign aid or assistance delivered or provided to  , and shall promptly exercise all available authorities and discretion to halt such aid or assistance.

(b) The head of each agency may permit the provision of any such foreign aid or assistance that, in the discretion of the relevant agency head, is necessary or appropriate.

 . 4

.

Refugee Resettlement and Other Humanitarian Considerations

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall take appropriate steps, consistent with law, to prioritize humanitarian relief, including admission and resettlement through  , for   in   who are victims of unjust racial discrimination. Such plan shall be submitted to the President through the Assistant to the President and  .

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
