Executive Order  —Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the sustained influx of illicit opioids and other drugs has profound consequences on our  , endangering lives and putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, public services, and communities.

This challenge threatens the fabric of our society.   members, smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured across our borders and into our communities.   has played a central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote sufficient attention and resources or meaningfully coordinate with   law enforcement partners to effectively stem the tide of illicit drugs.

Drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world's leading producers of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other illicit drugs, and they cultivate, process, and distribute massive quantities of narcotics that fuel addiction and violence in communities across  . These DTOs often collaborate with transnational cartels to smuggle illicit drugs into  , utilizing clandestine airstrips, maritime routes, and overland corridors.

The challenges at our southern border are foremost in the public consciousness, but our northern border is not exempt from these issues. Criminal networks are implicated in human trafficking and smuggling operations, enabling unvetted illegal migration across our northern border. There is also a growing presence of   cartels operating fentanyl and nitazene synthesis labs in  . The flow of illicit drugs like fentanyl to   through both illicit distribution networks and international mail—due, in the case of the latter, to the existing administrative exemption from duty and taxes, also known as

de minimis

, under section 1321 of title 19, United States Code—has created a public health crisis in  , as outlined in     ( ) and Executive Order   (Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specially Designated Global Terrorists). With respect to smuggling of illicit drugs across our northern border,  's   and   recently published a study on the laundering of proceeds of illicit synthetic opioids, which recognized  's heightened domestic production of fentanyl, largely from  , and its growing footprint within international narcotics distribution. Despite a   dialogue on the public health impacts of illicit drugs since  ,   officials have acknowledged that the problem has only grown. And while   ( ) within   seized, comparatively, much less fentanyl from   than from    ,   is so potent that even a very small parcel of the drug can cause many deaths and destruction to   families. In fact, the amount of fentanyl that crossed the northern border   could kill 9.5 million  .

Immediate action is required to finally end this public health crisis and national emergency, which will not happen unless the compliance and cooperation of   is assured.

I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

. (a) As President of  , my highest duty is the defense of the country and its citizens. A Nation without borders is not a nation at all. I will not stand by and allow our sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to be endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore.

I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave threat to   posed by the influx of illegal aliens and illicit drugs into   in   (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border). Pursuant to the  , I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in that Proclamation to cover the threat to the safety and security of  , including the public health crisis of deaths due to the use of fentanyl and other illicit drugs, and the failure of   to do more to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and drugs. In addition, this failure to act on the part of   constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside  , to the national security and foreign policy of  . I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency under the   and   to deal with that threat. This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad   tariffs on articles that are products of   set forth in this order. In doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of  , and specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat.

 . 2

. (a) All articles that are products of   as defined by  

notice described in subsection (e) of this section (

Federal Register

notice), and except for those products described in subsection (b) of this section, shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 25 percent ad   rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into   before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to   as specified in  

notice.

(b) With respect to energy or energy resources, as defined in section 8 of Executive Order   (Declaring a National Energy Emergency), and as otherwise included in  

notice, such articles that are products of   as defined by  

notice shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 10 percent ad   rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into   before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to   as specified in  

notice.

(c) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles.

(d) Should   retaliate against   in response to this action through import duties on   exports to   or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action.

(e) In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are products of  , the Secretary of   shall determine the modifications necessary to   of   (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the   through notice in  . The modifications made to the   by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , and shall continue in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.

(f) Articles that are products of  , except those that are eligible for admission under "domestic status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are admitted into a   foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except as otherwise noted in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, must be admitted as "privileged foreign status" as defined in 19   146.41. Such articles will be subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable   subheading in effect at the time of admittance into   foreign trade zone.

(g) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this order.

(h) For avoidance of doubt, duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C.   shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section.
