Executive Order  —Ensuring Accountability for All Agencies
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Policy and Purpose

. The Constitution vests all executive power in the President and charges him with faithfully executing the laws. Since it would be impossible for the President to single-handedly perform all the executive business of  , the Constitution also provides for subordinate officers to assist the President in his executive duties. In the exercise of their often-considerable authority, these executive branch officials remain subject to the President's ongoing supervision and control. The President in turn is regularly elected by and accountable to the   people. This is one of the structural safeguards, along with the separation of powers between the executive and legislative branches, regular elections for the  , and an independent judiciary whose judges are appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the  , by which the   created a Government accountable to the   people.

However, previous administrations have allowed so-called "independent regulatory agencies" to operate with minimal Presidential supervision. These regulatory agencies currently exercise substantial executive authority without sufficient accountability to the President, and through him, to the   people. Moreover, these regulatory agencies have been permitted to promulgate significant regulations without review by the President.

These practices undermine such regulatory agencies' accountability to the   people and prevent a unified and coherent execution of Federal law. For   to be truly accountable to the   people, officials who wield vast executive power must be supervised and controlled by the people's elected President.

Therefore, in order to improve the administration of the executive branch and to increase regulatory officials' accountability to the   people, it shall be the policy of the executive branch to ensure Presidential supervision and control of the entire executive branch. Moreover, all executive departments and agencies, including so-called independent agencies, shall submit for review all proposed and final significant regulatory actions to   (OIRA) within   of the President before publication in  .

 . 2

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "employees" shall have the meaning given that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code.

(b) The term "independent regulatory agency" shall have the meaning given that term in  ) of title  , United States Code. This order shall not apply to   of   or to   in its conduct of monetary policy. This order shall apply to   of   only in connection with its conduct and authorities directly related to its supervision and regulation of financial institutions.

(c) The term "independent regulatory agency chairman" shall mean, with regard to a multi-member independent regulatory agency, the chairman of such agency, and shall mean, with regard to a single-headed independent regulatory agency, such agency's chairman, director, or other presiding officer.

(d) The term "head" of an independent regulatory agency shall mean those appointed to supervise independent regulatory agencies and in whom the agencies' authorities are generally vested, encompassing the chairman, director, or other presiding officer, and, as applicable, other members, commissioners, or similar such officials with responsibility for supervising such agencies.

 . 3

.

 

. (a) Section 3(b) of Executive Order   ("Regulatory Planning and Review"), as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(b) "Agency," unless otherwise indicated, means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), and shall also include  . This order shall not apply to   of   or to   in its conduct of monetary policy. This order shall apply to   of   only in connection with its conduct and authorities directly related to its supervision and regulation of financial institutions.".

(b) The Director of   (OMB) shall provide guidance on implementation of this order to the heads of executive departments and agencies newly submitting regulatory actions under section 3(b) of Executive Order  . Agency submissions by independent regulatory agencies under such section shall commence within   from the date of this order, or completion of such implementation guidance.

 . 4

.

Performance Standards and Management Objectives

. The Director of OMB shall establish performance standards and management objectives for independent agency heads, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, and report periodically to the President on their performance and efficiency in attaining such standards and objectives.

 . 5

.

Apportionments for Independent Regulatory Agencies

. The Director of OMB shall, on an ongoing basis:

(a) review independent regulatory agencies' obligations for consistency with the President's policies and priorities; and

(b) consult with independent regulatory agency chairmen and adjust such agencies' apportionments by activity, function, project, or object, as necessary and appropriate, to advance the President's policies and priorities. Such adjustments to apportionments may prohibit independent regulatory agencies from expending appropriations on particular activities, functions, projects, or objects, so long as such restrictions are consistent with law.

 . 6

.

Additional Consultation with   of the President

. (a) Subject to subsection (b), independent regulatory agency chairmen shall regularly consult with and coordinate policies and priorities with the directors of OMB,  , and  .

(b) The heads of independent regulatory agencies shall establish a position of     in their respective agencies. Such position shall be in grade 15 of the General   and shall be placed in Schedule C of the excepted service.

(c) Independent regulatory agency chairmen shall submit agency strategic plans developed pursuant to the Government Performance and Results Act of   to the Director of OMB for clearance prior to finalization.

 . 7

.

Rules of Conduct Guiding Federal Employees' Interpretation of the Law

. The President and the Attorney General, subject to the President's supervision and control, shall provide authoritative interpretations of law for the executive branch. The President and the Attorney General's opinions on questions of law are controlling on all employees in the conduct of their official duties. No employee of the executive branch acting in their official capacity may advance an interpretation of the law as the position of   that contravenes the President or the Attorney General's opinion on a matter of law, including but not limited to the issuance of regulations, guidance, and positions advanced in litigation, unless authorized to do so by the President or in writing by the Attorney General.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
