Executive Order  —Ensuring Lawful Governance and Implementing the President's " " Deregulatory Initiative
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. It is the policy of my Administration to focus the executive branch's limited enforcement resources on regulations squarely authorized by constitutional Federal statutes, and to commence the deconstruction of the overbearing and burdensome administrative state.   overreach and restoring the constitutional separation of powers is a priority of my Administration.

 . 2

.

Rescinding Unlawful Regulations and Regulations That Undermine  . (a) Agency heads shall, in coordination with their   and the Director of  , initiate a process to review all regulations subject to their sole or joint jurisdiction for consistency with law and Administration policy. Within   of this order, agency heads shall, in consultation with the Attorney General as appropriate, identify the following classes of regulations:

(i) unconstitutional regulations and regulations that raise serious constitutional difficulties, such as exceeding the scope of the power vested in   by the Constitution;

(ii) regulations that are based on unlawful delegations of legislative power;

(iii) regulations that are based on anything other than the best reading of the underlying statutory authority or prohibition;

(iv) regulations that implicate matters of social, political, or economic significance that are not authorized by clear statutory authority;

(v) regulations that impose significant costs upon private parties that are not outweighed by public benefits;

(vi) regulations that harm the national interest by significantly and unjustifiably impeding technological innovation, infrastructure development, disaster response, inflation reduction, research and development, economic development, energy production, land use, and foreign policy objectives; and

(vii) regulations that impose undue burdens on small business and impede private enterprise and entrepreneurship.

(b) In conducting the review required by subsection (a) of this section, agencies shall prioritize review of those rules that satisfy the definition of "significant regulatory action" in Executive Order   ( ), as amended.

(c) Within   of this order, agency heads shall provide to   (OIRA) within   a list of all regulations identified by class as listed in subsection (a) of this section.

(d) The Administrator of OIRA shall consult with agency heads to develop a Unified   that seeks to rescind or modify these regulations, as appropriate.

 . 3

.

Enforcement Discretion to Ensure Lawful Governance

. (a) Subject to their paramount obligation to discharge their legal obligations, protect public safety, and advance the national interest, agencies shall preserve their limited enforcement resources by generally de-prioritizing actions to enforce regulations that are based on anything other than the best reading of a statute and de-prioritizing actions to enforce regulations that go beyond the powers vested in   by the Constitution.

(b) Agency heads shall determine whether ongoing enforcement of any regulations identified in their regulatory review is compliant with law and Administration policy. To preserve resources and ensure lawful enforcement, agency heads, in consultation with the Director of  , shall, on a case-by-case basis and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, then direct the termination of all such enforcement proceedings that do not comply with the Constitution, laws, or Administration policy.

 . 4

.

Promulgation of New Regulations

. Agencies shall continue to follow the processes set out in Executive Order   for submitting regulations for review by  . Additionally, agency heads shall consult with their   and the Administrator of OIRA on potential new regulations as soon as practicable. In evaluating potential new regulations, agency heads,  , and   shall consider, in addition to the factors set out in Executive Order  , the factors set out in section 2(a) of this order.

 . 5

.

Implementation

. The Director of   shall issue implementation guidance, as appropriate.

 . 6

.

Definitions

. (a) "Agency" has the meaning given to it in 44 U.S.C.  , except it does not include   of the President or its components.

(b) "Agency head" shall mean the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director.

(c) "DOGE Team Lead" shall mean the leader of   at each agency as described in Executive Order   (Establishing and Implementing the President's " ").

(d) "Enforcement action" means all attempts, civil or criminal, by any agency to deprive a private party of life, liberty, or property, or in any way affect a private party's rights or obligations, regardless of the label the agency has historically placed on the action.

(e) "Regulation" shall have the meaning given to "regulatory action" in section 3(e) of Executive Order  , and also includes any "guidance document" as defined in Executive Order   of   (Further Amendment to Executive Order   on  ).

(f) "Senior appointee" means an individual appointed by the President, or performing the functions and duties of an office that requires appointment by the President, or a non-career member of   (or equivalent agency system).

 . 7

.

Exemptions

. Notwithstanding any other provision in this order, nothing in this order shall apply to:

(a) any action related to a military, national security, homeland security, foreign affairs, or immigration-related function of  ;

(b) any matter pertaining to the executive branch's management of its employees; or

(c) anything else exempted by the Director of  .

 . 8

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
