Executive Order 14189—Celebrating America's 250th Birthday
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in anticipation of the 250th anniversary of   on  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. It is the policy of  , and a purpose of this order, to provide a grand celebration worthy of the momentous occasion of the 250th anniversary of   on  . It is also the purpose of this order to take other actions to honor the history of our great Nation.

Sec. 2

.

Establishing   250th Birthday

. (a) There is hereby established   250th Birthday (Task Force 250).

(b) The President shall be   and the Vice President will serve as Vice Chair. The   shall appoint an Executive Director, who shall administer and execute the day-to-  operations of Task Force 250, and who shall report through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. The Chair, the Vice Chair, or a member of Task Force 250 designated by the  , shall convene regular meetings of Task Force 250, determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order. The Executive Director and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall assist in the performance of these duties. The   may designate any member of   to preside over meetings of  .

(c) In addition to the   and Vice Chair, Task Force 250 shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of the  ;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(ix) the Deputy Chief of Staff for  ;

(x) the   Secretary and Deputy Chief of Staff;

(xi) the Director of Speechwriting;

(xii) the Chair of  ;

(xiii) the Chair of  ;

( ) the Director of  ; and

(xv) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the   or the Vice Chair may, from time to time, designate or invite to participate.

(d) The Chair and the Vice Chair, as they deem appropriate, shall invite the Executive Director of   to provide recommendations and advice to Task Force 250.

(e) Task Force 250 shall coordinate with the executive departments and agencies (agencies) to plan, organize, and execute an extraordinary celebration of   of   and shall coordinate agencies' communications with  . In addition, the Executive Director may seek information or advice from such other agencies as Task Force 250 shall direct.

(f) For administrative purposes, the Task Force shall be housed in  , which shall provide funding and administrative support for Task Force 250, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(g) Agencies shall provide a report to Task Force 250 regarding their respective planning and activities with respect to the celebration of   of   Independence. These reports should be submitted to the Executive Director of Task Force 250 no later than March 1,  .

(h) Task Force 250 shall terminate on  , unless extended by the President.

 . 3

.

National Garden of American Heroes

. (a) Executive Order   (Building and Rebuilding Monuments to   Heroes) and Executive Order   of   ( ) are reinstated as they were prior to issuance of Executive Order   of  .

(b) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall recommend to the President additional historically significant   for inclusion in the National Garden of American Heroes, to bring the total number of heroes to 250.

(c) Section 3(c)(ii) of Executive Order   is amended by striking "prior to the 250th anniversary of the proclamation of the Declaration of Independence on  " and inserting in its place "as expeditiously as possible".

 . 4

.

  Monuments from Vandalism

. Executive Order   of   (   , and   and Combatting Recent Criminal Violence) is hereby reinstated as it was prior to the issuance of Executive Order   of  . Recent examples of conduct necessitating reinstatement of this order include  -related vandalism of historically significant public monuments and related assaults on Federal officers and employees following  , including the vandalism of the exterior of   and of statues in Lafayette Square in  ,   on  , and the assaults on Federal officers and vandalism of   and   at   in  ,   on  .

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
