Executive Order  —  to American Leadership in  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.   has long been at the forefront of artificial intelligence (AI) innovation, driven by the strength of our free markets, world-class research institutions, and entrepreneurial spirit. To maintain this leadership, we must develop   systems that are free from ideological bias or engineered social agendas. With the right Government policies, we can solidify our position as the global leader in   and secure a brighter future for all  .

This order revokes certain existing   policies and directives that act as barriers to   innovation, clearing a path for   to act decisively to retain global leadership in artificial intelligence.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to sustain and enhance  's global   dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.

 . 3

.

Definition

. For the purposes of this order, "artificial intelligence" or "AI" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3).

 . 4

.

Developing  

. (a) Within   of this order, the Assistant to the President for   ( ),   and  , and the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Director of   (OMB Director), and the heads of such executive departments and agencies (agencies) as the   and APNSA deem relevant, shall develop and submit to the President an action plan to achieve the policy set forth in section 2 of this order.

 . 5

.

Implementation of Order Revocation

. (a) The  , the Special Advisor for AI and  , and the APNSA shall immediately review, in coordination with the heads of all agencies as they deem relevant, all policies, directives, regulations, orders, and other actions taken pursuant to the revoked Executive Order   (Safe, Secure, and   and Use of Artificial Intelligence). The  , the Special Advisor for AI and  , and the APNSA shall, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, identify any actions taken pursuant to Executive Order   that are or may be inconsistent with, or present obstacles to, the policy set forth in section 2 of this order. For any such agency actions identified, the heads of agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, suspend, revise, or rescind such actions, or propose suspending, revising, or rescinding such actions. If in any case such suspension, revision, or rescission cannot be finalized immediately, the   and the heads of agencies shall promptly take steps to provide all available exemptions authorized by any such orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, until such action can be finalized.

(b) Within   of this order, the   Director, in coordination with the  , shall revise OMB Memoranda   and M-24-18 as necessary to make them consistent with the policy set forth in section 2 of this order.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
