Executive Order  —Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), I declared a national emergency arising from certain conditions, including the public health crisis caused by fentanyl and other illicit drugs, and the failure of   to do more to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept drug trafficking organizations, other drug or human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs. In that order, I found that those conditions constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside  , to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  .

To deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  , I imposed an additional ad   rate of duty of 25 percent on certain articles that are products of   and an additional ad   rate of duty of 10 percent on certain energy or energy resources that are products of  . In Executive Order  Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), I provided that the additional ad   rates of duties under Executive Order   do not apply to articles that are products of   that qualify for duty-free entry under the Agreement between  ,  , and   ( ), and I reduced the additional ad   rate of duty on potash from 25 percent to 10 percent.

Section 2(d) of Executive Order   provides that "[s]hould   retaliate against   . . . through import duties on   exports to   or similar measures," I "may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed . . . to ensure the efficacy of th[e] action" taken in Executive Order  . Section 3(b) of Executive Order   provides that the Secretary of  , in coordination with other senior officials, "shall recommend additional action, if necessary, should   fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crises through cooperative enforcement actions."

I have received additional information and recommendations from various senior officials regarding, among other things,  's lack of cooperation in stemming the flood of fentanyl and other illicit drugs across our northern border—including its failure to devote satisfactory resources to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept drug trafficking organizations, other drug or human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs—and  's efforts to retaliate against   in response to Executive Order  , as amended. After considering the additional information and recommendations that I have received, among other things, I have determined that, for the products of   that are subject to the additional ad   rate of duty of 25 percent, the additional ad   rate of duty shall increase from 25 percent to 35 percent. In my judgment, this action is necessary and appropriate to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

 . 2. Implementation

. (a) All articles that are subject to the additional ad   rate of duty of 25 percent under Executive Order  , as amended, shall instead be subject to an additional ad   rate of duty of 35 percent. Accordingly, the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS) shall be modified as provided in the   to this order.

(b) The changes set forth herein shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  .

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to alter or otherwise affect section 2(b) of Executive Order   or section 2(a) or section 2(b) of Executive Order  .

(d) The stacking rules set out in Executive Order   of   (Addressing Certain Tariffs on Imported Articles), and any subsequent order or proclamation addressing stacking of tariffs imposed under  , shall continue to apply to goods that are subject to subsection (a) of this section.

(e) The Secretary of  , in consultation with  , shall determine whether any additional modifications to the   are necessary to effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in  .

 . 3. Transshipment

. (a) All articles of   that do not qualify as originating under   and are determined by   ( ) to have been transshipped to evade applicable duties under section 2 of this order shall be subject to (i) an additional ad   rate of duty of 40 percent, in lieu of the additional ad   rate of duty applicable under section 2 of this order to goods of the country of origin; (ii) any other applicable or appropriate fine or penalty, including those assessed under 19 U.S.C.  ; and (iii) any other   duties, fees, taxes, exactions, or charges applicable to goods of the country of origin.   shall not allow, consistent with applicable law, for mitigation or remission of the penalties assessed on imports found to be transshipped to evade applicable duties.

(b) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , acting through the Commissioner of  , in consultation with  , shall publish   a list of countries and specific facilities used in circumvention schemes, to inform public procurement, national security reviews, and commercial due diligence.

 . 4. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of   shall continue to monitor, and regularly consult with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Assistant to the President for  , on the situation at our northern border. The Secretary of   shall inform the President of any circumstances that, in her opinion, might indicate the need for further action by the President. The Secretary of   shall also inform the President of any circumstance that, in her opinion, might indicate that   has taken adequate steps to alleviate the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

(b) The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Assistant to the President for  , shall recommend additional action, if necessary, should   fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illicit drug crisis or should   retaliate against   in response to the actions taken in Executive Order   or any subsequent order issued to address the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

 . 5. Delegation

. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 6. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision of this order to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

 . 7. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive

department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

Annex

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS) is modified as follows:

(a) Heading 9903.01.10 of the   is amended by deleting "25%" each place that it appears and by inserting "35%" in lieu thereof; and

(b) Subdivision (j) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   is amended by:

(i) deleting "25%" and inserting "35%" in  , and

(ii) deleting "described in headings  ,  ,  , and 9903.01.15" and inserting "described in headings  ,  ,  , 9903.01.15 and 9903.01.16" in lieu thereof.

(c) Note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   is modified by inserting new subdivision (m) in alphabetical order:

"(m) For the purposes of heading 9903.01.16, products of   that do not qualify as originating under  Mexico Free Trade Agreement ( ) and are determined by   (" ") to have been transshipped to evade applicable duties provided for by headings  , 9903.01.13, or 9903.01.15 shall be subject to an additional 40% ad   rate of duty in lieu of the additional rate of duty provided for in headings  , 9903.01.13, or 9903.01.15. Heading 9903.01.16 does not apply to products described in headings  ,  , and  , or products for personal use included in accompanied baggage of persons arriving in  . Notwithstanding   note 1 to this subchapter, all products of   that are subject to the additional ad   rate of duty imposed by heading 9903.01.16 shall also be subject to the general rates of duty imposed on products of   entered under subheadings in chapters 1 to 97 of the tariff schedule.

The additional duties imposed by heading 9903.01.16 apply to products of   including both goods of   under the rules set forth in part 102, title 19 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as applicable, as well as goods for which   was the last country of substantial transformation prior to importation into  .

Products of   that are eligible for temporary duty exemptions or reductions under subchapter II to chapter 99, shall be subject to the additional ad   rate of duty imposed by heading 9903.01.16.

The additional duties imposed by heading 9903.01.16 shall not apply to goods for which entry is properly claimed under a provision of chapter 98 of the tariff schedule pursuant to applicable regulations of  , and whenever   agrees that entry under such a provision is appropriate, except for goods entered under heading 9802.00.80; and subheadings 9802.00.40,  , and 9802.00.60. For subheadings 9802.00.40,  , and 9802.00.60, the additional duties apply to the value of repairs, alterations, or processing performed (in  ), as described in the applicable subheading. For heading 9802.00.80, the additional duties apply to the value of the article assembled abroad (in  ), less the cost or value of such products of  , as described.

Products of   that are provided for in heading 9903.01.16 shall continue to be subject to antidumping, countervailing, or other duties, taxes, fees, exactions and charges that apply to such products.

Products of   that are provided for in heading 9903.01.16 that are otherwise eligible for the administrative exemption from duty and certain taxes at 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) — known as the "de minimis" exemption – may continue to qualify for the exemption, but the de minimis exemption shall cease to be available for such articles upon notification by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully and expediently process and collect tariff revenue applicable for covered articles otherwise eligible for the de minimis exemption.

(d) The   is modified as follows, to implement this provision: (i) by inserting the following new heading 9903.01.16 in numerical sequence, with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the   labeled "Heading/Subheading", "Article Description", "Rates of Duty 1—General", "Rates of Duty 1—Special" and "Rates of Duty 2", respectively:

Heading/

Subheading

Article Description

Rates of Duty

1

2

General

Special

"9903.01.16

Except for products described in  ,  , and  , articles the product of   as provided for in subdivision (m) to note 2 to this subchapter and determined by   to have been transshipped to evade applicable duties.

The duty provided in the applicable subheading + 40%

The duty provided in the applicable subheading

The duty provided in the applicable subheading"

Related PDFs

  with Annex

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in  on  .
