Executive Order  —Exclusions From  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections 7103(b)(1) of title 5 and 4103(b) of title 22, United States Code, to enhance the national security of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Determinations

. (a) The agencies and agency subdivisions set forth in section 2 of this order are hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is also hereby determined that Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, cannot be applied to these agencies and agency subdivisions in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.

(b) The agency subdivisions set forth in section 3 of this order are hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is also hereby determined that   of Chapter 52 of title  , United States Code, cannot be applied to these subdivisions in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.

 . 2

.

 

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by:

(a) In section 1-101, adding "and Section 1-4" after "Section 1-2" in both places that term appears.

(b) Adding after section 1-3 a new section 1-4 that reads:

"1-4.

Additional Exclusions

.

1-401.  .

1-402.  , except for any subdivisions excluded pursuant to section 4 of the Executive Order of  , entitled 'Exclusions from  .'

1-403.  , except   and  .

1-404.  .

1-405.  .

1-406. Agencies or subdivisions of  :

(a) Office of the Secretary.

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d) Administration for Strategic Preparedness and  .

(e) Office of  .

(f)   Administration for Children and Families.

(g)   and Infectious Diseases,  .

1-407. Agencies or subdivisions of  :

(a) Office of the Secretary.

(b) Office of  .

(c)  , Policy, and  .

(d)  .

(e)  .

(f)  .

(g)  .

(h)  .

(i)  .

(j)  .

(k)  .

(l)  .

1-408. Agencies or subdivisions of  (a) Office of the Secretary.

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d)  .

1-409.  , except for  .

1-410. The following agencies or subdivisions of  (a)  .

(b) Animal and  .

1-411.  ,  .

1-412.  .

1-413.  .

1-414.  .

1-415.  .

1-416.  .

1-417.  .

1-418.  .

1-419. The following agencies or subdivisions of each   department listed in section 101 of title 5, United States Code,  , and  (a) Office of the Chief Information Officer.

(b) any other agency or subdivision that has information resources management duties as the agency or subdivision's primary duty.

1-499. Notwithstanding the forgoing, nothing in this section shall exempt from the coverage of Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code:

(a) the immediate, local employing offices of any agency police officers, security guards, or firefighters, provided that this exclusion does not apply to  ;

(b) subdivisions of   not listed in section 1-209 of this order; or

(c) any subdivisions of   or   for which the applicable Secretary has issued an order suspending the application of this section pursuant to section 4 of the Executive Order of  , entitled 'Exclusions from  .'"

Sec. 3

.

Foreign Service Exclusions

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by:

(a) In the first paragraph:

(i) adding "and Section 4103(b) of Title 22," after "Title 5"; and

(ii) adding "and   of Chapter 52 of Title 22" after " ."

(b) Adding after section 1-102 a new section 1-103 that reads:

"1-103. The   subdivisions set forth in section 1-5 of this order are hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is also hereby determined that   of Chapter 52 of title  , United States Code, cannot be applied to those subdivisions in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations. The subdivisions set forth in section 1-5 of this order are hereby excluded from coverage under   of Chapter 52 of title  , United States Code."

(c) Adding after the new section 1-4 added by section 2(b) of this order a new section 1-5 that reads:

"1-5. Subdivisions of   Officers.

1-501. Subdivisions of  (a) Each subdivision reporting directly to the Secretary of  .

(b) Each subdivision reporting to the Deputy Secretary of  .

(c) Each subdivision reporting to the Deputy Secretary of  .

(d) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for Management.

(e) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for  .

(f) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for  , Democracy, and Human Rights.

(g) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment.

(h) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for  .

(i) Each subdivision reporting to the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy.

(j)   embassy, consulate, diplomatic mission, or office providing consular services.

1-502. Subdivisions of   International Development:

(a)   and Field Offices.

(b) Each subdivision reporting directly to the Administrator.

(c) Each subdivision reporting to the Deputy Administrator for Policy and  .

(d) Each subdivision reporting to the Deputy Administrator for  .".

 . 4

.

  to the Secretaries of Defense and  

. (a) Subject to the requirements of subsection (b) of this section,   and   are delegated authority   U.S.C. 7103(b)(1) to issue orders suspending the application of section 1-402 or 1-404 of Executive Order  , as amended, to any subdivisions of the departments they supervise, thereby bringing such subdivisions under the coverage of  .

(b) An order described in subsection (a) of this section shall only be effective if:

(i) the applicable Secretary certifies to the President that the provisions of   can be applied to such subdivision in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations; and

(ii) such certification is submitted for publication in  

within   of the date of this order.

 . 5

.

  to the Secretary of  

. (a) The national security interests of   in ensuring the safety and integrity of the national transportation system require that the Secretary of   have maximum flexibility to cultivate an efficient workforce at   that is adaptive to new technologies and innovation. Where collective bargaining is incompatible with that mission,   should not be forced to seek relief through grievances, arbitrations, or administrative proceedings.

(b) The Secretary of   is therefore delegated authority under section 7103(b) of title 5, United States Code, to issue orders excluding any subdivision of  , including  , from   coverage or suspending any provision of that law with respect to any   installation or activity located outside the 50   and  . This authority may not be further delegated. When making the determination required by 5 U.S.C. 7103(b)(1) or 7103(b)(2), the Secretary of   shall publish his determination in the

Federal Register

.

 . 6

.

Implementation

. With respect to employees in agencies or subdivisions thereof that were previously part of a bargaining unit but have been excepted under this order, each applicable agency head shall, upon termination of the applicable collective bargaining agreement:

(a) reassign any such employees who performed non-agency business pursuant to section   of title 5 or section 4116 of title  , United States Code, to performing solely agency business; and

(b) terminate agency participation in any pending grievance proceedings under section 7121 of title 5, United States Code, exceptions to arbitral awards under section 7122 of title 5, United States Code, or unfair labor practice proceedings under section 7118 of title 5 or section 4116 of title  , United States Code, that involve such employees.

 . 7

.

Additional Review

. Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency with employees covered by Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, shall submit a report to the President that identifies any agency subdivisions not covered by Executive Order  , as amended:

(a) that have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work, applying the definition of "national security" set forth by   in  ,  , and  , 4 FLRA 644 ( ); and

(b) for which the agency head believes the provisions of Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, cannot be applied to such subdivision in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations, and the reasons therefore.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
