Executive Order  —  Timber Production
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The production of timber, lumber, paper, bioenergy, and other wood products (timber production) is critical to our  's well-being. Timber production is essential for crucial human activities like construction and energy production. Furthermore, as recent disasters demonstrate, forest management and wildfire risk reduction projects can save   lives and communities.

  has an abundance of timber resources that are more than adequate to meet our domestic timber production needs, but heavy-handed Federal policies have prevented full utilization of these resources and made us reliant on foreign producers. Our inability to fully exploit our domestic timber supply has impeded the creation of jobs and prosperity, contributed to wildfire disasters, degraded fish and wildlife habitats, increased the cost of construction and energy, and threatened our economic security. These onerous Federal policies have forced our   to rely upon imported lumber, thus exporting jobs and prosperity and compromising our self-reliance. It is vital that we reverse these policies and increase domestic timber production to protect our national and economic security.

 . 2

.

Directives to the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , through the Director of  ) and the Chief of   ( ), respectively, shall each issue new or updated guidance regarding tools to facilitate increased timber production and sound forest management, reduce time to deliver timber, and decrease timber supply uncertainty, such as   described in    , stewardship contracting pursuant to 16 U.S.C.  , and agreements or contracts with   tribes under   as contemplated by 25 U.S.C.  . The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture shall also each submit to the Director of   any legislative proposals that would expand authorities to improve timber production and sound forest management.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of the  , through the Director of   Fish and   ( ), and the Secretary of  , through the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, shall complete a strategy on   and   forest management projects under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act ( ) (16 U.S.C.  ) to improve the speed of approving forestry projects. The Secretary of the  , through the Director of the  , shall also examine any applicable existing authorities that would permit executive departments and agencies (agencies) to delegate consultation requirements under section 7 of the   to other agencies and, if necessary, provide a legislative proposal to ensure consultation is streamlined.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture shall together submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, a plan that sets a target for the   amount of   to be offered for sale over   from   lands managed by the   and the  , measured in millions of board feet.

(d) Within   of this order, the Secretary of the  , through the Directors of the   and the  , and the Secretary of  , through the Chief of the  , shall complete   under section 7 of the  .

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Agriculture shall consider and, if appropriate and consistent with applicable law, adopt categorical exclusions administratively established by other agencies to comply with   and reduce unnecessarily lengthy processes and associated costs related to administrative approvals for timber production, forest management, and wildfire risk reduction treatments.

(f) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   shall consider and, if appropriate and consistent with applicable law, establish a new categorical exclusion for timber thinning and re-establish a categorical exclusion for timber salvage activities.

 . 3

.

Streamlined Permitting

. All relevant agencies shall eliminate, to the maximum extent permissible by law, all undue delays within their respective permitting processes related to timber production. Additionally, all relevant agencies shall take all necessary and appropriate steps consistent with applicable law to suspend, revise, or rescind all existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, settlements, consent orders, and other agency actions that impose an undue burden on timber production.

 . 4

.

Endangered Species Committee

. (a) Agencies are directed to use, to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law, the   regulations on consultations in emergencies to facilitate the  's timber production. The Secretary of the  , as Chairman of  , shall ensure a prompt and efficient review of all submissions to such committee, to include identification of any legal deficiencies, in order to ensure the timely consideration of exemption applications and, where possible, to resolve such applications before the deadlines set by the  .

(b) Federal members of  , or their designees, shall coordinate to develop and submit a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, that identifies obstacles to domestic timber production infrastructure specifically deriving from implementation of the   and recommends procedural, regulatory, and interagency improvements.

(c) The Secretary of the   shall ensure that the Director of the  , or the Director's authorized representative, is available to consult promptly with agencies and to take other appropriate action concerning the applicability of the  's emergency regulations. The Secretary of   shall ensure that the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, or the Assistant Administrator's authorized representative, is available for such consultation and to take such other action as may assist in applying the  's emergency regulations.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
