Executive Order  —  by Empowering Parents, States, and  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and to enable parents, teachers, and communities to best ensure student success, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. Our Nation's bright future relies on empowered families, engaged communities, and excellent educational opportunities for every child. Unfortunately, the experiment of controlling   education through   programs and dollars—and the unaccountable bureaucracy those programs and dollars support—has plainly failed our children, our teachers, and our families.

Taxpayers spent around $200 billion at the Federal level on schools during the   pandemic, on top of the more than $60 billion they spend   on   funding. This money is largely distributed by one of the newest   agencies,  , which has existed for less than one fifth of our  's history. The   created   in   at the urging of President  , who received a first-ever Presidential endorsement from the country's largest teachers' union shortly after pledging to the union his support for a separate  . Since then,   has entrenched the education bureaucracy and sought to convince   that Federal control over education is beneficial. While   does not educate anyone, it maintains a public relations office that includes over 80 staffers at a cost of more than $10 million per year.

Closing   would provide children and their families the opportunity to escape a system that is failing them.  ,   reading and math scores are near historical lows. This  's   showed that 70 percent of 8th graders were below proficient in reading, and 72 percent were below proficient in math. The   education bureaucracy is not working.

Closure of   would drastically improve program implementation in higher education.   currently manages a student loan debt portfolio of more than $1.6 trillion. This means the   student aid program is roughly the size of one of the  's largest banks,  . But although   has more than 200,000 employees,   has fewer than 1,500 in its  .   is not a bank, and it must return bank functions to an entity equipped to serve  's students.

Ultimately,   main functions can, and should, be returned to the  .

Section 2

.

Closing   and   to the States

. (a) The Secretary of   shall, to the maximum extent appropriate and permitted by law, take all necessary steps to facilitate the closure of   and return authority over education to the   and local communities while ensuring the effective and uninterrupted delivery of services, programs, and benefits on which   rely.

(b) Consistent with   authorities, the Secretary of   shall ensure that the allocation of any   funds is subject to rigorous compliance with Federal law and Administration policy, including the requirement that any program or activity receiving Federal assistance terminate illegal discrimination obscured under the label "diversity, equity, and inclusion" or similar terms and programs promoting gender ideology.

Section 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
