Executive Order  —Deploying Advanced Nuclear Reactor Technologies for National Security
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

 

.   faces a critical national security imperative to ensure a resilient, secure, and reliable energy supply for critical defense facilities designated under section 824o–1(c) of title 16, United States Code, and other mission capability resources. Advanced computing infrastructure for artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities and other mission capability resources at military and national security installations and national laboratories demands reliable, high-density power sources that cannot be disrupted by external threats or grid failures. These facilities and resources' vulnerability to energy disruption represents a strategic risk that must be addressed.

Advanced nuclear reactors include nuclear energy systems like Generation III+ reactors, small modular reactors, microreactors, and stationary and mobile reactors that have the potential to deliver resilient, secure, and reliable power to critical defense facilities and other mission capability resources. However, despite its promise, such technology has not been utilized in   at the scale or speed necessary to meet the  's urgent national security requirements, while our adversaries are rapidly exporting and deploying such technology around the world.

  must utilize its full authority to accelerate the secure and responsible development, demonstration, deployment, and export of   designed advanced nuclear technologies to bolster readiness and enhance   technological superiority. Additionally,   must further enhance our ability to export our nuclear technology to our allies and commercial partners, strengthening our shared ability to combat reliance on foreign adversaries through the use of safe, secure, and safeguarded nuclear technologies. Therefore, we must unleash the domestic nuclear industrial base and position   nuclear companies as the partners of choice for future energy growth throughout the world.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to:

(a) ensure the rapid development, deployment, and use of advanced nuclear technologies to support national security objectives, such as the protection and operation of critical infrastructure, critical defense facilities, and other mission capability resources;

(b) enable private sector investment, innovation, development, and use of advanced nuclear technologies in  , recognizing their benefit to national security, by aligning incentives across   to fully leverage federally owned uranium and plutonium resources declared excess to defense needs, related nuclear material, supply chain components, and research and development infrastructure; and

(c) coordinate regulatory efforts across   and  , ensuring that these agencies optimize resources and risk allocation in accordance with their respective missions sets.

 . 3

.

Deployment and Use of  

. (a) The Secretary of  , through the Secretary of the  , shall establish a program of record for the utilization of nuclear energy for both installation energy and operational energy. The Secretary of  , through the Secretary of the  , shall commence the operation of a nuclear reactor, regulated by  , at a domestic military base or installation  . The Secretary of   shall designate the Secretary of the   as the executive agent for both installation and operational nuclear energy across  .

(b) The Secretary of Energy shall provide technical advice, as requested, to the Secretary of Defense on the design, construction, and operation of any advanced nuclear reactor on a military installation pursuant to this order.

(c) The Secretary of   shall provide advice to the Secretary of   on any international legal requirements, or any necessary modification to international agreements or arrangements, relevant to this order.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Director of   (OMB), and the Secretaries of the military departments, prepare and submit to the Assistant to the President for   recommendations for legislative proposals and regulatory actions regarding the distribution, operation, replacement, and removal of advanced nuclear reactors and spent nuclear fuel on military installations.

 . 4

.

Deployment and Use of   at  . (a) The Secretary of Energy shall initiate the process for designating   data centers within the 48 contiguous   and  , in whole or in part, that are located at or operated in coordination with   facilities, including as support for national security missions, as critical defense facilities, where appropriate. The electrical infrastructure, including both nuclear and non-nuclear power generation infrastructure, needed to operate such shall be considered defense critical electric infrastructure, for purposes of this order and subsequently across all applicable statutes, regulations, and directives or other non-regulatory statements of policy, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy shall designate one or more sites owned or controlled by   within  , including national laboratories, for the use and deployment of advanced nuclear reactor technologies.

(c) The Secretary of Energy shall utilize all available legal authorities to site, approve, and authorize the design, construction, and operation of privately funded advanced nuclear reactor technologies at  -owned or controlled sites for the purpose of powering AI infrastructure, other critical or national security needs, supply chain items, or on-site infrastructure. The Secretary of Energy shall prioritize early site preparation and authorization activities with a goal of operating an advanced nuclear reactor at the first site   from the date of this order.

 . 5

.

Uranium and   in this Order

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy shall identify all useful uranium and plutonium material within   inventories that may be recycled or processed into nuclear fuel for reactors in  .

(b) The Secretary of Energy shall release into a readily available fuel bank not less than 20 metric tons of high assay low-enriched uranium (HALEU) for any project from the private sector which receives authorization to construct and operate at  -owned or controlled site and that is regulated by   for the purpose of powering   and other infrastructure. The Secretary of Energy shall retain such stockpiles of fuel as are necessary for tritium production, naval propulsion, and nuclear weapons as well as other existing national security obligations and therefore draw from other caches of  -owned material to provide HALEU for the fuel bank pursuant to this section. To the extent feasible, the Secretary of Energy shall implement plans to ensure that a long-term supply of enriched uranium is available for the continued operation of the projects referenced in this first sentence of this subsection, including through the establishment of domestic fuel fabrication and supply chains to reduce reliance on foreign sources of fuel.

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of Energy shall utilize all available legal authorities to site, approve, and authorize the design, construction, and operation of privately-funded nuclear fuel recycling, reprocessing, and reactor fuel fabrication technologies at identified sites controlled by their respective agencies for the purpose of fabricating fuel forms for use in national security reactors, commercial power reactors, and non-power research reactors.

 . 6

.

Interagency Coordination

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of Energy shall execute any useful contract or agreement under any of their respective authorities to support implementation of this order, including contracts or agreements for technical advisory support from   installations for research, development, design, acquisition, specification, construction, inspection, installation, certification, testing, overhaul, refueling, operation, maintenance, supply support, and disposition of advanced nuclear reactor technologies in support of mission assurance objectives for critical infrastructure and to ensure military readiness and support from   to identify novel uses of advanced nuclear reactor technologies for defense applications and testing at  -owned or controlled sites.

 . 7

.

 

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of Energy shall consult with the Chairman of   regarding:

(a) applying   and   established categorical exclusions under   ( ), 42 U.S.C.  

et seq

., for the construction of advanced nuclear reactor technologies on certain Federal sites within   and for any other appropriate measures for the purposes of implementing this order;

(b) adopting other executive departments and agencies' (agencies) categorical exclusions for the same purposes;

(c) establishing new categorical exclusions for the same purposes;

(d) seeking to utilize other agencies' emergency and other permitting procedures for the siting and construction of advanced nuclear reactor technologies; and

(e) developing alternative arrangements for compliance with   in emergency situations as appropriate for the same purposes.

 . 8

.

Promoting American Nuclear Exports

. (a) The Secretary of   or the Secretary of  's designee shall:

(i) lead diplomatic engagement and negotiations for Agreements for Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation pursuant to section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of  ,   U.S.C.   (123 Agreements);

(ii) aggressively pursue at least 20 new 123 Agreements by the close of   to enable   nuclear industry to access new markets in partner countries;

(iii) aggressively renegotiate 123 Agreements set to expire within  ;

(iv) fully leverage the resources of   to promote   nuclear industry in the development of commercial civil nuclear projects globally; and

(v) lead engagement with the   regarding the progress and reporting of negotiating 123 Agreements.

(b) The Secretary of Energy shall expeditiously review and, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of   and after consultation with  ,  , and  , adjudicate export authorization requests to facilitate   technological leadership. The Secretary of  , subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of   and after consultation with  ,  , and  , shall approve or deny each technology transfer export authorization request within   of receipt of a complete application and completion by   of the required accompanying analysis, excluding any time period waiting for (i) concurrence from  ; and (ii) retransfer and nonproliferation assurances to be received from the government of the country where the export is proposed to be sent.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of OMB, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Chair of  , determine a strategy which addresses:

(i) optimizing the value of   to provide equity and other financing of   nuclear energy technology;

(ii) increasing the effectiveness of  , as consistent with law, by expanding grant financing for   nuclear technology pilots, fuel supplies, and project preparation to recently graduated high income economies of national strategic interest;

(iii) leveraging   and other relevant agencies to increase financing for projects utilizing   civil nuclear technology exports throughout the project lifecycle;

(iv) holding trade missions and reverse trade missions and leveraging other trade promotion tools to remove trade barriers and increase the market competitiveness of   nuclear industry; and

(v) achieving competitive parity in the global market for high-level advocacy and representation from   to foreign governments of potential import countries to include alignment on nuclear-related bilateral issues, focusing on countries with the highest probability of nuclear deployment within   based on industry assessment and established commercial criteria such as the strength of the country's financial and regulatory system.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of OMB, the Director of  , the Chair of  , and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, determine a strategy that:

(i) leverages   participation in the multilateral development banks to support client country access to financial and technical assistance for the generation and distribution of nuclear energy and a reliable fuel supply; and

(ii) supports such assistance at relevant institutions to make financial support available on competitive terms, strengthen the capacity of such institutions to assess, implement, and evaluate nuclear energy projects, and support adoption of nuclear energy technologies and fuel supply chains that meet or exceed the quality standards in   or a country allied with  .

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   or his designee shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , and after review by the Director of   and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, implement a program to enhance the global competitiveness of   nuclear suppliers, investors, and lenders to compete for nuclear projects around the globe, including actions to:

(i) expedite the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements on nuclear energy and the fuel supply chain with potential export countries;

(ii) promote broad adherence to the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage;

(iii) identify statutory and regulatory burdens on exports of   nuclear technology, fuel supplies, equipment, and services that are not addressed by this or other   and recommend appropriate remedial action; and

(iv) encourage favorable decisions by potential import countries on the use of   nuclear technology, fuel supplies, equipment, and services.

 . 9

.

Prioritization of Nuclear Clearances

. The Secretary of  , through   and in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall prioritize the issuance as appropriate of   security clearances including "L", "Q", "SECRET", "TOP SECRET", " ", "CNWDI", and " " to support the rapid distribution and use of nuclear energy and fuel cycle technologies.

 . 10

.

Other Provisions

. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect OMB functions related to procurement actions and related policy. This order shall be carried out subject to the budgetary, legislative, and procurement processes and requirements established by the Director of OMB, and coordinated with OMB, as appropriate, prior to the initiation of any new program, obligation, or commitment of Federal funds or submission of any legislative or procurement proposal arising from this order. This order shall be carried out in a manner which adheres to applicable legal requirements, conforms with nonproliferation obligations, and meets the highest safeguards and safety and security standards.

 . 11

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations;

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for publication of this order in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
