Executive Order  —Delivering Most-Favored-Nation Prescription Drug Pricing to   Patients
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.   has less than five percent of the world's population and yet funds around three quarters of global pharmaceutical profits. This egregious imbalance is orchestrated through a purposeful scheme in which drug manufacturers deeply discount their products to access foreign markets, and subsidize that decrease through enormously high prices in  .

  has for too long turned its back on  , who unwittingly sponsor both drug manufacturers and other countries. These entities   rely on price markups on   consumers, generous public subsidies for research and development primarily through  , and robust public financing of prescription drug consumption through   healthcare programs. Drug manufacturers, rather than seeking to equalize evident price discrimination, agree to other countries' demands for low prices, and simultaneously fight against the ability for public and private payers in   to negotiate the best prices for patients. The inflated prices in   fuel global innovation while foreign health systems get a free ride.

This abuse of  ' generosity, who deserve low-cost pharmaceuticals on the same terms as other developed nations, must end.   will no longer be forced to pay almost three times more for the exact same medicines, often made in the exact same factories. As the largest purchaser of pharmaceuticals,   should get the best deal.

 . 2

.

Policy

.   should not be forced to subsidize low-cost prescription drugs and biologics in other developed countries, and face overcharges for the same products in  .   must therefore have access to the most-favored-nation price for these products.

My Administration will take immediate steps to end global freeloading and, should drug manufacturers fail to offer   consumers the most-favored-nation lowest price, my Administration will take additional aggressive action.

 . 3

.

Addressing Foreign Nations Freeloading on American-Financed Innovation

. The Secretary of   and   Representative shall take all necessary and appropriate action to ensure foreign countries are not engaged in any act, policy, or practice that may be unreasonable or discriminatory or that may impair   national security and that has the effect of forcing   patients to pay for a disproportionate amount of global pharmaceutical research and development, including by suppressing the price of pharmaceutical products below fair market value in foreign countries.

 . 4

.

Enabling Direct-to-Consumer Sales to   at the Most-Favored-Nation Price

. To the extent consistent with law, the Secretary of   (Secretary) shall facilitate direct-to-consumer purchasing programs for pharmaceutical manufacturers that sell their products to   patients at the most-favored-nation price.

 . 5

.

Establishing Most-Favored-Nation Pricing

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary shall, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Administrator for the Centers for   and  , and other relevant executive department and agency (agency) officials, communicate most-favored-nation price targets to pharmaceutical manufacturers to bring prices for   patients in line with comparably developed nations.

(b) If, following the action described in subsection (a) of this section, significant progress towards most-favored-nation pricing for   patients is not delivered, to the extent consistent with law:

(i) the Secretary shall propose a rulemaking plan to impose most-favored-nation pricing;

(ii) the Secretary shall consider certification to the   that importation under section 804(j) of  , and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) will pose no additional risk to the public's health and safety and result in a significant reduction in the cost of prescription drugs to the   consumer; and if the Secretary so certifies, then   shall take action under section 804(j)(2)(B) of the   to describe circumstances under which waivers will be consistently granted to import prescription drugs on a case-by-case basis from developed nations with low-cost prescription drugs;

(iii) following the report issued under section 13 of Executive Order   (  by Once Again Putting   First), the Attorney General and the Chairman of   shall, to the extent consistent with law, undertake enforcement action against any anti-competitive practices identified within such report, including through use of sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act and section 5 of  , as appropriate;

(iv) the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies as necessary, shall review and consider all necessary action regarding the export of pharmaceutical drugs or precursor material that may be fueling the global price discrimination;

(v)   shall review and potentially modify or revoke approvals granted for drugs, for those drugs that maybe be unsafe, ineffective, or improperly marketed; and

(vi) the heads of agencies shall take all action available, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, to address global freeloading and price discrimination against   patients.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for publication of this order in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
