Executive Order  —Modifying the Scope of the Reciprocal Tariff With Respect to Certain Agricultural Products
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I found that conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, including the consequences of those deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat, and to deal with that threat, I imposed certain ad   duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate. In Annex II to Executive Order  , I set forth a list of certain goods that, in my judgment, should not be subject to the ad   rates of duty imposed pursuant to that order.

In Executive Order   of September 5,   (Modifying the Scope of Reciprocal Tariffs and Establishing Procedures for Implementing Trade and Security Agreements), I modified the scope of products subject to the reciprocal tariff imposed under Executive Order  , as amended, and I issued an updated version of Annex II to Executive Order  .

I have received additional information and recommendations from various officials who, pursuant to my direction, have been monitoring the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive Order  . After considering the information and recommendations these officials have provided to me, the status of negotiations with various trading partners, current domestic demand for certain products, and current domestic capacity to produce certain products, among other things, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to further modify the scope of products subject to the reciprocal tariff imposed under Executive Order  , as amended. Specifically, I have determined that certain agricultural products shall not be subject to the reciprocal tariff imposed under Executive  , as amended. Accordingly, updated versions of Annex II to Executive Order  , as amended, and the   to Executive Order   entitled, "Potential Tariff Adjustments for Aligned Partners," are attached to this order and shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  . In my judgment, these modifications are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  .

 . 2.  

. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   shall be modified as provided in   I to this order. The modifications shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  . To the extent that implementation of this order requires a refund of duties collected, refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable law and the standard procedures of   for such refunds.

 . 3. Implementation

. (a) The Secretary of   and   Representative shall continue to monitor the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive Order   and shall regularly consult on such circumstances with any senior official they deem appropriate. The Secretary of   and   Representative shall inform me of any circumstance that, in their opinion, might indicate the need for further action by the President.

(b) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   are directed and authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules, regulations, or guidance, and to employ all powers granted to the President, including those granted by  , as may be necessary to implement and effectuate this order. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , consistent with applicable law, may redelegate any of these functions within their respective department or agency. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 4. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

Related PDFs

Download Annex  

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in  on  .
