Executive Order  —Ensuring Continued Accountability in Federal Hiring
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Background

. In  , my Administration has dramatically reduced the size of the Federal workforce, improving the efficient delivery of Government services while prioritizing hiring in national security, immigration enforcement, public safety, and other roles that further my  's priorities and benefit   taxpayers. The results of this approach have surpassed the ratio of four departures for each new hire set forth in Executive Order   (Implementing the President's " " Workforce Optimization Initiative). To protect and expand upon these historic improvements, and to ensure that   is optimally staffed to meet critical mission needs and implement the agenda that the   people elected me to pursue, Federal hiring shall be subject to the following policies and procedures going forward.

 . 2. Policies and   to  . No Federal civilian position that is vacant may be filled, and no new position may be created, except as provided for in this order or required by applicable law. Except as set forth in section 3 of this order, this policy applies to all executive departments and agencies (agencies) regardless of their sources of operational or programmatic funding.

(a)

Compliance with the Merit Hiring Plan

. Any Federal hiring shall be consistent with   issued by the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the Director of   (OPM) on  , pursuant to Executive Order   (Reforming the Federal Hiring Process and   to Government Service).

(b)

Strategic Hiring Committees

. Within   of the date of this order, each agency head shall establish a Strategic Hiring Committee to approve the creation or filling, as applicable, of each vacancy within their agency. The Strategic Hiring Committee shall include the deputy agency head and the chief of staff to the agency head, along with such other senior officials as the agency head may designate. The Strategic Hiring Committee shall ensure that agency hiring is consistent with the national interest, agency needs, and the priorities of my Administration. Agency Strategic Hiring Committees shall provide written notice of approved hires to   following the approval of such hires.

(c)

Annual Staffing Plans and Quarterly Updates

.

(i) Within   of this order, each agency shall prepare an   Staffing Plan, in coordination with   and   (OMB), to ensure that new career appointments in the upcoming   are in the highest-need areas and aligned with the priorities of my Administration. Agencies shall submit final   Staffing Plans to   and OMB. In these plans, agencies shall seek to improve operational efficiency; eliminate duplicative or unnecessary functions and positions; reduce unnecessary or low-value contractor positions; promote employee accountability; enhance delivery of essential services; appropriately prioritize hiring for national security, homeland security, and public safety positions; and implement the recruitment initiatives described in  . Going forward, agencies shall prepare, in coordination with   and OMB, Annual Staffing Plans to implement at the start of  .

(ii) Agencies shall comply with the Annual Staffing Plans throughout  , but agencies may update their plans during the course of   based on enactment of relevant appropriations or authorizing legislation, or otherwise amend their plans in coordination with   and OMB.

(iii) Agencies shall submit updates to   and OMB at  , beginning with   of the   fiscal year, showing progress in implementing their   Staffing Plans.

 . 3. Exceptions

. (a) This order does not apply to:

(i)   of the President or the components thereof;

(ii) non-career positions requiring Presidential appointment or   confirmation;

(iii) non-career positions in  ;

(iv) Schedule C or Schedule G positions in the excepted service;

(v) military personnel of  ;

(vi) positions related to immigration enforcement, national security, or public safety; or

(vii) appointment of officials through temporary organization hiring authority pursuant to section   of title 5, United States Code.

(b) This order does not limit or prohibit the appointment or hiring of any other non-career employees or officials if approved by an agency head appointed by the President or another official appointed by the President.

(c) This order does not limit or prohibit any appointment or hiring specifically approved by the head of an executive department, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101. OPM may also authorize the head of an independent establishment, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 104, to use this exception.

(d) This order does not limit or prohibit the hiring of personnel where such a limit or prohibition would conflict with applicable law.

(e) The Director of   may grant appropriate exemptions from this order. Exemptions previously granted by   under   of   (Hiring Freeze), and   (Ensuring Accountability and   in Federal Hiring), shall remain in effect unless withdrawn by  .

 . 4. Report

. Within   of the date of this order, the Director of OMB and the Director of   shall submit a joint report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, regarding implementation of this order, including a recommendation as to whether any of its provisions should be modified or terminated.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) Contracting outside   to circumvent the intent of this order is prohibited.

(d) This order does not prohibit making reallocations or reassignments to meet the highest priority needs; maintain essential services; and protect national security, homeland security, and public safety.

(e) This order shall not adversely impact the provision of  ,  , or veterans' benefits.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(g) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(h) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
