Executive Order  —Assuring the Security of the State of  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in recognition of the enduring alliance between   and    , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Policy

. Over  ,   and the State of   have been bound together by close cooperation, shared interests, and the close relationship between our armed forces. The State of   has hosted   forces, enabled critical security operations, and stood as a steadfast ally in pursuit of peace, stability, and prosperity, both in the Middle East and abroad, including as a mediator that has assisted   attempts to resolve significant regional and global conflicts. In recognition of this history, and in light of the continuing threats to the   of   posed by foreign aggression, it is the policy of   to guarantee the security and territorial integrity of the State of   against external attack.

 . 2. Commitment

. (a)   shall regard any armed attack on the territory, sovereignty, or critical infrastructure of the State of   as a threat to the peace and security of  .

(b) In the event of such an attack,   shall take all lawful and appropriate measures—including diplomatic, economic, and, if necessary, military—to defend the interests of   and of the State of   and to restore peace and stability.

(c) The Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Director of  , shall maintain joint contingency planning with the   of   to ensure a rapid and coordinated response to any foreign aggression against the   of  .

(d) The Secretary of   shall reaffirm this assurance to the   of   and coordinate with allies and partners to ensure complementary measures of support.

(e) The Secretary of   shall continue to partner with the   of   as and when appropriate for conflict resolution and mediation in recognition of the State of   's extensive diplomatic and mediation experience.

 . 3. Implementation

. All executive departments and agencies shall take appropriate steps, consistent with law, to implement this order.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
