Executive Order  —Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between   and Certain of Its Employees Represented by Certain Labor Organizations
 
  (2nd Term)

Disputes exist between   and certain of its employees represented by certain labor organizations. The labor organizations involved in these disputes are  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

The disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151–188 (RLA).

Parties empowered by the   have requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the   (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(c) of the   provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the disputes.

Now, Therefore

, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 9A of the  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board (Board)

. There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , a   composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on these disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2. Report

. The   shall report to the President with respect to the disputes within   of its creation.

 . 3.  

. As provided by section 9A(c) of the  , for   from the date of the creation of the Board, no change in the conditions out of which the disputes arose shall be made by the parties to the controversy, except by agreement of the parties.

 . 4. Records Maintenance

. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5. Expiration

. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.

 . 6. Costs of Publication

. The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
