1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Kids from Fentanyl Act
.
2.
Additional funds for opioid antagonists and related training and education
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a State or local educational agency that has received funds under an ESSERF program may, in lieu of the original requested or authorized use for such funds, use a portion, or all, of the unexpended funds to carry out one or more of the following activities:
(1)
Purchase naloxone or other opioid antagonists.
(2)
Provide training to school nurses, teachers, school administrators, and school resource officers on how to administer naloxone or other opioid antagonists.
(3)
Provide fentanyl awareness classes or materials to students.
(b)
Limitations on Secretarial authority
The Secretary of Education shall not—
(1)
require the use of funds under subsection (a) to be in response to, or in any way connected with, COVID–19; or
(2)
prevent or discourage a State or local educational agency from using ESSERF program funds to carry out any of the activities authorized under subsection (a).
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to supercede any State law regulating the use of naloxone or other opioid antagonists in schools.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
ESSERF program
The term
ESSERF program
means a program carried out under—
(A)
section 18003 of the CARES Act (
20 U.S.C. 3401
note;
Public Law 116–136
);
(B)
section 313 of division M of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (
Public Law 116–260
; 134 Stat. 1929); or
(C)
section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (
Public Law 117–2
; 135 Stat. 19).
(2)
Fentanyl awareness class or material
The term
fentanyl awareness class or material
means any program, class, or educational material designed to teach—
(A)
the dangers of using drugs which may be contaminated with fentanyl;
(B)
the prevention of drug abuse, including through safe disposal of prescription medications and other safety precautions; and
(C)
the detection of early warning signs of addiction in school-aged children and youth.
(3)
Opioid antagonist
The term
opioid antagonist
means a medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the purpose of rapidly reversing an opioid overdose.
