1.
Impairment prevention, recognition and response training
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 399Q (
42 U.S.C. 280g–4
) the following:
399Q–1.
Impairment prevention, recognition and response training
(a)
In general
Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
), shall conduct research on programs that includes the elements specified in subsection (b) to educate employers, workers, and relevant workplace populations on—
(1)
the prevention of impairment from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs; and
(2)
the safety risks resulting from individuals working while impaired from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs.
(b)
Workplace training program
Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall, in consultation with a national nonprofit organization with relevant expertise, develop a workplace training program to be made available to full-time and part-time employees and individuals employed by a State or the Federal Government, which covers the following elements of impairment from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs:
(1)
The impact of impairment from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs on safety on the job.
(2)
The importance of preventing, recognizing and responding to impairment.
(3)
The role of various workplace professionals when recognizing and responding to perceived impairment from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs.
(4)
Common signs and symptoms of impairment from the use of cannabis, opioids, and other drugs.
(5)
The steps to respond to perceived impairment.
(6)
Common workplace impairment prevention measures.
(7)
Guidance on related workplace policies and information on relevant laws and regulations.
(c)
Employee and employer defined
In this section, the terms
employee
and
employer
have the meanings given such terms in section 3 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (
29 U.S.C. 652
).
.
