1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicare Opioid Use Disorder Outreach Act
.
2.
Outreach and reporting on opioid use disorder treatment services furnished by opioid treatment programs
(a)
Outreach
(1)
Provider outreach
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall conduct outreach to physicians and appropriate non-physician practitioners participating under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
) with respect to opioid use disorder treatment services furnished by an opioid treatment program (as defined in section 1861(jjj) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(jjj)
)). Such outreach shall include a comprehensive, one-time education initiative to inform such physicians and practitioners of the inclusion of such services as a covered benefit under the Medicare program, including describing the requirements for billing and the requirements for beneficiary eligibility for such services.
(2)
Beneficiary outreach
The Secretary shall conduct outreach to Medicare beneficiaries with respect to opioid use disorder treatment services furnished by an opioid treatment program (as defined in section 1861(jjj) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(jjj)
)), including a comprehensive, one-time education initiative informing such beneficiaries about the eligibility requirements to receive such services.
(b)
Reports to congress
(1)
Outreach
Not later than 1 year after the date of the completion of the education initiatives described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the outreach conducted under such subsection. Such report shall include a description of the methods used for such outreach.
(2)
Utilization rates
Not later than 18 months after the date of the completion of the education initiatives described in subsection (a), and two years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the number of Medicare beneficiaries who, during the preceding year, were furnished opioid use disorder treatment services by an opioid treatment program (as defined in section 1861(jjj) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395x(jjj)
)) for which payment was made under title XVIII of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
).
