1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Clean Elections in America Act
.
2.
Requirements with respect to voting by absentee ballot
(a)
Requirements
Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as sections 305 and 306, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after section 303 the following new section:
304.
Requirements with respect to voting by absentee ballot
(a)
Individuals eligible To receive absentee ballot
(1)
Excusable reasons to receive absentee ballot
A State may not provide to an individual an absentee ballot to vote in an election for Federal office unless such individual meets the application requirements described in paragraph (2) and is unable to vote in person at the appropriate polling place in the State on the date of the election for any of the following reasons:
(A)
The business or occupation of the individual prevents such individual from voting in person on the date of the election.
(B)
The individual is unable to vote in person on the date of the election because such individual provides care to a parent, spouse, or child with an illness, disability, or injury that requires constant care.
(C)
The individual suffers from a physical ailment, or is an individual with a disability, that substantially limits the ability of the individual to vote in person.
(D)
The individual will be absent from the jurisdiction in which the individual is registered to vote on the date of the election.
(E)
The individual is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under any other Federal law.
(2)
Application requirements
A State may not provide to an individual an absentee ballot to vote in an election for Federal office unless—
(A)
the individual submits an application to the appropriate State or local election official and such application is received by the official not later than noon on the Friday before the date of the election; and
(B)
the application includes—
(i)
the individual’s name and address;
(ii)
the reason such individual is unable to vote in person at the appropriate polling place in the State on the date of the election and such reason is an excusable reason described in paragraph (1); and
(iii)
a sworn written statement attesting to the individual’s identity.
(b)
Effective date
This section shall apply with respect to each election for Federal office held after the date of the enactment of this section.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment relating to enforcement
Section 401 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21111
) is amended by striking
and 303
and inserting
303, and 304
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended—
(1)
by redesignating the items relating to sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections 305 and 306; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:
Sec. 304. Requirements with respect to voting by absentee ballot.
.
