1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VSO Support Act of 2022
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs program to provide grants for certain veterans service organizations affected by COVID–19 pandemic
(a)
Grant program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a program under which the Secretary shall make grants to eligible organizations to offset costs relating to the COVID–19 pandemic incurred during the covered 2020 period.
(b)
Eligible organizations
To be eligible to receive a grant under the program, an organization shall be a veterans service organization that—
(1)
as a result of the COVID–19 pandemic, experienced a loss of 50 percent or greater gross revenue during the covered 2020 period (compared to the gross revenue collected during the covered 2019 period); and
(2)
submits to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate, including—
(A)
information demonstrating the loss specified in paragraph (1); and
(B)
a plan for the use of such grant.
(c)
Use of grant amounts
A veterans service organization that receives a grant under this section may only use the grant in accordance with the plan referred to in subsection (b)(2)(B) for the following expenses of the organization:
(1)
Rent.
(2)
Utilities.
(3)
Scheduled mortgage payments.
(4)
Scheduled debt payments.
(5)
Other ordinary and necessary business expenses, including maintenance costs, administrative costs (including fees and licensing), State and local taxes and fees, operating leases, and insurance payments.
(d)
Amount of grant
A grant made to a veterans service organization under the program shall be in an amount equal to the aggregate cost of the activities specified in the plan referred to in subsection (b)(2)(B), except that any such grant may not exceed $50,000.
(e)
Regulations
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out the grant program.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered 2019 period
means the period beginning on April 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2019.
(2)
The term
covered 2020 period
means the period beginning on April 1, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2020.
(3)
The term
veterans service organization
means an organization that is chartered under part B of subtitle II of title 36, United States Code, and includes any local or area chapter, post, or other unit.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.
