1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Our Schools Act of 2022
.
2.
Availability of funds for school security measures
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the unobligated balance of amounts made available under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 802 and 803) to any State, territory, Tribal government, metropolitan city, or other units of local government (as such terms are defined for purposes of such sections) may be made available to carry out school security measures.
(b)
Nonrequirement of response to public health emergency
The use of amounts pursuant to the authority provided by subsection (a) shall not be required to be in response to, or in any way connected with, COVID–19 or the public health emergency with respect to COVID–19.
(c)
School security measure
For purposes of this Act, the term
school security measure
means any of the following:
(1)
An evidence-based strategy or program to prevent violence, which may include the use of appropriate technologies, including the placement and use of metal detectors and other deterrent measures and emergency notification and response technologies.
(2)
Training to prevent student violence against others and self, including training for local law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students.
(3)
The development and operation of an anonymous reporting system for threats of school violence, including a mobile telephone application, hotline, or internet website.
(4)
The development and operation of—
(A)
a school threat assessment and intervention team that may include coordination with law enforcement agencies and school personnel; and
(B)
specialized training for school officials in responding to mental health crises.
(5)
Coordination with local law enforcement agencies.
(6)
A security assessment.
(7)
Security training of personnel and students.
(8)
Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency.
(9)
Reinforcing or replacing classroom doors, locks, or window panels.
(10)
Constructing fencing, bollards, planters, curbs, walls, or any other entry control measure to create a single point of entry to the campus.
(11)
Clearing exterior spaces of foliage or structures to eliminate spaces that could conceal illicit activity, provide access to the building above the first floor, or otherwise aid an intruder.
(12)
Installing a system to monitor hallways, stairwells, and utility rooms, such as physical inspection or surveillance cameras.
(13)
Hiring and paying the salaries of qualified individuals, such as retired law enforcement officers or military veterans, to serve as armed school resource officers.
