1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Public Land Search and Rescue Act of 2022
.
2.
Grant program for remote search and rescue activities
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish a program (in this Act referred to as the
Program
) to allocate resources to remote search and rescue activities conducted on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior.
(b)
Grant authority
In carrying out the Program, the Attorney General may award a grant on a competitive basis in accordance with this section.
(c)
Eligible recipients
The Attorney General may award a grant under the Program to a State or a political subdivision thereof determined by the Attorney General to have the authority and capability to carry out a project described in subsection (d).
(d)
Eligible projects
Grant funds awarded under the Program may be used—
(1)
by an eligible recipient to purchase equipment and gear necessary for remote search and rescue activities;
(2)
to reimburse an eligible recipient for the cost of maintenance and repair of remote search and rescue equipment owned or leased by an eligible recipient; and
(3)
by an eligible recipient to reimburse State and local agencies responsible for remote search and rescue activities.
(e)
Application
(1)
In general
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an eligible recipient shall submit to the Attorney General an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Attorney General determines to be appropriate.
(2)
Additional application
An eligible recipient may submit to the Attorney General an additional application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Attorney General determines to be appropriate for additional funding for purposes under subsection (d)(2).
(f)
Priority
The Attorney General shall prioritize an application from an eligible recipient who serves an area with a high ratio of visitors to residents.
(g)
Federal share
The Federal share of assistance under the Program shall be 75 percent of the cost of an eligible project.
(h)
Remote search and rescue activity defined
In this section, the term
remote search and rescue activity
means an activity that utilizes, trains, or supports responders with specialized equipment to locate, provide assistance to, and remove to safety individuals who are lost, injured, stranded, or entrapped in remote areas.
