1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Budget, No Fundraising Act
.
2.
Prohibiting certain campaign fundraising until balanced budget resolution is in effect and appropriations bill are enacted
(a)
Prohibition
Section 323 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
52 U.S.C. 30125
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Prohibiting certain fundraising until balanced budget resolution is in effect and appropriations bills are enacted
(1)
Prohibition
During a fiscal year, a Member of Congress (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress), a national congressional campaign committee of a political party, or an affiliated committee of a national congressional campaign committee of a political party may not solicit funds in connection with an election for Federal office until each of the following applies:
(A)
There is in effect for such fiscal year a concurrent resolution on the budget under which, notwithstanding the exclusion of off-budget items, the excess of total budget authority (including all on- and off-budget authority and net interest costs) over total receipts declines gradually from the fiscal year and each of the 9 succeeding fiscal years such that the total receipts exceed total budget authority not later than the ninth succeeding fiscal year, and in no case later than the last day of fiscal year 2033 (as certified by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office).
(B)
Each of the regular appropriations bills for such fiscal year has been enacted into law.
(C)
Each of the regular appropriations bills for such fiscal year, as enacted, is consistent with the concurrent resolution on the budget for such fiscal year.
(2)
Regular appropriation bill defined
In this subsection, the term
regular appropriation bill
means any annual appropriation bill which, with respect to the Congress involved, is under the jurisdiction of a single subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives (pursuant to the Rules of the House of Representatives for that Congress) and a single subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate (pursuant to the Standing Rules of the Senate).
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by
subsection (a)
shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2024 and each succeeding fiscal year.
