1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Defenders of Ukraine Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
In 1991, Ukraine declared independence from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, key to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Soon after, Ukraine disposed of the world’s third largest nuclear arsenal.
(2)
In April 2014, the Russian Federation annexed Crimea and invaded the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Eastern Ukraine; this initial conflict claimed approximately 14,000 lives.
(3)
On February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation expanded its war against Ukraine, launching a further unprovoked full-scale invasion of the peaceful, independent country.
(4)
In response to this unprovoked invasion, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have heroically volunteered to defend their country, joining its Armed Forces and taking up arms against Russian Armed Forces.
(5)
Russia’s unjustifiable invasion has claimed thousands of innocent lives, including children and the elderly, through the targeting of civilians and the destruction of civilian infrastructure including apartment buildings, schools, kindergartens, hotels, and hospitals.
(6)
Millions of Ukrainians have been forced to leave their homes and country behind.
(7)
Ukrainian civilians, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the democratic government, and its elected and civilian officials have been effective in disrupting the Russian invasion, blocking the enemy using a wide range of methods including direct combat, dismantling nearby road signs, using cranes to move cement blocks in the way, producing improvised petrol bombs, and setting up sandbags to block roadways.
(8)
Ukrainian civilians, both armed and unarmed, have shown immense bravery in their heroic attempts to disrupt the Russian war efforts, with little regard for their own safety.
(9)
The courage and strength of Ukrainian citizens resisting their autocratic invaders has strengthened the resolve of the United States and their allies, increasing support for the provision of military and humanitarian aid.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to the Defenders of Ukraine, collectively, in recognition of their crucial role in the defense of the free democracy of Ukraine against Russia’s unprovoked war of aggression.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Disposition of medal
Following the presentation under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
give the gold medal to the Government of Ukraine; or
(2)
if the Secretary determines that Ukraine does not have a democratically elected government—
(A)
transfer the gold medal temporarily to the Smithsonian Institution for display; and
(B)
transfer the gold medal to Ukraine after determining that Ukraine does have a democratically elected government.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
