1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Geospatial Support for Atrocity Accountability Act
.
2.
Provision of intelligence to identify, prevent, and respond to atrocities
(a)
In general
The Secretary of State, acting through the Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations, shall ensure that the Department of State receives the following information of the United States Government:
(1)
Intelligence to identify, prevent, and respond to atrocities pursuant to the Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–441
; 132 Stat. 5586).
(2)
Evidence and information collected, analyzed, or preserved relating to war crimes, other atrocities, forced disappearances, and atrocity crime scenes.
(b)
Department of State Atrocity Warning Task Force
The Secretary of State shall ensure that intelligence, evidence, and information received pursuant to subsection (a) is provided to the Department of State Atrocity Warning Task Force. The Task Force shall provide unclassified commercial geospatial imagery and analysis of such imagery received pursuant to subsection (a) to—
(1)
appropriate domestic, foreign, and international courts and tribunals prosecuting persons responsible for crimes for which such imagery may provide evidence (including genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, including with respect to missing persons and suspected atrocity crime scenes);
(2)
the International Commission on Missing Persons and relevant civil society organizations (in addition to providing such organizations with other evidence archived by the Task Force); and
(3)
the public to notify persons of potential atrocities and warn persons who are believed to be preparing to commit atrocities.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Atrocities
The term
atrocities
has the meaning given that term in section 6 of the Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–441
; 132 Stat. 5586).
(2)
Atrocity crime scene
The term
atrocity crime scene
means one or more locations that are relevant to the investigation of an atrocity, including buildings or locations (including bodies of water) where physical evidence may be collected relating to the perpetrators, victims, and events of the atrocity, such as mass graves and other sites containing deceased individuals.
