1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Task Force Pineapple Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Task Force Pineapple, a group of veterans, worked unofficially with the United States military and the United States Embassy to safely rescue hundreds of Afghan special operators and American citizens, bringing them into the United States military-controlled part of the Hamid Karzai International Airport as the United States was concluding its withdrawal from Afghanistan.
(2)
These Afghan special operators served alongside the United States military throughout the United States deployment in Afghanistan, interpreting and putting their own lives on the line to ally and assist the United States military.
(3)
Working alongside the United States military and the United States Embassy, Task Force Pineapple was able to save an estimate of 500 Afghan special operators and their families on the first mission.
3.
Congressional Gold Medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Task Force Pineapple in recognition of the achievements of Task Force Pineapple.
(b)
Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Smithsonian Institution
Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it shall be available for display as appropriate and made available for research.
4.
Duplicate medals
(a)
Striking of duplicates
Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may strike duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3.
(b)
Selling of duplicates
The Secretary may sell such duplicates under subsection (a) at a price sufficient to cover the costs of such duplicates, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
