1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Consumer Protection and Fuel Transparency Act of 2022
.
2.
Withdrawal of E15 Fuel Dispenser Labeling and Compatibility With Underground Storage Tanks proposed rule
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall withdraw the proposed rule titled
E15 Fuel Dispenser Labeling and Compatibility With Underground Storage Tanks
(86 Fed. Reg. 5094 (January 19, 2021)).
3.
E15 fuel dispenser labeling
(a)
Revision of rule
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall revise the labeling requirements for fuel pumps that dispense E15, including by revising the rule described in subsection (c) with respect to such requirements.
(b)
Input and requirements for label
In revising the labeling requirements for fuel pumps that dispense E15 under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall—
(1)
solicit input from—
(A)
industries that manufacture vehicles, engines, and equipment that are prohibited from using E15, including boats, lawnmowers, chainsaws, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and pre-2001 model year vehicles;
(B)
consumer groups that represent users of such vehicles, engines, and equipment;
(C)
consumer label experts; and
(D)
retailers (as defined in section 101(7) of the Petroleum Marketing Practices Act (
15 U.S.C. 2801(7)
));
(2)
require that the label for fuel pumps that dispense E15—
(A)
include the word
WARNING
;
(B)
include the words
Check your owner’s manual
;
(C)
be 5 × 7 inches or larger;
(D)
include—
(i)
indicators with respect to vehicles, engines, and equipment that are prohibited from using E15, including—
(I)
pictograms depicting a boat, lawnmower, chainsaw, motorcycle, and snowmobile; and
(II)
warnings with respect to pre-2001 model year vehicles; and
(ii)
other indicators developed by the Administrator, in consultation with the American National Standards Institute and the Federal Trade Commission; and
(E)
be focus group tested to ensure effectiveness; and
(3)
with respect to blender pumps, in addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), with input from industries, the Federal Trade Commission, and the American National Standards Institute, require an additional warning label on each such blender pump to warn consumers of the residual gasoline left in gasoline pump hoses from the previous individual dispensing.
(c)
Rule described
The rule described in this subsection is the final rule titled
Regulation To Mitigate the Misfueling of Vehicles and Engines With Gasoline Containing Greater Than Ten Volume Percent Ethanol and Modifications to the Reformulated and Conventional Gasoline Programs
published in the Federal Register on July 25, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 44406).
4.
Education
(a)
Public education
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with affected industries, shall develop and publish on the website of the Environmental Protection Agency educational materials to inform the public regarding—
(1)
the risks associated with the improper use of E15; and
(2)
the vehicles, engines, and equipment that are prohibited from using E15, including boats, lawnmowers, chainsaws, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and pre-2001 model year vehicles.
(b)
Registration entities education
The Administrator, in collaboration with State entities responsible for boat registration, shall distribute, at the time of initial registration of a boat and at the time of the renewal of a registration for such boat, educational materials described in subsection (a).
(c)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the impact of the publication and distribution of the educational materials described in subsection (a), including data and metrics on consumer awareness of E15.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Blender pump
The term
blender pump
means a fuel pump that may dispense multiple blends of fuel, including E15.
(3)
E
15
The term
E15
means gasoline containing 15 percent ethanol by volume.
