119 HCON 30 IH: Expressing support for local law enforcement officers.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-05-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 30
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 6, 2025
Mr. Ezell
(for himself and
Mr. Nehls
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing support for local law enforcement officers.
Whereas the brave men and women in local law enforcement work tirelessly to protect the communities they serve;
Whereas local law enforcement officers are tasked with upholding the rule of law and ensuring public safety;
Whereas local law enforcement officers selflessly put themselves in harm’s way to fight crime, get drugs off the streets, and protect the innocent;
Whereas local law enforcement officers take an oath to never betray the public trust;
Whereas the local law enforcement community protects our streets, acknowledges the rights of all Americans, and keeps citizens safe from harm;
Whereas local law enforcement officers are recognized for their public service to all, knowing they face extremely dangerous situations while carrying out their duties;
Whereas a healthy and collaborative relationship between local law enforcement officers and the communities they serve is essential to creating mutually respectful dialogue; and
Whereas local law enforcement officers and their families deserve respect, appreciation, and support for their sacrifices and commitment to public service: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
recognizes and appreciates the dedication and devotion demonstrated by the men and women of local law enforcement who keep the Nation’s communities safe;
(2)
extends its gratitude to all local law enforcement officers and their families for their sacrifice and service;
(3)
honors the memory of those local law enforcement officers who have fallen in the line of duty; and
(4)
encourages continued collaboration between local law enforcement agencies and the communities they serve to strengthen public safety and trust.
