1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Home Loan Fairness Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings and purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Veterans and their families often face unique financial challenges, including the cost of childcare.
(2)
The consideration of childcare expenses in the calculation of debt-to-income ratios can disproportionately affect the ability of veterans to qualify for home loans.
(3)
Ensuring equitable access to home loans is critical to supporting veterans and their families.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to prohibit the consideration of childcare expenses in the calculation of debt-to-income ratios for Department of Veterans Affairs housing loans to promote fair access to home ownership for veterans.
3.
Prohibition on consideration of childcare expenses in debt-to-income ratio calculations
(a)
In general
Chapter 37
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 3720
the following new section:
3720B.
Prohibition on consideration of childcare expenses in debt-to-income ratio calculations
(a)
In general
In determining the eligibility of a veteran for a housing loan guaranteed, insured, or made under this chapter, the Secretary shall ensure that childcare expenses are not considered in the calculation of the veteran’s debt-to-income ratio.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Childcare expenses
The term
childcare expenses
means costs incurred for the care of a child or minor dependent of the veteran concerned.
(2)
Debt-to-income ratio
The term
debt-to-income ratio
means the ratio of a veteran’s total monthly debt payments to such veteran’s gross monthly income.
(c)
Regulations
The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to implement the requirements of this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 37 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3720 the following new item:
3720B. Prohibition on consideration of childcare expenses in debt-to-income calculations.
.
4.
Effective date
This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
