1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Women in Aviation Act
.
2.
Women in Aviation Advisory Committee
(a)
Establishment
There is established within the Department of Transportation the Women in Aviation Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the
Committee
).
(b)
Membership
(1)
Composition
(A)
In general
The Committee shall be composed of up to 15 members appointed by the Secretary of Transportation, including representatives from the following:
(i)
Major airlines and aerospace companies.
(ii)
Nonprofit organizations within the aviation industry.
(iii)
Airport operators and employees.
(iv)
Aviation business associations.
(v)
Engineering business associations.
(vi)
United States Air Force Auxiliary, Civil Air Patrol.
(vii)
Institutions of higher education and aviation trade schools.
(viii)
Nonprofit labor organizations representing aviation workers, including an organization representing pilots for cargo and passenger air carriers operating under part 121 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
(ix)
The Federal Aviation Administration.
(B)
Date
The appointments described in subparagraph (A) shall be made not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this section.
(2)
Chair; subcommittee chairs
The Committee—
(A)
shall select a Chair from among the members of the Committee; and
(B)
may select subcommittee chairs from among the members of the Committee, as the Committee determines appropriate.
(3)
Term of service
(A)
In general
Each member of the Committee shall serve a term of 6 years from the date of the appointment.
(B)
Successors
(i)
Death or resignation
If a member of the Committee dies or resigns during their term of service, the Secretary of Transportation shall designate a successor for the unexpired term of such member.
(ii)
Expired term
Any member of the Committee whose term of office has expired shall continue to serve as a member until their successor is appointed by the Secretary of Transportation.
(4)
Administrative support
The Secretary of Transportation shall furnish the Committee logistical and administrative support and other assistance to enable the Committee to perform its duties.
(5)
Compensation
Each member of the Committee shall serve without compensation.
(c)
Duties
(1)
Advisory role
The Committee—
(A)
shall advise the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration on matters related to women in the aviation industry;
(B)
shall engage with the objectives, report, and recommendations produced by the Advisory Board created under section 612 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (
49 U.S.C. 40101
note);
(C)
shall coordinate with the Federal Women's Program of the Federal Aviation Administration; and
(D)
shall not duplicate the objectives of the Air Carrier Training Aviation Rulemaking Committee.
(2)
Reports
(A)
Annual report
Not later than October 31 of the first calendar year beginning after the date on which the Committee is established under subsection (a), and annually thereafter, the Committee shall submit to Congress, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration a report that contains a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the Committee, together with the recommendations of the Committee for such legislation and administrative actions as the Committee considers appropriate.
(B)
Additional reports
The Committee may submit to Congress, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration additional reports and recommendations as the Committee determines appropriate.
(d)
Review of recommendations
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of Transportation receives a report from the Committee under subsection (c)(2), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that indicates—
(1)
which recommendations of the Committee contained in such report that the Secretary implemented; and
(2)
which such recommendations the Secretary did not implement (including any recommendations for legislation) and a rationale for that determination.
(e)
Non-Application of FACA termination requirement
Section 1013 of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to the Committee.
