1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Agricultural Access to Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Mental Health Care Act of 2023
.
2.
Study on accessibility of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care providers and services for farmers and ranchers
(a)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
conduct a study on the accessibility of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care providers and services for farmers and ranchers; and
(2)
submit a report containing the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1) to—
(A)
the Secretary of Agriculture;
(B)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(C)
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate;
(D)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(E)
the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
(F)
the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives;
(G)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(H)
the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Topics addressed
The study conducted under subsection (a) shall include an examination of the following topics:
(1)
The availability and accessibility in rural areas of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care providers and services that are trained and dedicated to serve the needs of farmers, ranchers, agricultural workers, and their family members.
(2)
Barriers and challenges faced by farmers and ranchers in accessing substance use disorder treatment and mental health care and health and wellness resources, including financial, geographic, and cultural barriers.
(3)
Identification of best practices and successful programs at the State and local levels that can be replicated at the Federal level to address substance use disorder treatment and mental health care needs in agricultural communities, including the following:
(A)
Hiring and training of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care professionals with expertise in working with agricultural communities.
(B)
Accessing cultural competency training for substance use disorder treatment and mental health care professionals that lack expertise in working with agricultural communities.
(C)
Developing certificate programs for paraprofessionals and coaches to offer peer-to-peer support programming.
(D)
Researching effective curricula for youth and young adults to be offered in rural schools.
(E)
Expanding telehealth and telemedicine services to improve access to care in rural areas.
(F)
Developing outreach and educational programs to reduce stigma and increase awareness of mental health issues among farmers and ranchers.
(G)
Enhancing coordination and collaboration between existing mental health providers and agricultural organizations.
(H)
Conducting research and evaluation to measure the effectiveness of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care services provided to farmers and ranchers.
(4)
Utilization of, and best practices among grantees through, the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network under section 7522 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 5936
).
(5)
Recommendations for improving the accessibility and utilization of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care for farmers and ranchers.
