1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Summit of the Americas Act
.
2.
Summit of the Americas and related matters
(a)
Statement of policy
It shall be the policy of the United States to work with the Summit of the Americas Secretariat to support the organization of a Summit of the Americas every four years, or more frequently as appropriate, subject to the availability of funds, to strengthen ties and promote cooperation between the United States and countries in the Western Hemisphere, as well as civil society, business, diaspora, women, and youth leaders.
(b)
Authorization
The Secretary of State is authorized to carry out the policy described in subsection (a).
(c)
Cities Summit of the Americas
(1)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(A)
Subnational diplomacy strengthens democratic governance by enhancing local leaders’ ability to tackle shared challenges, and deepens United States ties with regional partners by localizing bilateral and multilateral partnerships and connections.
(B)
The first-ever Cities Summit of the Americas in 2023 promoted a valuable exchange of best practices and lessons learned between city, State, municipal, and regional leaders and should be held as part of the Summit of the Americas process.
(2)
In general
The Secretary of State is authorized to work with the Summit of the Americas Secretariat to support the organization of one Cities Summit of the Americas, across cities in the Western Hemisphere, including the United States, to take place as a part of each Summit of the Americas described in subsection (a), to promote subnational cooperation and serve as a catalyst in fostering engagement with representatives of government, civil society, faith-based organizations, business, academia, youth, culture and the arts, Latin American and Caribbean diaspora communities, and underrepresented groups.
(d)
Summit of the Americas implementation unit
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State is authorized to designate an existing official to serve within the Department of State as senior-level coordinator to coordinate, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, matters related to the implementation of Summit of Americas commitments, including tracking and ensuring implementation of commitments made during Summits of the Americas.
(2)
Duties
The duties of the coordinator designated pursuant to paragraph (1) include—
(A)
tracking and ensuring implementation of commitments made during Summits of the Americas; and
(B)
liaising with interagency partners and the National Security Council regarding implementation of summit commitments.
(e)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this section, including the status of commitments of the United States and participating partners for the prior year and upcoming year.
