1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
EMS Counts Act of 2023
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Emergency medical services (referred to in this Act as
EMS
) personnel provide a critical role in emergency response. The EMS workforce consists of a diverse group of health care practitioners, including—
(A)
paramedics, emergency medical technicians (referred to in this Act as
EMTs
), and dual-role firefighter/EMTs and firefighter/paramedics; and
(B)
volunteer personnel serving in each of the roles described in subparagraph (A).
(2)
EMS is an integral component of the response capacity of the United States to disasters and public health crises, such as outbreaks of infectious diseases, bombings, mass shootings, earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes. EMS personnel respond to more than 22,000,000 emergency calls each year including strokes, heart attacks, cardiac arrest, and trauma.
(3)
The Bureau of Labor Statistics compiles information on the number of individuals working in roles across the entire United States workforce. The Bureau of Labor Statistics completes this work by maintaining the Standard Occupational Classification system, which classifies workers and jobs into occupational categories for the purposes of collecting, calculating, analyzing, and disseminating data.
(4)
The Bureau of Labor Statistics fails to accurately count EMS practitioners because of its failure to include dual-role firefighter/EMTs and firefighter/paramedics in their count of EMS personnel.
(5)
Accurately counting the EMS workforce is critical for government agencies in determining the needs of EMS agencies and practitioners. These data are also crucial for informing many aspects of policy, including preparedness for natural disasters, public health emergencies, and acts of terrorism.
3.
Recognition of dual-role firefighters as EMS practitioners
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall revise the broad description under the occupational series
33–2011 Firefighters
of the 2018 Standard Occupational Classification System of the Bureau of Labor Statistics to include the following detailed occupations:
(1)
Firefighters.
(2)
Firefighter/EMTs.
(3)
Firefighter/Paramedics.
(4)
Firefighters, All Other.
4.
Report to Congress
Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress a report that describes—
(1)
the actions taken in 2015 to expand the definition
29–2040 Emergency Medical Technicians and Paramedics
to separately account for the numbers of EMTs and paramedics; and
(2)
the implementation of the revisions under section 3.
