1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting American Households From Rising Energy Costs Act of 2024
.
2.
Prohibition on exports of liquefied natural gas and petroleum products to certain countries
(a)
Prohibitions
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, unless a waiver has been issued under subsection (b), no person or entity may export liquefied natural gas or petroleum products—
(1)
to any entity that is under the ownership or control of the Chinese Communist Party, the People’s Republic of China, the Russian Federation, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or the Islamic Republic of Iran; or
(2)
except on the condition that such liquefied natural gas or petroleum product will not be exported to the People’s Republic of China, the Russian Federation, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(b)
Waiver
(1)
In general
On application by an exporter, the Secretary of Energy may waive, prior to the date of the applicable contract, the prohibitions described in subsection (a) with respect to the sale of liquefied natural gas or petroleum products.
(2)
Requirement
The Secretary of Energy may issue a waiver under this subsection only if the Secretary of Energy determines that the waiver is in the interest of the national security of the United States.
(3)
Applications
An exporter seeking a waiver under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary of Energy an application by such date, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary of Energy may require.
(4)
Notice to Congress
Not later than 15 days after issuing a waiver under this subsection, the Secretary of Energy shall provide a copy of the waiver to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
3.
Enforcement provisions
(a)
Unlawful acts
It shall be unlawful for a person to violate, attempt to violate, conspire to violate, or cause a violation of any prohibition of, or any waiver, license, order, or regulation issued pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Civil penalty
The Secretary of Energy may impose a civil penalty on any person who commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) in an amount not to exceed the greater of—
(1)
$250,000,000; and
(2)
an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(c)
Criminal penalty
A person who knowingly commits, knowingly attempts to commit, or knowingly conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of, an unlawful act described in subsection (a) shall be fined not more than $100,000,000, imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
