1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increase America’s Research Capacity Act of 2023
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Historically Black College or University
The term
Historically Black College or University
means a part B institution described in section 322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1061(2)
).
(2)
R1 institution
The term
R1 institution
means an institution classified as an R1 doctoral university, according to the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education framework as the framework exists on the date of enactment of this Act, by the issuer of the framework.
3.
Comptroller General study on the feasibility of Historically Black Colleges and Universities achieving a certain classification
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare a study on the institutional challenges and barriers hindering Historically Black Colleges and Universities from achieving, and the feasibility of the colleges and universities achieving, classification as an R1 institution.
(2)
Contents
In preparing the study, the Comptroller General may—
(A)
examine topics including—
(i)
funding opportunities and resource allocation required for Historically Black Colleges and Universities to enhance their research infrastructure and capacity, focusing on the opportunities and resources of Federal research agencies, including the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the National Institute of Standards and Technology of the Department of Commerce, and similar offices of the Department of Commerce;
(ii)
strategies for Historically Black Colleges and Universities to recruit and retain highly qualified faculty with strong research backgrounds;
(iii)
best practices and successful models employed by R1 institutions (as of the date the study is completed) that Historically Black Colleges and Universities can adopt; and
(iv)
analyses of—
(I)
which Historically Black Colleges and Universities have transfer agreements for their graduates with R1 institutions, and how many graduates attend R1 institutions under those agreements;
(II)
which institutions of higher education are feeder institutions of Black students into programs at R1 institutions; and
(III)
what role undergraduate Historically Black Colleges and Universities play in preparing students to attend an R1 institution; and
(B)
prepare recommendations for Federal support and initiatives to facilitate the advancement of Historically Black Colleges and Universities in research and innovation.
(b)
Report
Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report containing the results of the study, and recommendations for such legislative and administrative action as the Comptroller General determines to be appropriate, to the appropriate committees of Congress and the Congressional Research Service.
