1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Streamlining More Accessible, Reliable and Transparent Educational Resources for Debt Act
or the
SMARTER Debt Act
.
2.
Interactive dashboard
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
) shall establish and operate an interactive, internet website-based dashboard (referred to in this section as the
dashboard
) that improves public access to information about student loan forgiveness and cancellation programs, repayment programs, and repayment plans, that are authorized under Federal law, including for potential applicants for such programs and plans.
(2)
Design
The dashboard shall be designed in a manner that complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
) and section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (
29 U.S.C. 794d
).
(3)
Consultation
(A)
In general
In establishing the dashboard under paragraph (1), the Secretary may consult with—
(i)
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, the Secretary of each military department, the Attorney General, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, the Capitol Police Board, the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, and heads of other relevant agencies, as the Secretary determines appropriate;
(ii)
Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
)); and
(iii)
relevant entities who may use the dashboard, including—
(I)
students and prospective students at institutions of higher education;
(II)
institutions of higher education, including historically Black colleges and universities (as defined for purposes of section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1061
), Tribal colleges or universities (as defined in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)
), and other minority-serving institutions, as such institutions are described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067q
));
(III)
local educational agencies and secondary schools (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
));
(IV)
State educational agencies (as defined in such section 8101);
(V)
nonprofit organizations; and
(VI)
any other entities that the Secretary determines are relevant.
(B)
Topics
The consultation with stakeholders and entities described in subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be with respect to elements of the dashboard, such as search functions, grant data, user-friendly design, and any other elements that the Secretary determines are appropriate for purposes of this subsection.
(4)
Implementation plan
The Secretary, in consultation with representatives of relevant agencies described in paragraph (3)(A), shall, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, publicly issue a plan to launch the dashboard, including opportunities to improve upon existing publicly accessible websites that may be updated by the Secretary to meet the requirements under subsection (c).
(b)
Updates
The Secretary shall continually maintain the dashboard established under subsection (a) to keep up-to-date information about all relevant programs posted.
(c)
Requirements
The dashboard established under subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, meet the following requirements:
(1)
Provide the following information:
(A)
The name of each program authorized under Federal law that—
(i)
provides for the cancellation or forgiveness of all, or a portion of, covered student loans for certain eligible individuals;
(ii)
provides that an entity (such as an employing office) may agree to repay, by direct payments on behalf of certain eligible individuals, some or all of the covered student loan indebtedness of such eligible individuals that is outstanding; or
(iii)
provides for an income-driven repayment plan that sets monthly student loan payments at an amount that is intended to be affordable based on income and family size.
(B)
An explanation about whether the authorized program is currently operating.
(C)
An explanation of who may be eligible or qualify for that program, including requirements relating to employment, loan type, military service, or other requirements.
(2)
Allow individuals to search the dashboard by key categories for which programs are available, including by career field, program of study, and loan type, and by location (if applicable).
(3)
Provide, as appropriate, access or links to the respective program information pages and online applications.
(d)
Covered student loan
In this Act, the term
covered student loan
means—
(1)
a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.
), including Federal Family Education Loans under part B of such title, Federal Direct Loans under part D of such title, and Federal Perkins Loans under part E of such title;
(2)
a health education assistance loan made or insured under part A of title VII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 292 et seq.
), or under part E of title VIII of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 297a et seq.
); or
(3)
another loan for postsecondary education that is made, insured, or guaranteed by the Federal Government.
