1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Credit Freeze for Newborns Act
.
2.
Security freezes for protected consumers
(a)
In general
Section 605A(j)(2)(A) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681c–1(j)(2)(A)
) is amended to read as follows:
(A)
In general
Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer’s representative that a consumer reporting agency place a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the following shall apply:
(i)
The consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge—
(I)
place the security freeze not later than—
(aa)
in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 business day after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer’s representative; or
(bb)
in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer’s representative; and
(II)
not later than 3 business days after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer’s representative, notify each other consumer reporting agency regarding the request.
(ii)
Upon being notified under subclause (II) of clause (i) regarding the request, the consumer reporting agency receiving the notification shall place the requested freeze in accordance with the requirements under items (aa) and (bb) of subclause (I) of that clause.
.
(b)
Requiring the Social Security Administration To include information on placing a security freeze for a protected consumer under 16 years of age with issuance of social security number or replacement social security card
(1)
In general
Section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(I)
(i)
In this subparagraph, the terms
protected consumer
,
protected consumer’s representative
, and
security freeze
have the meanings given those terms in section 605A(j) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681c–1(j)
).
(ii)
Whenever the Commissioner of Social Security issues a social security account number or a replacement social security card to a protected consumer who is under 16 years of age, the Commissioner shall include, with the social security card and any other information provided to the individual at the time such social security account number or replacement card is issued, information on how the protected consumer’s representative may submit a request for a security freeze on behalf of the protected consumer under section 605A(j) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681c–1(j)
).
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendment made by this subsection shall take effect on the date that is 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
