101.
(a)
For an additional amount for fiscal year 2024, there is hereby appropriated on the date of enactment of this Act, for
Department of Veterans Affairs—Veterans Benefits Administration—Compensation and Pensions
, $2,285,513,000, to remain available until expended.
(b)
For an additional amount for fiscal year 2024, there is hereby appropriated on the date of enactment of this Act, for
Department of Veterans Affairs—Veterans Benefits Administration—Readjustment Benefits
, $596,969,000, to remain available until expended.
(c)
Each amount appropriated or made available in this section is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.
(d)
No part of any appropriation contained in this section shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
(e)
Unless otherwise provided for by this section, the additional amounts appropriated by this section to appropriations accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2024.
102.
(a)
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Government Accountability Office shall initiate a review of the circumstances surrounding and causes of the shortfall in the Veterans Benefits Administration funding in fiscal year 2024 and possible remedies the Department may take in the future to improve annual budget submissions and prevent shortfalls.
(b)
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress revision of the budget submitted under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2025.
(c)
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report identifying potential cost savings measures within the Central Office of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(d)
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024
.
