1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
BOP Release Card ID Act of 2024
.
2.
Identification documents for prisoners being released
(a)
Prisoners being released from Federal custody
Section 4042 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
(d)
Identification documents
(1)
Identification documents
Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the
BOP Release Card ID Act of 2024
, the Director shall issue a photo identification release card that meets the minimum standards under section 202(b) of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (
49 U.S.C. 30301
note) to each prisoner who is a citizen of the United States and is being released from custody from a facility of the Bureau of Prisons.
(2)
Period of validity
A photo identification release card shall be valid for not less than 18 months after the date on which the prisoner to whom the card is issued is released from custody.
(3)
Acceptance of photo identification release card for State IDs
(A)
In general
The Director shall negotiate with each State to establish a system under which a prisoner may use a photo identification release card to obtain identification from the State.
(B)
Reporting
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the
BOP Release Card ID Act of 2024
, and every year thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report on the progress of the Director in negotiating agreements under subparagraph (A).
(4)
Acceptance of photo identification release card for Federal programs and by Federal agencies
A photo identification release card shall be accepted as proof of the identity of the former prisoner to whom the card relates for purposes of—
(A)
the old-age, survivors, and disability insurance benefits program established under title II of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.
);
(B)
the Medicaid program established under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
);
(C)
the Medicare program established under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
);
(D)
any other program, project, or activity of the Department of Health and Human Services;
(E)
the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.
);
(F)
any program, project, or activity funded by the temporary assistance for needy families program under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
);
(G)
any program, project, or activity of the Office of Probation and Pretrial Services of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts;
(H)
any program, project, or activity of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia;
(I)
any program, project, or activity of the Department of Education;
(J)
any program, project, or activity of the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(K)
any program, project, or activity of the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
(L)
any requirement for an individual to present an identification document to obtain entry into a Federal building.
(5)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to satisfy the requirement for the Bureau of Prisons to establish prerelease planning procedures under subsection (a)(6).
(6)
Definitions
In this subsection—
(A)
the term
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Prisons; and
(B)
the term
State
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth or territory of the United States.
.
(b)
Guidance for States
(1)
Guidance
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall issue guidance for States regarding the issuance of photo identification release cards for prisoners being released from custody of a correctional facility of the State.
(2)
State defined
In this subsection, the term
State
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth or territory of the United States.
