1.
Pilot program for tracking awards made through other transaction authority
(a)
Pilot program
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall establish a pilot program to enable the Department of Defense to track the number and amounts awarded to small businesses and nontraditional defense contractors performing on transactions using other transaction authority, including those carried out through consortia. In carrying out the pilot program, the Department shall keep any reporting requirements levied upon the businesses to a minimum and shall seek to maximize the use of existing data reporting structures or the expertise of a consortia-manager.
(b)
Briefings
(1)
Established process
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the process to carry out the pilot program established under subsection (a).
(2)
Collected data
Not later than one year after the briefing provided under paragraph (1), and continuing until the final briefing provided under paragraph (3), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the awards data the pilot program is collecting.
(3)
Final data and recommendations
Not later than September 30, 2029, the Department shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the final data collected for the pilot program and shall include any recommendations to make the data collection permanent.
(c)
Sunset
The authority to carry out the pilot program under this section shall expire on December 31, 2029.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Nontraditional defense contractor
The term
nontraditional defense contractor
has the meaning given in section 3014 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Other transaction authority
The term
other transaction authority
has the means the authority provided under sections 4021 and 4022 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Small business
The term
small business
has the meaning given the term
small business concern
in section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(a)
).
