1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act
.
2.
Grants for training and support services for families and caregivers of people living with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia
Subpart I of part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 254b et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
330Q.
Grants for training and support services for families and caregivers of people living with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Area agency on aging
The term
area agency on aging
has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965.
(2)
Medically underserved community
The term
medically underserved community
has the meaning given the term in section 799B.
(b)
Grants
The Secretary may award grants to public or nonprofit private health care providers described in subsection (c) for the purpose of expanding training and support services for families and caregivers of people living with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia if such health care providers—
(1)
meet the conditions for receiving grants under subsection (d); and
(2)
submit an application to the Secretary in such form, in such manner, and containing such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(c)
Recipients of grants
The public or nonprofit private health care providers described in this subsection include—
(1)
health care organizations;
(2)
community health centers;
(3)
nursing homes;
(4)
senior centers;
(5)
area agencies on aging;
(6)
community-based organizations;
(7)
organizations providing support services for families and caregivers of patients with younger-onset Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia; and
(8)
State, local, and Tribal public health agencies and social service agencies.
(d)
Conditions for receiving grants
To be eligible to receive a grant awarded under subsection (b), a public or nonprofit health care provider described in subsection (c) shall agree—
(1)
to employ a comprehensive approach to caring for patients with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia that integrates treatment of such patients with training and support services for the families and caregivers of such patients;
(2)
in any program to be funded by a grant awarded under subsection (b), that services will be provided in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services are provided; and
(3)
to provide outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the program, and to provide information on Alzheimer's disease and related dementias to the public.
(e)
Coordination
The Secretary shall coordinate with the Director of the Office on Women's Health and the Director of the Office of Minority Health in order to ensure that women, minorities, and patients who live in medically underserved communities are able to benefit from the training and support services funded through grants awarded under subsection (b).
(f)
Funding
(1)
Authorization of appropriations
For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2028.
(2)
Allocation for medically underserved communities
Of the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available not less than 10 percent for grants awarded under subsection (b) to public or nonprofit private health care providers that primarily serve medically underserved communities and meet the requirements under this section.
.
