1.
Progress reports on the national transition plan related to a fluorine-free firefighting foam
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the progress report termination date described in subsection (c), the Administrator, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a progress report on the development and implementation of a national transition plan related to a fluorine-free firefighting foam that meets the performance standards referenced in chapter 6 of the advisory circular of the FAA titled
Aircraft Fire Extinguishing Agents
, issued on July 8, 2004 (Advisory Circular 150/5210–6D) and is acceptable under section 139.319(l) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, for use at part 139 airports.
(b)
Required information
Each progress report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the progress made by the FAA with respect to providing part 139 airports with—
(A)
guidance from the Environmental Protection Agency on acceptable environmental limits relating to fluorine-free firefighting foam;
(B)
guidance from the Department of Defense on the transition of the Department of Defense to a fluorine-free firefighting foam;
(C)
best practices for the decontamination of existing aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicles, systems, and other equipment used to deploy firefighting foam at part 139 airports; and
(D)
timelines for the release of policy and guidance relating to the development of implementation plans for part 139 airports to obtain approved military specification products and firefighting personnel training.
(2)
A comprehensive list of the amount of aqueous film-forming firefighting foam at each part 139 airport as of the date of the submission of the progress report, including the amount of such firefighting foam held in firefighting equipment and the number of gallons regularly kept in reserve at each such airport.
(3)
An assessment of the progress made by the FAA with respect to providing airports that are not part 139 airports and local authorities with responsibility for inspection and oversight with guidance described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) as such guidance relates to the use of fluorine-free firefighting foam at such airports.
(4)
Any other information that the Administrator determines is appropriate.
(c)
Progress report termination date
The progress report termination date described in this subsection is the date on which the Administrator notifies the appropriate committees of Congress that development and implementation of the national transition plan described in subsection (a) is complete.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(2)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
(3)
FAA
The term
FAA
means the Federal Aviation Administration.
(4)
Part 139 airport defined
The term
part 139 airport
means an airport certified under part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
