113 HJ 58 IH: Prohibiting the use of funds available to any United States Government department or agency for the use of force in, or directed at, Syria by the United States Armed Forces.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-09-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 58
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 9, 2013
Mr. Poe of Texas
introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign
Affairs
, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services
, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned
JOINT RESOLUTION
Prohibiting the use of funds available to
any United States Government department or agency for the use of force in, or
directed at, Syria by the United States Armed Forces.
Whereas the Government of Syria has not declared war or
initiated hostilities against the United States or its allies; and
Whereas Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution states that Congress shall have the power
To declare
War
,
To raise and support Armies
,
To provide and
maintain a Navy
, and
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces
: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Sense of
Congress
It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1)
the American
people and Congress do not support the use of the United States Armed Forces
in, or directed at, Syria; and
(2)
there are not
overriding imminent national security interests of the United States at stake
and Congress will not fund any military action taken in contradiction to this
joint resolution.
2.
Prohibition on
use of funds for use of force against Syria
No funds available to any United States
Government department or agency may be used for the use of force in, or
directed at, Syria by the United States Armed Forces unless a subsequent Act of
Congress specifically authorizes such use of force or there is an attack or
imminent attack on the United States, its territories or possessions, or the
United States Armed Forces.
