1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans' Disability Compensation Automatic COLA Act
.
2.
Automatic annual
increase in rates of disability compensation and dependency and indemnity
compensation
(a)
Indexing to
social security increases
Section 5312 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
(1)
Whenever there is an increase in benefit amounts payable under title II of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.
) as a result of a determination made under section 215(i) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 415(i)
), the Secretary shall, effective on the date of such increase in benefit amounts, increase the dollar amounts in effect for the payment of disability compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation by the Secretary, as specified in paragraph (2), as such amounts were in effect immediately before the date of such increase in benefit amounts payable under title II of the Social Security Act, by the same percentage as the percentage by which such benefit amounts are increased.
(2)
The dollar amounts to be increased pursuant to paragraph (1) are the following:
(A)
Compensation
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under section 1114 of this title.
(B)
Additional compensation for
dependents
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under section 1115(1) of this title.
(C)
Clothing allowance
The dollar amount in effect under section 1162 of this title.
(D)
New DIC rates
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1311(a) of this title.
(E)
Old DIC rates
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under section 1311(a)(3) of this title.
(F)
Additional DIC for surviving spouses
with minor children
The dollar amount in effect under section 1311(b) of this title.
(G)
Additional DIC for
disability
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under subsections (c) and (d) of section 1311 of this title.
(H)
DIC for dependent children
Each of the dollar amounts in effect under sections 1313(a) and 1314 of this title.
(3)
Whenever there is an increase under paragraph (1) in amounts in effect for the payment of disability compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation, the Secretary shall publish such amounts, as increased pursuant to such paragraph, in the Federal Register at the same time as the material required by section 215(i)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 415(i)(2)(D)
) is published by reason of a determination under section 215(i) of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 415(i)
).
.
(b)
Effective
date
Subsection (d) of section 5312 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, shall take effect on the first day of the first calendar year that begins after the date of the enactment of this Act.
