1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Timothy Nugent Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
Timothy Nugent is considered the
Father of Accessibility
and the
Godfather of Rehabilitation Education
on college campuses and has been a relentless innovator and advocate for disabled people in the United States;
(2)
Nugent fought for and secured the right to higher education and mainstream education integration for millions of people with disabilities in the United States;
(3)
many of the architectural accessibility standards and laws of the United States trace back directly to innovations created by Nugent;
(4)
while at the University of Illinois, Nugent oversaw the development of adaptive sports programs accommodating athletes in wheelchairs;
(5)
Nugent founded the first higher educational program for wounded and disabled soldiers in the world after World War II;
(6)
in the years after World War II, Nugent confronted the bias of the general public in his efforts to bring students with disabilities into the mainstream of college campuses and society;
(7)
Nugent disproved many people in the medical community who believed that rehabilitation and sporting activities were harmful to individuals with such severe disabilities or that education was not necessary because of their belief that the lifespan of persons with spinal cord injuries would be too short for them to benefit from college degrees; and
(8)
Nugent would be the first person awarded a Congressional Gold Medal for work on behalf of persons with disabilities.
3.
Congressional Gold Medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Timothy Nugent, in recognition of his pioneering work on behalf of people with disabilities, including disabled veterans.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.
5.
National medals
Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for the purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
