The Secretary of   and   forwarded to the   under date of  , the names of 10 men whom it was desired to appoint to various positions within the   without examination under the civil-service rules. The reasons for which it was desired to waive the rules in each case were set forth by the Secretary as follows:

 , appointed special examiner, at $2,500,  . Mr.  's special qualifications for service in   are by reason of having been secretary to  , the Commissioners testifying to his general worth, and are of the opinion that much of the success of the work of the   is due to his expert knowledge of the questions handled.

 , appointed clerk, at $1,800,  . For special qualifications, see reasons for requesting appointment as chief of division of consular reports,  .

 , appointed chief of division, consular reports,  , at $2,100,  . It is stated that Mr.   is especially qualified for the position by reason of long service as   at   and  , and special knowledge acquired as editor of The  , the organ of the  , and as Professor of Commerce in  . He is said to be an authority on the history of commerce, manufacture, and labor.

  and  , appointed assistant telegraphers, at $1,000,  . The appointments of Messrs.   and   were made for the reason that at the time of their appointments there was not a register of eligibles in   from which telegraphers of sufficient experience could be selected. The appointees are both men of known experience in every line of their profession.

 , appointed lieutenant of the watch, at $720,  . Mr.   has special qualifications for the position of lieutenant of watch, by reason of   service in   and experience as sergeant of police in   and as inspector in the   constabulary.

The initial steps in the organization of   and   required the services of several messengers, whose characters, integrity, and ability to do the work required, were personally known to the Secretary, or the executive officers assisting in the work of organization. For this reason the following-named persons were appointed:  ,  ,  , Newport  , messengers, and  , assistant messenger.

For the reasons set forth by the Secretary of   and   in his memorandum the   recommended to the President that the appointment of these men, without examination, under the rules be approved and the order was issued on  .
