1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Responsible Oversight To Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act
or the
PROTECT Our Kids Act
.
2.
Prohibition on availability of funds
(a)
Prohibition
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds may be made available under an applicable program to any elementary school or secondary school that—
(1)
has a partnership in effect with a cultural or language institute directly or indirectly funded by the Government of the People's Republic of China, including a Confucius Institute;
(2)
operates a learning center directly or indirectly supported by the Government of the People's Republic of China (commonly referred to as a
Confucius Classroom
); or
(3)
otherwise receives support from an individual or entity acting directly or indirectly on behalf of the Government of the People’s Republic of China, including support in the form of teaching materials, personnel, funds, or other resources.
(b)
Effective date
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Contracts made prior to date of enactment
(1)
In general
(A)
Waiver request submission
In the case of an elementary school or a secondary school that is a party to a contract described in paragraph (2), the school timely shall submit to the Secretary a request for a waiver of the prohibition under subsection (a) that includes—
(i)
the complete and unredacted text of the contract, and if the contract is not in English, a translated copy of the text into English; and
(ii)
a statement demonstrating that the contract is for the benefit of the school’s mission and students and will promote the security, stability, and economic vitality of the United States.
(B)
Waiver issuance
the Secretary, upon receipt of a request submitted under subparagraph (A), may issue a waiver to the school for a period beginning on the effective date specified in subsection (b) and ending the date on which the contract terminates.
(2)
Contracts described
A contract is described in this paragraph if the contract—
(A)
takes effect before the date of the enactment of this Act;
(B)
continues to be effective after the effective date specified in subsection (b); and
(C)
relates to at least one of the circumstances described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a).
(d)
Notice to affected schools
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide notice to elementary and secondary schools of the requirements of this section together with guidance for achieving compliance with such requirements.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Applicable program
The term
applicable program
has the meaning given that term in section 400(c)(1) of the General Education Provisions Act (
20 U.S.C. 1221(c)(1)
).
(2)
ESEA Terms
The terms
elementary school
,
secondary school
, and
Secretary
have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
