1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Weather Radar Coverage Improvement Act
2.
Next generation phased array radar
(a)
In general
The Under Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the National Weather Service, shall develop a plan to replace the Next Generation Weather Radar of the National Weather Service (
NEXRAD
) system in existence as of the date of the enactment of this section.
(b)
Procurement deadline
The Under Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure the replacement described in subsection (a) is completed by not later than September 30, 2040.
(c)
Elements
The plan developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Estimates of quantifiable improvements in coverage and accuracy to be made from replacement of the NEXRAD system referred to in such subsection.
(2)
Development of a prototype digital phased array radar to test and determine the specifications and requirements for such replacement.
(3)
Establishment of a weather surveillance phased array radar testbed for the following:
(A)
Evaluation of commercial radars with the potential to replace or supplement the NEXRAD system.
(B)
Providing technical assistance for the use of small, gap filling radars in regions where geographical topography prevents full utilization of larger systems.
(4)
Consultation and input solicited from meteorologists, emergency managers, and public safety officials regarding the specifications and requirements for replacement of the NEXRAD system referred in such subsection.
(d)
Radar-as-a-Service
(1)
In general
In order to supplement gaps in radar coverage in existence as of the date of the enactment of this section and ensure the continued performance of weather radar capabilities, the Director of the National Weather Service may utilize and contract with third party entities to fill such radar gaps using diverse weather radars and data assimilation technologies to better detect significant precipitation and severe weather over a greater area across the population.
(2)
Priority
In carrying out the activities under paragraph (1), the Director of the National Weather Service shall prioritize utilizing and contracting with third party entities that have participated in the testbed established in accordance with subsection (c)(3).
(3)
Weather camera systems
In carrying out the activities under paragraph (1), the Director of the National Weather Service may consider weather camera systems and services as viable technologies to supplement gaps in radar coverage.
(e)
Updates to Congress
The Under Secretary shall provide to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate periodic updates on the implementation of this section.
(f)
Definition
In this section, the term
Under Secretary
has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (
15 U.S.C. 8501
).
