1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Responsive Counterterrorism Policy Act
.
2.
Counterterrorism strategies
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State shall direct the Department of State’s Bureau of Counterterrorism to develop and maintain a written counterterrorism (CT) strategy for each country or region where there is a significant terrorist threat or ongoing United States CT engagement in order to enhance the effectiveness, coordination, and accountability of United States CT policy.
(2)
Purpose
Each strategy required by this subsection is intended to be distinct from the Department’s annual Country Reports on Terrorism and is to serve as a forward-looking, operational planning document that is specific to the Bureau of Counterterrorism.
(b)
Matters To be included
(1)
In general
Each strategy required by subsection (a) shall—
(A)
identify the specific threats posed, articulate clear objectives, outline coordinated actions with interagency partners and international partners, and describe metrics for assessing progress and success;
(B)
specifically describe how coordination with such partners will be carried out, including clearly defined roles, responsibilities, and mechanisms for collaboration;
(C)
take into account local political, economic, and social dynamics and should align with broader United States foreign policy goals; and
(D)
ensure that the Bureau of Counterterrorism shall serve as the lead entity with respect to such strategies.
(2)
Interagency and international partners
For the purposes of paragraph (1)(A)—
(A)
interagency partners shall include all relevant bureaus, offices, and components of United States Government departments and agencies that contribute to CT efforts in any capacity; and
(B)
international partners shall include all foreign government entities and local actors that are actively engaged in, and demonstrably committed to, CT efforts within their respective countries or regions.
(3)
References
Any references to other United States Government department or agency or international partner is intended to articulate the Bureau of Counterterrorism’s understanding of ongoing efforts, coordination mechanisms, and areas of engagement, and not to imply shared authorship or responsibility for any strategic documents.
(4)
Updates
Each strategy required by subsection (a) shall be reviewed and updated on an annual basis, or more frequently if significant changes in threat dynamics or policy priorities occur. Each such update should incorporate lessons learned and reflect changes in operational context or strategic priorities.
(c)
Congressional briefings
(1)
Initial briefing
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Bureau of Counterterrorism shall brief Congress on the countries and regions for which it plans to develop the strategies required by subsection (a), including the criteria used to prioritize such strategies.
(2)
Annual briefings
The Bureau of Counterterrorism shall brief Congress annually on the development, implementation, and updates to the strategies required by subsection (a), including how the strategies inform programmatic funding and diplomatic engagement.
