1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Making Advancements in Commercial Hypersonics Act
or the
MACH Act
.
2.
Making advancements in commercial hypersonics program
(a)
In general
In conducting hypersonics research pursuant to section 40112(d) of title 51, United States Code, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (in this section referred to as the
Administrator
) may establish the Making Advancements in Commercial Hypersonics Program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) to facilitate opportunities for testing of high-speed aircraft and other technologies that advance scientific research and technology development related to hypersonic aircraft.
(b)
Limitation
The Program may not fund the development of technologies that are supported by the testing described in subsection (a).
(c)
Strategic plan
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, acting through the Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate, shall develop a strategic plan for activities under subsection (a) that aligns with the hypersonic research roadmap required under section 603 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–10
;
51 U.S.C. 20302
note).
(d)
Coordination, consultation, and collaboration
(1)
Coordination
The Administrator shall ensure coordination between the Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate and other Mission Directorates, as appropriate, to identify technologies eligible for testing opportunities under the Program.
(2)
Consultation; collaboration
The Administrator shall consult and seek to collaborate, as appropriate, with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration on activities related to the Program, including development, testing, and evaluation of high-speed aircraft and related technologies.
(e)
Report
The Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate—
(1)
not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, a report that—
(A)
describes activities of the Program; and
(B)
includes the strategic plan required under subsection (c); and
(2)
not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, a report describing progress in carrying out the Program, including regarding the number and type of testing opportunities carried out in the previous fiscal year and planned for the upcoming fiscal year.
(f)
Research security
Nothing in this section authorizes the Administrator to develop, implement, or execute an agreement related to technologies under this section with any entity of concern, a foreign business entity, or a foreign country of concern.
(g)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
Entity of concern
The term
entity of concern
has the meaning given such term in section 10114 of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (
Public Law 117–167
;
42 U.S.C. 18912
).
(2)
Foreign business entity
The term
foreign business entity
means an entity that is majority-owned or majority-controlled (as such term is defined in section 800.208 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, or a successor regulation), or minority owned greater than 25 percent by—
(A)
any governmental organization of a foreign country of concern; or
(B)
any other entity that is—
(i)
known to be owned or controlled by any governmental organization of a foreign country of concern; or
(ii)
organized under, or otherwise subject to, the laws of a foreign country of concern.
(3)
Foreign country of concern
The term
foreign country of concern
has the meaning given such term in section 9901 of title XCIX of division H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
15 U.S.C. 4651
).
(4)
High-speed aircraft
The term
high-speed aircraft
has the meaning given such term in section 1009 of the Federal Aviation Reauthorization Act of 2024 (
Public Law 118–63
;
49 U.S.C. 44701
note).
