1.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Color Sergeant Andrew Jackson Smith of the 55th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, formerly of the 41st Illinois Infantry Regiment, was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions in the Civil War.
(2)
His Medal of Honor citation reads
Corporal Andrew Jackson Smith, of Clinton, Illinois, a member of the 55th Massachusetts Voluntary Infantry, distinguished himself on 30 November 1864 by saving his regimental colors, after the color bearer was killed during a bloody charge at the Battle of Honey Hill, South Carolina. In the late afternoon, as the 55th Regiment pursued enemy skirmishers and conducted a running fight, they ran into a swampy area backed by a rise where the Confederate Army awaited. The surrounding woods and thick underbrush impeded infantry movement and artillery support. The 55th and 54th regiments formed columns to advance to the enemy position in a flanking movement. As the Confederates repelled other units, the 55th and 54th regiments continued to move into flanking positions. Forced into a narrow gorge crossing a swamp in the face of the enemy positions, the 55th's Color-Sergeant was killed by an exploding shell, and Corporal Smith took the Regimental Colors from his hand and carried them through heavy grape and canister fire. Although half of the officers and a third of the enlisted men engaged in the fight were killed or wounded, Corporal Smith continued to expose himself to the enemy fire by carrying the colors throughout the battle. Through his actions, the Regimental Colors of the 55th Infantry Regiment were not lost to the enemy. Corporal Andrew Jackson Smith's extraordinary valor in the face of deadly enemy fire is in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon him, the 55th Regiment, and the United States Army.
.
2.
Name of Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic, Bloomington, Illinois
The Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic located at 207 Hamilton Road, Bloomington, Illinois, shall after the date of enactment of this Act be known and designated as the
Andrew Jackson Smith Medal of Honor Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic
. Any reference to such clinic in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a reference to the Andrew Jackson Smith Medal of Honor Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic.
