1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Knock Out Cancer Act
or the
KO Cancer Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the world and has touched nearly every life, either directly or indirectly.
(2)
Cancer is the cause of nearly 1 out of every 4 deaths in the United States, since 2000 totaling over 15 million American lives.
(3)
Efforts to increase awareness of cancer symptoms among patients and clinicians would lead to earlier detection and improvements in survival rates.
(4)
Scientific understanding and research lead to innovations in effective treatments, controls, and cures for cancer.
(5)
The National Cancer Institute has been a leader in finding medical breakthroughs for treatment and therapies for cancer patients.
(6)
Through substantial investment in cancer research, potentially even the tripling of necessary funding, the United States will be best able to address the mortality rates of cancer and the impacts on the patient population.
3.
Increasing NCI budget for cancer research
To conduct or support cancer research, there is hereby appropriated, for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030, to the National Cancer Institute, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the total amount appropriated to the National Cancer Institute for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until expended. Amounts appropriated pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be in addition to amounts otherwise made available to the National Cancer Institute.
4.
Report to Congress on cancer drug shortages
(a)
Study
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, in collaboration with such other agencies as the Secretary deems necessary, shall study the reasons for cancer drug shortages, including—
(1)
economic reasons;
(2)
supply chain failures;
(3)
delays and other complications relating to—
(A)
the development of cancer drugs; and
(B)
the approval of such drugs by the Food and Drug Administration; and
(4)
insufficient generic drugs and biosimilar biological products.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall complete the study under subsection (a) and submit a report to the appropriate committees of the Congress on the results of such study.
(2)
Recommendations
The report under paragraph (1) shall include recommendations for addressing the reasons for cancer drug shortages.
