1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Freedom from Automated Speed Enforcement Act of 2025
.
2.
Automated speed enforcement system
(a)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
180.
Automated speed enforcement system
(a)
Withholding of apportionments for noncompliance
The Secretary shall withhold 10 percent of the amount required to be apportioned to any State under each of paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 104(b) on the first day of each fiscal year, beginning after September 30, 2026, in which the State fails to submit the certification described in subsection (b).
(b)
Annual certification
(1)
In general
To be in compliance under subsection (a), the Governor of a State shall submit to the Secretary a certification that no jurisdiction in such State operates an automated speed enforcement system.
(2)
Audit
To verify such certification, the Secretary may conduct an audit or require documentation as the Secretary determines necessary.
(c)
Exception for school and work zones
Notwithstanding subsection (b), a State may operate an automated speed enforcement system in—
(1)
a designated school zone during posted school hours; and
(2)
an active construction work zone—
(A)
for the duration of the construction project; and
(B)
if—
(i)
when the location in which the automated speed system is operating is not an active construction work zone, the posted speed limit is less than 55 miles per hour; and
(ii)
such zone displays clear signage indicating that—
(I)
the area is a construction zone; and
(II)
there is an automated speed enforcement system in use.
(d)
Definition of automated speed enforcement system
In this section, the term
automated speed enforcement system
means any device that—
(1)
captures an image of a vehicle for the purpose of issuing a citation for exceeding a speed limit; and
(2)
operates without the presence of a law enforcement officer.
.
(b)
Regulations
The Secretary of Transportation may issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out section 180 of title 23, United States Code (as added by this Act).
(c)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
180. Automated speed enforcement system.
.
