1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States Secret Service Reserve Fund Act of 2026
.
2.
United States Secret Service Reserve Fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established a fund, to be known as the
United States Secret Service Reserve Fund
, for the necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service related to the protection of individuals identified in section 3056 of title 18, United States Code (including the payment of the salaries of employees who directly provide such protection), during a lapse of appropriations for the United States Secret Service.
(b)
Use of the fund
The Director of the United States Secret Service may use amounts from the United States Secret Service Reserve Fund only for the purposes described in subsection (a) during the period—
(1)
beginning on the date of a lapse in appropriations with respect to the United States Secret Service; and
(2)
ending on the earlier of—
(A)
the date on which the lapse in appropriations described in paragraph (1) ends; or
(B)
the date that is 30 days after the date described in paragraph (1).
(c)
Appropriation
There is hereby appropriated, out of money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $106,000,000 for the United States Secret Service Reserve Fund.
(d)
Deposit of appropriated funds into the fund
The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit amounts appropriated under this section to the United States Secret Service Reserve Fund.
(e)
Release of funds to the Treasury
Not later than January 31, 2027, the Director of the United States Secret Service shall transfer any amounts not used for the purposes described in subsection (b) remaining in the United States Secret Service Reserve Fund as of December 31, 2026, to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such amounts shall be rescinded.
(f)
Report to Congress
Not later than 30 calendar days after the date of compliance with subsection (e), the Director of the United States Secret Service shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the uses of, and the transactions relating to, the United States Secret Service Reserve Fund.
(g)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
(3)
The Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
(4)
The Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
(5)
The Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(6)
The Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
