1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Grant Integrity and Border Security Act
.
2.
Federal grant requirement related to the bringing in and harboring of certain aliens
(a)
Requirement
The head of each agency shall require that any applicant for a Federal grant submit a certification that such applicant has not violated in the previous 10 years, is not in violation of, and will not violate during the term of the grant section 274(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1324(a)
).
(b)
Authority To withhold funds
The head of the relevant agency shall withhold any funds from a grantee determined by the head of an agency to be in violation of this section for a Federal grant. Such determination may be made based on the following:
(1)
Any information provided by the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director to the head of the agency.
(2)
Any employee or former employee of the recipient of a Federal grant who is convicted of or admits to having committed a violation of section 274(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1324(a)
) while performing official duties for that grantee.
(3)
Any other credible information received by the head of the agency.
(c)
Information on conviction
Not later than 90 days after the date of conviction, admission to a violation, or completion of an investigation under section 274(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1324(a)
), the Attorney General shall submit to the Director information relating to any individual who was convicted or admitted to a violation under such section, or regarding whom the Attorney General otherwise believes there to be a reasonable basis to conclude that a violation of such section occurred.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(3)
Federal grant
The term
Federal grant
has the meaning given the term
Federal award
in section 6401 of title 31, United States Code.
