1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Counting Aluminum Net Surplus Act of 2026
or the
CANS Act of 2026
.
2.
Aluminum recycling study
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out an ongoing study to assess the amount of aluminum disposed of in landfills.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this section and triennially thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall submit to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Natural Resources, and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report regarding the study required under subsection (a).
(2)
Requirements
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following information:
(A)
An estimate of the amount of aluminum disposed of in landfills each year and the associated end-use market of such aluminum.
(B)
An estimate of the amount of aluminum disposed of in landfills by industrial waste sites and automotive industry application each year.
(C)
An estimate of the amount of aluminum, both in aggregate and per country, exported through foreign scrap purchases, including to foreign entities of concern, each year.
(D)
Improvements to collection and sorting technologies needed to ensure aluminum is returned to and used in the supply chain.
(E)
Policies necessary to ensure that—
(i)
aluminum can be diverted from landfills; and
(ii)
aluminum scrap that would otherwise be exported remains in the domestic supply chain.
(F)
The effect of increased domestic aluminum recycling on—
(i)
lessening the dependence of the United States on foreign entities of concern for sourcing aluminum; and
(ii)
domestic manufacturing capacity for aluminum.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Aluminum scrap
The term
aluminum scrap
means scrap that is composed primarily of aluminum.
(2)
Foreign entity of concern
The term
foreign entity of concern
has the meaning given the term in section 40207(a) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
42 U.S.C. 18741(a)
).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.
