1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pay Our Capitol Police Act
.
2.
Continuing appropriations for the United States Capitol Police
(a)
In general
There are hereby appropriated for fiscal year 2026, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for any period during which interim or full-year appropriations for fiscal year 2026 are not in effect—
(1)
such sums as are necessary to provide salaries, including overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, tuition reimbursement, recruitment and retention bonuses, and other applicable employee benefits, to—
(A)
members of the Capitol Police whom the Chief of the Capitol Police determines are excepted employees or employees performing emergency work, as those terms are defined by the Office of Personnel Management, during such period; and
(B)
civilian employees of the Capitol Police whom the Chief of the Capitol Police determines are providing support to the members of the Capitol Police described in subparagraph (A); and
(2)
such sums as are necessary to provide payment to contractors of the Capitol Police whom the Chief of the Capitol Police determines are providing support to members of the Capitol Police described in paragraph (1)(A).
(b)
Interim continuing appropriations
Appropriations made available under subsection (a) may not be obligated or expended for the Capitol Police during any period during which continuing appropriations for the purposes for which amounts are made available under subsection (a) are in effect for the Capitol Police.
(c)
Charge to future appropriations
Expenditures made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever an Act in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is included is enacted into law.
3.
Termination
Appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act shall be available until whichever of the following first occurs:
(1)
The enactment into law of appropriations for the Capitol Police through September 30, 2026 (including a continuing appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts are made available in section 2.
(2)
The enactment into law of appropriations for the legislative branch through September 30, 2026 (including a continuing appropriation) without any appropriation for such purpose.
(3)
September 30, 2026.
4.
Effective date; special rule
(a)
Effective date
This Act shall take effect as if enacted on October 1, 2025.
(b)
Special rule
Payments of pay and allowances from amounts appropriated under section 2 for any portion of the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on the day before the date of enactment of this Act shall be provided as soon as practicable after such date of enactment.
