1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Business over Ballots Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Small Business Administration should focus on aiding and assisting small business concerns;
(2)
facilitating access to voter registration is beyond the scope of the mission of the Administration and the authority of the Administration under Federal law; and
(3)
any Executive order issued by the President may not conflict with this Act or otherwise compel the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to facilitate access to voter registration.
3.
Limitations on facilitation of access to voter registration by the Small Business Administration
(a)
Prohibition
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration may not take any action to facilitate access to voter registration other than actions authorized by Federal law.
(b)
Terms of contracts
On or after the date of the enactment of this Act, any contract or other agreement entered into by the Administrator to provide assistance to a person shall include a term stating that such person may not use such assistance to facilitate access to voter registration.
(c)
Existing recipients
A recipient of assistance from the Administrator may not use such assistance to facilitate access to voter registration unless explicitly authorized by the terms of such assistance.
(d)
Covered entities
The Administrator may not use, act through, or otherwise make a request of a covered entity to engage in activities to facilitate access to voter registration unless the Administrator is so authorized by Congress.
(e)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Covered entity
The term
covered entity
—
(A)
means an entity, State government, or unit of local government that receives funding or other assistance from the Administrator under a contract, cooperative agreement, memorandum of understanding, or other agreement to carry out a program administered by the Administrator; and
(B)
does not include a person that receives a loan or loan guarantee under section 7 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636
).
