1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop China’s Continuous Purchase of Land Act
or the
Stop CCP Land Act
.
2.
Restricting the purchase of agricultural land by foreign persons
(a)
Eligibility To receive covered program funds
Beginning on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, a State may not receive covered program funds unless that State has in effect a State law—
(1)
prohibiting each covered foreign country (or a person acting on behalf of a covered foreign country) from purchasing agricultural land in the State; and
(2)
requiring that persons from a covered foreign country that hold agricultural land in the State prior to the date of the enactment of the State law described in paragraph (1) annually submit a report to the State department of agriculture (or equivalent) with respect to such agricultural holdings.
(b)
Reports
(1)
Secretary of Agriculture report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a report on how the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (
7 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
) should be updated to ensure accurate documentation and monitoring of foreign investment in agricultural land.
(2)
GAO report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
(A)
an assessment of the impact of this Act with respect to national security; and
(B)
any measures that can be taken to better secure real estate in the United States from foreign manipulation.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
AFIDA terms
The terms
agricultural land
and
foreign person
have the meanings given those terms in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (
7 U.S.C. 3508
).
(2)
Covered foreign country
The term
covered foreign country
—
(A)
means a country listed on the State Department’s Defense Trade Control Country Policies List (listed in table 1 to paragraph (d)(1) under section 126.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations); and
(B)
includes Russia.
(3)
Covered program funds
The term
covered program funds
means funds made available under
Public Law 117–169
for—
(A)
Environmental and Climate Data Improvement;
(B)
Electric Loans for Renewable Energy;
(C)
Assistance for Distressed Borrowers;
(D)
the Equity Commission;
(E)
Assistance and Support for Underserved Farmers, Ranchers, and Foresters;
(F)
the Forest Legacy Program;
(G)
the Urban and Community Forestry Assistance Program;
(H)
Home Energy Performance-Based, Whole-House Rebates;
(I)
the High-Efficiency Electric Home Rebate Program;
(J)
State-Based Home Efficiency Contractor Training Grants;
(K)
Assistance for Latest and Zero Building Energy Code Adoption;
(L)
Investing in Coastal Communities and Climate Resilience;
(M)
Acquisition of Hurricane Forecasting Aircraft;
(N)
the DHS Office of Chief Readiness Support Officer;
(O)
Conservation and Resilience;
(P)
Conservation and Ecosystem Restoration;
(Q)
Canal Improvement Projects; or
(R)
Climate Change Technical Assistance for Insular Areas.
