1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Small Businesses from Predatory Website Lawsuits Act
.
2.
Amendment to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 relating to consumer facing websites and mobile applications owned or operated by a private entity
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new title:
VI
Consumer Facing Websites and Mobile Applications Owned or Operated by a Private Entity
601.
Administrative remedies
(a)
Exhaustion of administrative remedies
No individual may commence a civil action for the failure of a consumer facing website or mobile application to comply with the title III until all administrative remedies under this section have been exhausted.
(b)
Notice to owner or operator
(1)
Notice
Prior to filing a complaint with the Attorney General under subsection (c), an individual must first notify the private owner or operator of a consumer facing website or mobile application that such website or mobile application is not in compliance with the standard for compliance under title III.
(2)
Administrative complaint
If, within 180 days after receiving notice under subsection (b), the owner or operator of a consumer facing website or mobile application fails to bring such website or such application into compliance with title III, an individual may file a complaint with the Department.
(3)
Copy of complaint
If an individual files a complaint with the Department of Justice (referred to in this title as the
Department
) under paragraph (1), a copy of such complaint shall be provided to the owner or operator of a consumer facing website or mobile application.
(c)
Reporting of violations to Attorney General
(1)
Deadline to file complaint
If an individual files a complaint with the Department, such complaint shall be filed within the 180-day period beginning on the date after the 180-day period under subsection (b)(1) has terminated.
(2)
Investigation by Attorney General
Upon receiving a complaint of an alleged violation, the Attorney General shall complete an investigation within 360 days to determine whether a violation exists.
(3)
Final agency determination
(A)
Compliance determination
For the purpose of determining whether an individual may commence a civil action described in subsection (a), a determination that the owner or operator of a consumer facing website or mobile application is in compliance with title III during the 360-day period after a complaint is filed with the Department is a final determination.
(B)
No determination
For the purpose of determining whether an individual may commence a civil action described in subsection (a), the failure of the Attorney General to make a determination during the 360-day period after a complaint is filed with the Department shall be considered a final determination of compliance.
602.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Consumer facing website
The term
consumer facing website
means any website that is purposefully made accessible to the public for commercial purposes.
(2)
Mobile applications
The term
mobile application
means a consumer facing software application that can be executed on a mobile platform, or a web-based software application that is tailored to a mobile platform but is executed on a server.
.
3.
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 515 the following new item:
Title VI—Consumer Facing Websites and Mobile Applications Owned or Operated by a Private Entity
Sec. 601. Administrative remedies.
Sec. 602. Definitions.
.
