1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Primary Care Improvement Act
.
2.
Clarifying that certain payment arrangements are allowable under the medicaid program
(a)
Rule of construction
Nothing in title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
) shall be construed as prohibiting a State, under its State plan (or waiver of such plan) under such title (including through a medicaid managed care organization (as defined in section 1903(m)(1)(A) of such Act)), from providing medical assistance consisting of primary care services through a direct primary care arrangement with a health care provider, including as part of a value-based care arrangement established by the State. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term
direct primary care arrangement
means, with respect to any individual, an arrangement under which such individual is provided medical assistance consisting solely of primary care services provided by primary care practitioners, if the sole compensation for such care is a fixed periodic fee.
(b)
Guidance
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall—
(1)
convene at least one virtual open door meeting to seek input from stakeholders, including primary care providers who practice under the direct primary care model, state Medicaid agencies, and Medicaid managed care organizations; and
(2)
taking into account such input, issue guidance to States on how a State may implement direct primary care arrangements (as defined in subsection (a)) under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
).
(c)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report containing—
(1)
an analysis of the extent to which States are contracting with independent physicians, independent physician practices, and primary care practices for purposes of furnishing medical assistance under State plans (or waivers of such plans) under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
); and
(2)
an analysis of quality of care and cost of care furnished to individuals enrolled under such title where such care is paid for under a direct primary care arrangement (as defined in subsection (a)) through a medicaid managed care organization (as so defined).
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter statutory requirements under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.
) for cost-sharing requirements or be construed to limit medical assistance solely to those provided under a direct primary care arrangement.
