1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Research Ownership Transfer to External Competitive Threats (PROTECT) Act of 2026
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered foreign government
The term
covered foreign government
means the government of any prohibited nation, including any agency, instrumentality, or entity controlled by such government.
(2)
Covered research
The term
covered research
means any research, invention, discovery, or intellectual property developed or conducted, in whole or in part, by a United States university, or by any faculty member, staff member, or student affiliated with such university.
(3)
Designated foreign terrorist organization
The term
designated foreign terrorist organization
has the meaning given such term in section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
(4)
Intellectual property rights
The term
intellectual property rights
includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, data rights, and any other form of proprietary information or rights related to covered research.
(5)
Prohibited nation
The term
prohibited nation
has the meaning given such term in section 4.
(6)
United States university
The term
United States university
means any institution of higher education as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
) or section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
), headquartered in the United States.
3.
Prohibition on acquisition of intellectual property rights
(a)
In general
No United States university, or any faculty member, staff member, or student affiliated with such university, shall enter into any contract, agreement, license, sale, transfer, or other transaction that grants, conveys, or otherwise provides a covered foreign government with any intellectual property rights in covered research.
(b)
Applicability
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall apply to any transaction entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Prohibited nations
The term
prohibited nation
means—
(1)
the Russian Federation;
(2)
the People’s Republic of China;
(3)
the Islamic Republic of Iran;
(4)
any nation that is engaged in armed conflict with the United States;
(5)
any nation that harbors, financially supports, or otherwise cooperates with a designated foreign terrorist organization;
(6)
any nation designated as a State Sponsor of Terrorism by the U.S. Department of State; or
(7)
any other nation that the Secretary of State determines poses a threat to the national security of the United States.
5.
Penalties
(a)
Violations not endangering national security
Any United States university that violates section 3 shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $500,000 for each such violation, if the Secretary of State determines that the violation does not endanger the national security of the United States.
(b)
Violations endangering national security
Any United States university that violates section 3 with respect to covered research, in general, or covered research related to critical energy or defense issues, which may affect the national security of the United States shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000,000 for each such violation.
(c)
Seizure of funds
In the case of any violation under subsection (a) or (b), any funds or other consideration received by the United States university in exchange for the intellectual property rights in the covered research shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture to the United States Government.
(d)
Enforcement
The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall enforce the penalties under this section.
6.
Determinations by Secretary of State
(a)
In general
Any determination required under this Act, including determinations regarding prohibited nations under section 4(7), the level of threat to national security under section 5(a) or 5(b), or whether covered research relates to critical energy or defense issues under section 5(b), shall be made by the Secretary of State.
(b)
Finality
Determinations under subsection (a) shall be final and committed to agency discretion. No such determination, finding, or action under this section shall be subject to judicial review, except to the extent required by the Constitution for colorable claims of violation of constitutional rights.
7.
Severability
If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this Act, and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
