1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Blast Overpressure Research and Mitigation Task Force Act
.
2.
Establishment of the Blast Overpressure Task Force of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish, through the Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee under section 320 of title 38, United States Code, the Blast Overpressure Task Force of the Department of Veterans Affairs (in this section referred to as the
Task Force
).
(b)
Duties
The duties of the Task Force are the following:
(1)
To improve how the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, provides health care and other benefits to veterans or members of the Armed Forces diagnosed with traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, or other symptoms, from blast overpressure or blast exposure.
(2)
To align research agendas and acquisition strategies of the Department regarding such health care.
(3)
To establish physiological and cognitive performance baselines for such veterans and members.
(4)
To prioritize translational research regarding such veterans and members, including research regarding—
(A)
sleep therapy;
(B)
blast-related gut health;
(C)
mobile diagnostics;
(D)
vestibular dysfunction and balance impairment;
(E)
autonomic nervous system dysregulation;
(F)
cumulative mild traumatic brain injury;
(G)
neuroinflammation and glial activation; and
(H)
any other issue determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(5)
To monitor sensory decline (including with regards to vision, hearing, and vestibular function) and stress-related impairments among such veterans and members.
(6)
To support continuity of such care by integrating mobile and longitudinal diagnostic tools.
(c)
Reports
The Task Force shall issue annual reports to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives. Each such report shall include the following elements:
(1)
Details of research initiatives, coordination outcomes, and clinical advancements of the Task Force.
(2)
Recommendations of the Task Force regarding—
(A)
how claims processors of the Department of Veterans Affairs should evaluate evidence that links such conditions to active military, naval, air, or space service; and
(B)
best practices regarding the evaluation of neurological injuries in examinations for benefits under chapters 11 or 15 of title 38, United States Code.
(d)
Sunset
The Task Force shall terminate on September 30, 2029.
