1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Boosting Lifesaving Operations, Opening Donation Centers Act
or the
BLOOD Centers Act
.
2.
Expedited process for approval of certain BLA supplements for blood centers
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting pursuant to section 351(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 262(a)(2)
), shall establish an expedited process for the approval of a supplemental application submitted by the owner or operator of a blood center seeking to add an apheresis collection device to an existing BLA license at a location not previously licensed for such a device.
(b)
Deadline
Under the expedited procedure, the Secretary shall approve a supplemental application described in subsection (a) not later than 30 days after the date of submission of the application unless the Secretary makes a showing that there is—
(1)
a specific concern for the safety, purity, or potency of products produced at the specific location subject to the supplemental application; or
(2)
a systemic failure by the owner or operator to meet standards designed to ensure the continued safety, purity, and potency of products produced at other locations under a biologics license.
(c)
Applicability
The expedited procedure shall apply with respect to a supplemental application described in subsection (a) if the owner or operator that submits the application—
(1)
holds a biologics license for at least one blood center site; and
(2)
(A)
has been approved for a biologics license at 3 or more Food and Drug Administration registered locations under the biologics license referred to in paragraph (1); or
(B)
is accredited and in good standing for blood collection by an accreditation organization with standards that meet or exceed, as determined by the Secretary, all applicable regulatory requirements for blood collections.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
BLA
The term
BLA
means a biologics license application.
(2)
Blood center
The term
blood center
means a human blood donation center.
(3)
Expedited procedure
The term
expedited procedure
means the expedited procedure to be established under subsection (a).
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
