1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Camden National Battlefield Park Study Act
.
2.
Camden Battlefield area study
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(2)
Study area
The term
Study Area
means the following affiliated areas of the National Park System:
(A)
The site of the Battle of Camden fought in South Carolina on August 16, 1780, and any other resources in the area that relate to the Revolutionary War.
(B)
Historic Camden, South Carolina.
(b)
Study required
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall conduct a special resource study of the Study Area—
(A)
to evaluate the national significance of the Study Area;
(B)
to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the Study Area as a unit of the National Park System, to be known as
Camden National Battlefield Park
;
(C)
to determine the methods and means for the protection and interpretation of the Study Area by the National Park Service, other entities of the Federal Government or State or local government, or private or nonprofit organizations;
(D)
to determine the viability of a local partnership model for the management of the Study Area and the transferability of existing management structures; and
(E)
to identify cost estimates for any Federal development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance of the Study Area.
(2)
Consultation
In conducting the study under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with interested Federal agencies, State and local government entities, private and nonprofit organizations, and any other interested individuals.
(c)
Applicable law
The study required under subsection (b) shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States Code.
(d)
Report
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to carry out the study required under subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report containing—
(1)
the results of the study; and
(2)
any recommendations of the Secretary.
