1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No CDLs for Illegals Act
.
2.
Commercial driver’s license requirements
(a)
In general
Section 31308 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A) by striking
and
at the end; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
present valid documentation proving citizenship status, lawful permanent resident status, or a valid work authorization; and
(D)
present valid documentation of domicile in the State in which the commercial driver’s license is issued;
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3) by striking
and
at the end;
(3)
in paragraph (4)(E) by striking the period and inserting a semicolon; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
prohibit a State from issuing a commercial driver’s license to an individual who is not domiciled in such State; and
(6)
require States to use the SAVE system for any non-citizen applicant for a commercial driver’s license and deny any applicant if the SAVE system does not confirm lawful presence of such applicant.
.
(b)
Penalties
(1)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
155.
Suspension of funds for licensing unauthorized commercial drivers
(a)
Suspension
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Transportation shall suspend a State’s apportionment of funds under section 104(b) if the Secretary determines that the State has issued commercial driver’s licenses in contravention of section 31308(6) of title 49.
(b)
Determination
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall, on an annual basis, review the commercial driver’s licensing policies and practices of each State to determine compliance with this section.
(2)
Information
The Secretary may request any information necessary from a State to make such a determination.
(c)
Reinstatement
Funds suspended under subsection (a) shall be reinstated to a State when the Secretary certifies that the State has taken all necessary measures to comply with section 31308(6) of title 49.
(d)
Applicability
This section shall apply to any State that receives funds under section 104(b).
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 1
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 154
the following:
155. Suspension of funds for licensing unauthorized commercial drivers.
.
(3)
Rulemaking
The Secretary of Transportation shall issue such regulations as are necessary to set fines for trucking companies that knowingly employ drivers that do not hold a valid commercial driver’s license that complies with section 31308 of title 49, United States Code.
