1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Aid for Illegal Entry Act
.
2.
Prohibition of Federal funds for certain immigration-related services
(a)
Prohibition on use of funds
(1)
Non-Governmental Organizations
No Federal funds may be awarded, granted, or otherwise made available to any non-governmental organization to—
(A)
provide legal services related to immigration proceedings;
(B)
house, shelter, or otherwise provide accommodations to any an alien who is present in the United States without lawful status under the immigration laws; or
(C)
transport any individual who entered the United States in violation of the immigration laws.
(2)
Exception
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply to a non-governmental organization who uses the Federal funds to provide legal services, housing, or transportation to a minor.
(3)
Department of Interior
The Department of the Interior, including all bureaus, offices, and agencies under its authority, may not administer, manage, or enter into a contract or agreement relating to—
(A)
the provision of services described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (1); or
(B)
migrant resettlement, immigration enforcement, or immigration legal representation.
(b)
Enforcement
The head of each Government agency shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to ensure that a non-governmental organization awarded, granted, or otherwise receiving Federal funds is in compliance with the prohibition under subsection (a)(1).
(c)
Effective date
This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment and shall apply to any grant, award, contract, or funding agreement entered into on or after such date.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Government agency
The term
government agency
means a subdivision of the executive, legislative, judicial, or other branch of government, including a department, independent establishment, commission, administration, authority, board, and bureau, and a corporation or other legal entity established, and subject to control, by a government or governments for the execution of a governmental or intergovernmental program.
(2)
Immigration laws
The term
immigration laws
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
(3)
Legal services related to immigration proceedings
The term
legal services related to immigration proceedings
includes representation in, advice with respect to, or preparation of documents for any immigration application, petition, removal proceeding, or related process.
(4)
Minor
The term
minor
means an alien under the age of 18.
(5)
Non-governmental organization
The term
non-governmental organization
means any entity that is not a Federal, State, Tribal, or local government agency.
