1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Student Visas for Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025
.
2.
Limitation on availability of F-visas and M-visas for institutions in sanctuary jurisdictions
Section 214(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1184(m)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, for each fiscal year, identify sanctuary jurisdictions for purposes of this paragraph.
(B)
In the case of an alien who seeks a visa under or to be accorded status as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(F) to pursue a course of study at an established college, university, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution or in an accredited language training program in the United States, if such college, university, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution or accredited language training program is located in a sanctuary jurisdiction, such visa may not be issued nor may such status be accorded.
(C)
In the case of an alien who seeks a visa under or to be accorded status as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(M) to pursue a full course of study at an established vocational or other recognized nonacademic institution (other than in a language training program) in the United States, if such vocational or other recognized nonacademic institution is located in a sanctuary jurisdiction, such visa may not be issued nor may such status be accorded.
(D)
The prohibition under subparagraphs (B) and (C) do not apply for a fiscal year in the case of a State or unit of local government identified as a sanctuary jurisdiction if the Secretary of Homeland Security thereafter determines that such State or unit of local government is no longer a sanctuary jurisdiction and submits a report to Congress to that effect.
(E)
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
sanctuary jurisdiction
means any State or unit of local government that has laws, ordinances, regulations, resolutions, policies, or other practices that obstruct immigration enforcement and shield criminals from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, including by—
(i)
refusing to or prohibiting agencies from complying with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainers;
(ii)
imposing unreasonable conditions on U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainer compliance;
(iii)
denying U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement access to interview incarcerated aliens; or
(iv)
otherwise impeding communication or information exchanges between the jurisdiction’s personnel and Federal immigration officers.
.
