1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fuel Emissions Freedom Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Fuel emissions regulations increase costs for consumers and manufacturers.
(2)
Overlapping and ever-changing fuel emissions standards, whether imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency, the State of California, or through Corporate Average Fuel Economy regulations, create long-term uncertainty for manufacturers.
(3)
This fragmented regulatory environment stifles innovation, disrupts supply chains, and burdens manufacturers and businesses, especially small and medium-sized auto suppliers.
(4)
Conflicting fuel emissions standards force manufacturers to comply with multiple sets of costly and inconsistent regulations, further reducing efficiency and raising production costs, which are ultimately passed onto the consumer.
(5)
Eliminating fuel emissions standards at the Federal and State level will help restore regulatory certainty, lower costs for families, and strengthen manufacturing in the United States to ensure economic freedom.
3.
Repeal and preemption of certain emission standards
(a)
Motor vehicle emission and fuel standards under Clean Air Act
(1)
Repeal of standards
Section 202 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7521
) is repealed.
(2)
Preemption of State standards
Section 209 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7543
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
subject to this part
;
(B)
by striking subsection (b);
(C)
in subsection (c), by striking
The preceding sentence shall not apply in the case of a State with respect to which a waiver is in effect under subsection (b).
;
(D)
in subsection (e), by striking
Subsection (b) shall not apply for purposes of this paragraph
and all that follows through
The Administrator shall issue
and inserting the following:
(2)
Regulations
The Administrator shall issue
; and
(E)
by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively.
(b)
Automobile fuel economy
(1)
Repeal of standards
Sections 32902 through 32918 of title 49, United States Code, are repealed.
(2)
Preemption of State standards
Section 32919 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
by striking
(a)
General.
—When an average fuel economy standard prescribed under this chapter is in effect, a State
and inserting
A State
; and
(ii)
by striking
covered by an average fuel economy standard under this chapter
; and
(B)
by striking subsections (b) and (c).
(3)
Table of sections amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 329
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking the items relating to sections 32902 through 32918.
(c)
Nullification of standards
Any Federal regulation issued pursuant to section 202 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7543(b)
) or sections 32902 through 32918 of title 49, United States Code, or any State law, regulation, or executive order issued pursuant to section 209(b) of such Act, as each such section was in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, is hereby nullified and shall have no force or effect.
(d)
References
Any reference in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of or pertaining to a standard established under section 202 or 209(b) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7521
; 7543(b)) or section 32902 through 32918 of title 49, United States Code, is deemed void and unenforceable.
4.
Prohibition on fuel emission standards
(a)
Federal preemption
Notwithstanding any other law, the Federal Government may not establish, enforce, or maintain fuel emission standard for motor vehicles.
(b)
State prohibition
A State, or political subdivision thereof, may not enforce or maintain any fuel emission standards for motor vehicles.
(c)
Preemption of standards
Any Federal or State law, regulation, or executive order that establishes fuel emissions standards for motor vehicles is hereby nullified and shall have no force or effect.
