1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Syria Terrorism Threat Assessment Act
.
2.
Threat assessment of terrorist threats posed by individuals in Syria with an affiliation with a foreign terrorist organization or a specially designated global terrorist organization
(a)
Terrorism threat assessment
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies, shall conduct a threat assessment of terrorist threats to the United States posed by individuals in Syria with an affiliation with a foreign terrorist organization or a specially designated global terrorist organization.
(2)
Elements
The threat assessment required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An identification of the country of origin for each such individual included in such threat assessment.
(B)
A description of the foreign terrorist organization or specially designated global terrorist organization with which each such individual is affiliated.
(C)
A description of the following:
(i)
The capability of the Department of Homeland Security to identify, track, and monitor such individuals.
(ii)
Any associated challenges with such capability.
(D)
A description of any action of the Department with respect to the following:
(i)
Mitigating the terrorist threats to the United States posed by such individuals.
(ii)
Preventing such individuals from entering the United States.
(b)
Congressional notification
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—
(1)
submit to the appropriate congressional committees the threat assessment required under subsection (a); and
(2)
provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on such assessment.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(2)
Foreign terrorist organization
The term
foreign terrorist organization
means an organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
(3)
Specially designated global terrorist organization
The term
specially designated global terrorist organization
means an organization that has been designated as a specially designated global terrorist organization by the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury, as the case may be, pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
