1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting the Abused by Learning Options to Navigate Survivor Stories Act
or the
SALONS Stories Act
.
2.
Grant increases
Section 2007 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10446
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(l)
Grant increases for States that implement domestic violence prevention training in cosmetologist and barber licensing
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Domestic violence prevention training
The term
domestic violence prevention training
, with respect to training for individuals seeking licensure from a State as a cosmetologist or barber, means online or in-person training, at no cost to the individual, provided by a nonprofit anti-domestic violence organization that focuses on how to—
(i)
recognize the signs of domestic violence;
(ii)
respond to the signs of domestic violence; and
(iii)
refer a client of the individual to resources for victims of domestic violence.
(B)
Eligible State
The term
eligible State
means a State that has in effect a law that requires each individual seeking licensure from the State as a cosmetologist or barber to undergo domestic violence prevention training.
(C)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(2)
Grant increase
Subject to the availability of funds pursuant to paragraph (5), the Attorney General shall increase the amount of a grant awarded under subsection (a) to an eligible State by an amount that is not more than 10 percent of the average of the total amount of funding provided to the State under subsection (a) under the 3 most recent awards to the State.
(3)
Application
An eligible State seeking a grant increase under this subsection shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require, including information about the law of the eligible State described in paragraph (1)(B).
(4)
Grant increase term
(A)
In general
The term of a grant increase under this subsection shall be for 1 year.
(B)
Renewal
An eligible State that receives a grant increase under this subsection may submit an application for a renewal of such grant increase at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.
(C)
Limit
An eligible State may not receive a grant increase under this subsection for more than 3 years.
(5)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2032.
.
