117 SRES 743 ATS: Congratulating the Colorado Avalanche on winning the 2022 Stanley Cup Final.
U.S. Senate
2022-08-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 743
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
August 3, 2022
Mr. Hickenlooper
(for himself and
Mr. Bennet
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Colorado Avalanche on winning the 2022 Stanley Cup Final.
Whereas, on June 26, 2022, the Colorado Avalanche (referred to in this preamble as the
Avs
) won the 2022 National Hockey League (referred to in this preamble as the
NHL
) Stanley Cup Final;
Whereas the 2022 Stanley Cup Final is the third Stanley Cup Final won by the Avs in the 27 years in which the franchise has competed in the NHL;
Whereas, on the way to winning the 2022 Stanley Cup Final, the Avs defeated—
(1)
the Nashville Predators in the first round;
(2)
the St. Louis Blues in the second round;
(3)
the Edmonton Oilers is the Western Conference Finals; and
(4)
the Tampa Bay Lightning in the Stanley Cup Final;
Whereas Avs defenseman Cale Makar won the 2022 Conn Smythe Trophy, which is awarded to the most valuable player in the Stanley Cup playoffs;
Whereas, during the 2021–2022 NHL season—
(1)
Avs defenseman Cale Makar won the James Norris Memorial Trophy, which is awarded to the best defenseman during the regular season;
(2)
Avs General Manager Joe Sakic won the Jim Gregory General Manager of the Year Award;
(3)
Avs right wing Mikko Rantanen led the team in both goals scored, with 36, and total points, with 92;
(4)
Avs center Nazem Kadri led the team in total assists, with 59;
(5)
Avs defenseman Devon Toews led the team in plus/minus points, with 52; and
(6)
Avs goaltender Darcy Kuemper led the team in total wins, with 37; and
Whereas the entire Avs roster contributed to the 2022 Stanley Cup victory, including Hunter Miska, Trent Miner, Darcy Kuemper, Pavel Francouz, Justus Annunen, Devon Toews, Ryan Murray, Keaton Middleton, Roland McKeown, Josh Manson, Cale Makar, Jacob MacDonald, Kurtis MacDermid, Jack Johnson, Erik Johnson, Samuel Girard, Bowen Byram, Mikko Rantanen, Logan O’Connor, Valeri Nichushkin, Martin Kaut, Nicolas Aube-Kubel, Mikhail Maltsev, Artturi Lehkonen, Gabriel Landeskog, J.T. Compher, Andre Burakovsky, Nico Sturm, Dylan Sikura, Alex Newhook, Jayson Megna, Stefan Matteau, Nathan MacKinnon, Nazem Kadri, Darren Helm, Jean-Luc Foudy, and Andrew Cogliano: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the Colorado Avalanche (referred to in this resolution as the
Avs
) and the loyal fan base of the Avs on becoming the 2022 National Hockey League Stanley Cup champions; and
(2)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to members of the Avs' ownership, management, and coaching staff, namely—
(A)
owners Stan Kroenke, Ann Walton Kroenke, Josh Kroenke, and Kroenke Sports & Entertainment;
(B)
Executive Vice President and General Manager Joe Sakic; and
(C)
Head Coach Jared Bednar.
