117 SRES 841 ATS: Recognizing October 2022 as “National Principals Month”.
U.S. Senate
2022-11-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 841
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 17, 2022
Ms. Smith
(for herself,
Ms. Collins
,
Mr. Van Hollen
,
Ms. Hirono
,
Mr. King
,
Mr. Braun
,
Mr. Durbin
, and
Mr. Boozman
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Recognizing October 2022 as
National Principals Month
.
Whereas the National Association of Secondary School Principals, the National Association of Elementary School Principals, and the American Federation of School Administrators have declared October 2022 to be
National Principals Month
;
Whereas principals are educational visionaries, instructional and assessment leaders, disciplinarians, community builders, budget analysts, facilities managers, and administrators of legal and contractual obligations;
Whereas principals work collaboratively with teachers and parents to develop and implement clear missions, high curriculum standards, and performance goals;
Whereas principals create school environments that facilitate great teaching and learning and continuous school improvement;
Whereas principals demonstrated leadership and played important roles in meeting the needs of students, families, and communities during the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19) pandemic;
Whereas the vision, actions, and dedication of principals provide the mobilizing force behind any school improvement effort; and
Whereas the celebration of National Principals Month would honor elementary school, middle school, and high school principals and recognize the importance of principals in ensuring that every child has access to a high-quality education: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes October 2022 as
National Principals Month
;
(2)
honors the contributions of principals in elementary schools, middle schools, and high schools in the United States; and
(3)
supports the goals and ideals of National Principals Month.
