117 SRES 696 IS: Recognizing the American people’s commitment to rebuilding Ukraine.
U.S. Senate
2022-06-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 696
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 23, 2022
Mr. Manchin
(for himself,
Ms. Murkowski
,
Ms. Hassan
,
Mr. Blumenthal
,
Mr. Portman
, and
Ms. Duckworth
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the American people’s commitment to rebuilding Ukraine.
Whereas Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has generated massive levels of human and economic suffering in the sovereign nation of Ukraine;
Whereas, according to the United Nations Human Rights Council, Putin's war has caused more than 7,000,000 civilians to flee from Ukraine since February 24, 2022;
Whereas, according to the World Bank, Putin's war will cause Ukraine’s economy to shrink by 45.1 percent during 2022;
Whereas, according to the World Bank, Putin’s war in Ukraine has created almost $60,000,000,000 worth of damage to buildings and infrastructure; and
Whereas Ukrainian civilians are being killed every day and the true number of Ukrainian civilian casualties might never be known: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes that the United States—
(A)
has long sought to alleviate the suffering of civilians and nations hurt by war; and
(B)
remains committed to ensuring the long-term peace, prosperity, and territorial integrity of Ukraine;
(2)
recognizes that aid packages, such as the Marshall Plan—
(A)
helped Western Europe recover from the economic damage and human suffering generated by World War II; and
(B)
did much to promote the stability of global good order nations enjoy today;
(3)
recognizes that an effective Ukrainian reconstruction effort can only be accomplished by working in concert with other nations and international bodies; and
(4)
encourages the United States Government to lead an international group of allies that will equitably contribute to provide the Government of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people with a reconstruction assistance package for the purpose of increasing ties between nations that are seeking a stable international order to counter malign and rogue actors.
