117 SRES 426 IS: Expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States Postal Service should issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring Ralph Samuelson, known as the Father of Waterskiing, to commemorate the upcoming 100-year anniversary of the invention of waterskiing.
U.S. Senate
2021-10-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 426
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 21, 2021
Ms. Klobuchar
(for herself and
Ms. Smith
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States Postal Service should issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring Ralph Samuelson, known as the Father of Waterskiing, to commemorate the upcoming 100-year anniversary of the invention of waterskiing.
Whereas Ralph Samuelson invented waterskiing on Lake Pepin in Lake City, Minnesota;
Whereas the 100th anniversary of this historic event is July 2, 2022;
Whereas, as documented in letters of support from the USA Water Ski & Wake Sports Foundation, Ralph Samuelson was the first person to successfully water-ski;
Whereas this momentous event happened on July 2, 1922, on Lake Pepin in Lake City, Minnesota, the hometown of Ralph Samuelson;
Whereas Lake Pepin is a picturesque 30-mile-long, 3-mile-wide section of the Mississippi River that is 60 miles southeast of the Twin Cities;
Whereas a Sports Illustrated article dated August 10, 1987, also credited Mr. Samuelson as
The Father of Waterskiing
and described him as a thrill-seeker who spent much of his time on Lake Pepin; and
Whereas waterskiing is a hugely popular sport enjoyed by millions worldwide and those millions of people have Ralph Samuelson to thank: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the United States Postal Service should issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring Ralph Samuelson, known as the Father of Waterskiing, to commemorate the upcoming 100-year anniversary of the invention of waterskiing; and
(2)
the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee should recommend to the Postmaster General that such a stamp be issued.
