117 SRES 539 ATS: Directing the Architect of the Capitol to obtain and place a memorial plaque for United States Capitol Police Officer William F. Evans at the north security kiosk of the Capitol.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 539
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 8 (legislative day, March 7), 2022
Ms. Klobuchar
(for herself and
Mr. Blunt
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Directing the Architect of the Capitol to obtain and place a memorial plaque for United States Capitol Police Officer William F. Evans at the north security kiosk of the Capitol.
Whereas William
Billy
F. Evans was born on February 18, 1980 in North Adams, Massachusetts;
Whereas Officer Billy Evans joined the United States Capitol Police on March 7, 2003 and served with distinction in the Capitol Division in the First Responder Unit;
Whereas Officer Billy Evans was protecting the United States Capitol on April 2, 2021 when he was run over by a driver, who hit Officer Evans and another officer;
Whereas Officer Billy Evans died on April 2, 2021 in the heroic performance of his duties as a United States Capitol Police Officer while protecting the Capitol and the Members and staff of, and visitors to, Congress; and
Whereas Officer Billy Evans lay in honor in the rotunda of the Capitol on April 13, 2021: Now, therefore, be it
1.
Memorial plaque for United States Capitol Police Officer William F. Evans
(a)
North security kiosk plaque
By not later than April 2, 2022, the Architect of the Capitol shall obtain a memorial plaque for Officer William
Billy
F. Evans and place the plaque at the north security kiosk of the United States Capitol, near the intersection of Delaware Avenue NE and Constitution Avenue NE.
(b)
Rules committee approval
Before the Architect of the Capitol may obtain a plaque under subsection (a), the Architect of the Capitol shall submit the plans for the plaque, including the design and text of the plaque, to the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate for approval by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee, acting jointly.
