119 HJ 136 IH: Amending title 36, United States Code, to direct the President to issue an annual proclamation establishing Democracy Day.
U.S. House of Representatives
2026-01-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
119th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. J. RES. 136
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 6, 2026
Mr. Crow
(for himself,
Mr. Goldman of New York
,
Ms. Goodlander
,
Mr. Bell
,
Mr. Quigley
,
Mr. Moulton
,
Mr. Costa
,
Mrs. Torres of California
,
Ms. Garcia of Texas
,
Mr. Gottheimer
,
Ms. Stevens
, and
Ms. Titus
) submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
JOINT RESOLUTION
Amending title 36, United States Code, to direct the President to issue an annual proclamation establishing Democracy Day.
Whereas, on January 6, 2021, insurrectionists carried out a violent attack against the United States Capitol in a failed attempt to disrupt and harm lawmakers certifying the outcome of the 2020 Presidential election;
Whereas the assault on the United States Capitol resulted in multiple deaths and physical harm to over 140 members of law enforcement;
Whereas the tremendous bravery displayed by law enforcement officers helped ensure the successful and democratic transition of presidential power;
Whereas the transition of presidential power has remained an unbroken tradition for more than 220 years and is a hallmark of American democracy;
Whereas democracy is fragile and requires eternal vigilance to maintain it; and
Whereas January 6 would be an appropriate day to designate as Democracy Day: Now, therefore, be it
That
chapter 1
of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section (and conforming the table of contents for such chapter accordingly):
149.
Democracy Day
The President shall issue each year a proclamation—
(1)
designating a day as Democracy Day;
(2)
calling on State and local governments and the people of the United States to observe Democracy Day with appropriate programs and activities; and
(3)
urging civil and educational authorities of States, counties, cities, and towns to observe Democracy Day through appropriate programs and activities.
.
