1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Natural Gas Export Promotion Act of 2014
.
2.
Applications to export natural gas
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Energy (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
) shall issue a final decision on any application for authorization to export natural gas under
section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) that is pending on or
filed on or after the
date of enactment of this Act not later than 45 days after conclusion of
the review required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
(b)
Judicial review
(1)
In general
Except for review in the Supreme Court, the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which
the export facility will be located
pursuant to an application described in subsection (a) shall have original
and exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of—
(A)
an order issued by the Secretary with respect to the application; or
(B)
the failure of the Secretary to issue a decision on the application.
(2)
Order
If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds that the Secretary has
failed to issue a decision on the application as required under subsection
(a), the Court shall order the Secretary to issue the decision
not later than 30 days after the order of the Court.
(3)
Expedited consideration
The Court shall—
(A)
set any civil action brought under this subsection for expedited consideration; and
(B)
set the matter on the docket as soon as practicable after the filing
date of the initial pleading.
3.
Public disclosure of export destinations
Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Public disclosure of liquefied natural gas export destinations
(1)
In general
In the case of any authorization to export liquefied natural gas, the Secretary of Energy shall
require the applicant to report to the Secretary of Energy the names of
the one or more countries of destination to which the exported liquefied
natural gas is delivered.
(2)
Timing
The applicant shall file the report required under paragraph (1) not later than—
(A)
in the case of the first export, the last day of the month following the month of the first
export; and
(B)
in the case of subsequent exports, the date that is 30 days after the last day of the applicable
month concerning the activity of the previous month.
(3)
Disclosure
The Secretary of Energy shall publish the information reported under this subsection on the website
of the Department of Energy and otherwise make the information available
to the public.
.
