113 SRES 508 ATS: Commemorating the centennial anniversary of the establishment of the Congressional Research Service.
U.S. Senate
2014-07-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 508
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 17, 2014
Mr. Cardin
(for himself and
Mr. Schumer
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Commemorating the centennial anniversary of the establishment of the Congressional Research
Service.
Whereas, in 1914, Congress recognized the need for greater assistance and established a reference
unit within the Library of
Congress to support an informed and independent legislature;
Whereas the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 (
2 U.S.C. 28 et seq.
) transformed the
Legislative Reference Service into the Congressional Research Service,
expanding its size and analytic capacity;
Whereas the Congressional Research Service is housed within the Library of Congress and benefits
from the unparalleled collections of the Library of Congress to complete
research and analysis and to disseminate information and materials to
assist Congress;
Whereas Congressional Research Service products are the result of collaboration between a diverse
workforce consisting of analysts, attorneys, information professionals,
and support staff;
Whereas the Congressional Research Service strives to provide accurate and objective assistance to
all members and committees at all stages of the legislative process, and
in a timely, confidential, and non-partisan manner; and
Whereas the Congressional Research Service provides Congress with analysis and information on
legislative and oversight issues in reports, memoranda, seminars, and
briefings: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the centennial anniversary of the establishment of the Congressional Research Service
and commends the employees of the
Congressional Research Service for their service to Congress and the
people of the United States; and
(2)
respectfully requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution
to—
(A)
the Librarian of Congress; and
(B)
the Director of the Congressional Research Service.
