113 SRES 360 ATS: To authorize testimony and representation in United States v. Onstad.
U.S. Senate
2014-02-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 360
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
February 24, 2014
Mr. Reid
(for himself and
Mr. McConnell
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
To authorize testimony and representation in
United States v. Onstad
.
Whereas, in the case of
United States v. Onstad
, Crim. No. 13–65, pending in the United States District Court for the District of Montana, the
prosecution has requested the production of testimony from Tom Lopach,
Chief of Staff for United States Senator Jon Tester;
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and 704(a)(2) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 2
U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and 288c(a)(2), the Senate may direct its counsel to
represent current and former employees of the Senate with respect to any
subpoena, order, or request for testimony relating to their official
responsibilities;
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of the United States and Rule XI of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, no evidence under the control or in the possession of the
Senate may, by the judicial or administrative process, be taken from such
control or possession but by permission of the Senate; and
Whereas, when it appears that evidence under the control or in the possession of the Senate may
promote the administration of justice, the Senate will take such action as
will promote the ends of justice consistent with the privileges of the
Senate: Now, therefore, be it
That Tom Lopach, Chief of Staff for United States Senator Jon Tester, and any other current or
former employee of the Senator’s office from whom relevant testimony may
be sought, are authorized to testify in the case of
United States v. Onstad
, except concerning matters for which a privilege should be asserted.
2.
The Senate Legal Counsel is authorized to represent current and former employees of Senator
Tester’s office in connection with the production of testimony authorized
in section one of this resolution.
