113 SRES 257 ATS: Designating October 3, 2013, as “Jumpstart's Read for the Record Day”.
U.S. Senate
2013-09-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 257
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 25 (legislative day, September 24), 2013
Mrs. Murray
(for herself,
Mr. Isakson
,
Mr. Cochran
,
Mr. Begich
,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mr. Durbin
,
Ms. Landrieu
, and
Mr. Bennet
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating October 3, 2013, as
Jumpstart's Read for the Record Day
.
Whereas Jumpstart, a national early education
organization, is working to ensure that every child in the United States can
enter kindergarten prepared to succeed;
Whereas Jumpstart recruits and trains college students and
community volunteers year-round to deliver a high-quality early education
curriculum to preschool children in low-income neighborhoods, helping preschool
children develop the key language and literacy skills they need in order to
succeed in school and in life;
Whereas, since 1993, Jumpstart has engaged nearly 28,000
adults in service to more than 50,000 young children in communities across the
United States;
Whereas Jumpstart’s Read for the Record, presented in
partnership with the Pearson Foundation, is a national campaign that culminates
in 1 day out of the year when millions of people in the United States come
together to celebrate literacy and support Jumpstart in its efforts to promote
early childhood education;
Whereas the goals of Jumpstart's Read for the Record
are—
(1)
to raise
awareness of the importance of early childhood education in the United
States;
(2)
to support the
mission of Jumpstart, as well as early education programs established by
Jumpstart in preschools in low-income neighborhoods; and
(3)
to celebrate the
commencement of Jumpstart’s program year;
Whereas October 3, 2013, would be an appropriate date to
designate as “Jumpstart’s Read for the Record Day” because it is the date on
which Jumpstart aims to set the world record for the largest shared reading
experience; and
Whereas Jumpstart hopes to engage more than 2,385,305
adults and children in reading “Otis”, by Loren Long, during a record-breaking
celebration of reading and service, in support of preschool children in the
United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates
October 3, 2013, as
Jumpstart's Read for the Record Day
;
(2)
commends
Jumpstart’s Read for the Record on its 8th year;
(3)
encourages
adults, including grandparents, parents, teachers, and college students, to
join children in creating the world’s largest shared reading experience and to
show their support for early literacy and Jumpstart’s early education
programming for young children in low-income communities; and
(4)
respectfully
requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit a copy of this resolution to
Jumpstart, one of the leading nonprofit organizations in the United States in
the field of early childhood education.
