113 SRES 25 ATS: Honoring Gonzaga University on its 125th anniversary.
U.S. Senate
2013-01-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 25
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 31, 2013
Ms. Cantwell
(for
Mrs. Murray
(for herself and
Ms. Cantwell
)) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Honoring Gonzaga University on its 125th
anniversary.
Whereas, in 1881, at the request of the citizens of the
City of Spokane Falls, Washington, Father Joseph Cataldo, S.J., a Jesuit from
the Rocky Mountain Mission, committed to establishing a school along the banks
of the Spokane River;
Whereas, on September 17, 1887, Gonzaga College officially
opened its doors with an inaugural class of 18 students;
Whereas Gonzaga College, known today as Gonzaga
University, has grown into a nationally recognized 4-year liberal arts
university, where nearly 8,000 students can choose from more than 75 fields of
study, select from 25 master's degree programs, and pursue doctoral degrees in
law and leadership studies;
Whereas Gonzaga University is repeatedly listed as one of
the best comprehensive regional universities in the western United States, is
ranked second in the United States among small universities for alumni serving
in the Peace Corps, and consistently earns a place on the President’s Higher
Education and Community Service Honor Roll;
Whereas Gonzaga University invests more than $60,000,000
annually in scholarships and in financial assistance to its students;
and
Whereas notable Gonzaga alumni include a former Speaker of
the United States House of Representatives, a Governor of the State of
Washington and the first female Attorney General of the State of Washington,
the current Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives, judges of
the United States district courts, and members of the Washington State Supreme
Court: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
honors Gonzaga
University on its 125th anniversary;
(2)
celebrates the
commitment of Gonzaga University to its students and to educating the whole
individual, including the mind, body, and spirit;
(3)
applauds Gonzaga
University for its dedication to instilling the importance of service to others
and civic engagement; and
(4)
congratulates the
students, staff, faculty, alumni, and supporters of Gonzaga University for
their many contributions in the United States and abroad.
