113 SRES 78 IS: Supporting the goals and ideals of Professional Social Work Month and World Social Work Day.
U.S. Senate
2013-03-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 78
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 18, 2013
Ms. Stabenow
(for
herself,
Mr. Begich
,
Ms. Mikulski
,
Mr. Coons
, and
Mr. Johnson
of South Dakota
) submitted the following resolution; which was
referred to the
Committee on the
Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of
Professional Social Work Month and World Social Work Day.
Whereas the social work profession has been instrumental
in achieving advances in civil and human rights in the United States and across
the world for more than a century;
Whereas the primary mission of social work is to enhance
human well-being and help meet the basic needs of all people, especially the
people who are most vulnerable;
Whereas the programs and services provided by professional
social workers are essential elements of the social safety net in the United
States;
Whereas social workers have a critical impact on
adolescent and youth development, aging and family caregiving, child protection
and family services, health care navigation, mental and behavioral health
treatment, assistance to members and veterans of the Armed Forces, nonprofit
management and community development, and poverty reduction;
Whereas social workers function as specialists,
consultants, private practitioners, educators, community leaders, policymakers,
and researchers;
Whereas social workers influence many different
organizations and human service systems and are employed in a wide range of
workplaces, including private and public agencies, hospices and hospitals,
schools, clinics, businesses and corporations, military units, elected offices,
think tanks, and foundations;
Whereas social workers seek to improve social functioning
and social conditions for people in emotional, psychological, economic, or
physical need;
Whereas social workers are experts in care coordination,
case management, and therapeutic treatment for biopsychosocial issues;
Whereas social workers have roles in more than 50
different fields of practice;
Whereas social workers believe that the strength of a
country depends on the ability of the majority of the people to lead productive
and healthy lives;
Whereas social workers help people, who are often
navigating major life challenges, find hope and new options for achieving their
maximum potential; and
Whereas social workers identify and address gaps in social
systems that impede full participation by individuals or groups in society:
Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the
goals and ideals of Professional Social Work Month and World Social Work
Day;
(2)
acknowledges the
diligent efforts of individuals and groups who promote the importance of social
work and observe Professional Social Work Month and World Social Work
Day;
(3)
encourages the
people of the United States to engage in appropriate ceremonies and activities
to promote further awareness of the life-changing role that social workers
play; and
(4)
recognizes with
gratitude the contributions of the millions of caring individuals who have
chosen to serve their communities through social work.
