113 SRES 598 ATS: Expressing condolences to the family of Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig and condemning the terrorist acts of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
U.S. Senate
2014-12-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 598
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 10, 2014
Mr. Donnelly
(for himself and
Mr. Coats
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Expressing condolences to the family of Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig and condemning the terrorist acts
of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
Whereas Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig was a tireless humanitarian who devoted his life to helping those
most in need;
Whereas Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig saved lives across Lebanon, Turkey, and Syria, particularly
through the nongovernmental organization he founded, Special Emergency
Response and Assistance;
Whereas Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig represented the best qualities of humanity through his work
administering medical aid, food and shelter to the people most impacted by
the war in Syria;
Whereas Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig served with honor as a United States Army Ranger;
Whereas the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (referred to in this preamble as
ISIL
) is a terrorist organization that has committed widespread acts of violence against innocent
civilians throughout Iraq and Syria, forcing many people to flee their
homeland;
Whereas ISIL has carried out grave atrocities targeting Muslims and religious and ethnic minorities
in the region, including women and children, for enslavement, torture, and
massacre;
Whereas ISIL has captured and assassinated journalists and humanitarian and health workers,
deepening the suffering of a war-torn region;
Whereas ISIL is responsible for the murder of United States citizens;
and
Whereas ISIL continues to hold hostages in contravention of international law: Now, therefore, be
it
1.
Sense of the Senate
The Senate—
(1)
mourns the death of Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig;
(2)
expresses condolences to the family and loved ones of Abdul-Rahman Peter Kassig;
(3)
condemns the terrorist acts by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (referred to in this
resolution as
ISIL
), including the targeting of innocent civilians, journalists, and aid workers; and
(4)
urges the United States and the international community, working in partnership with the
governments and citizens of the Middle East, to address the threat posed
by ISIL and the suffering of innocent civilians impacted by the conflict.
2.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this resolution is a declaration of war or authorization to use force.
