Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the policies and actions in   of   and   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of   and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

Section 1. I hereby order blocked all property and interests in property of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of persons located within  . For purposes of this  ,   is defined to include its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, including   and the Caja de Ahorros.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in regulations which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this Order:

(a) Any direct or indirect payments or transfers from   to the  /Solis regime of funds, including currency, cash or coins of any nation, or of other financial or investment assets or credits are prohibited. All transfers, or payments owed, to   shall be made into an account at  , to be held for the benefit of the   people. For purposes of this  , the term "Noriega/ Solis regime" shall mean  ,  , and any agencies, instrumentalities or entities purporting to act on their behalf or under their asserted authority.

(b) Any direct or indirect payments or transfers to the  /Solis regime of funds, including currency, cash or coins of any nation, or of other financial or investment assets or credits, by any   person located in the territory of  , or by any person organized under the laws of   and owned or controlled by a   person, are prohibited. All transfers, or payments owed, to   by such persons shall be made into an account at  , to the held for the benefit of the   people. For purposes of Section 2(b), "  person" is defined to mean any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of  , or any person in  .

 . 3. Sections 1 and 2 shall not be deemed to block property or interests in property of  , including, but not limited to, accounts established at   of   as described in section 2, with respect to which transactions are authorized by, or on behalf of, the recognized representative of   as certified by the Secretary of  , or are otherwise authorized in regulations which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this Order. Section 2 shall not be deemed to prohibit interbank clearing payments.

 . 4. The measures taken pursuant to this   are intended to extend the effectiveness of actions initiated in cooperation with   and its President,  , and are not intended to block private   assets subject to the jurisdiction of   or to prohibit remittances by   persons to   persons other than the  /Solis regime.

 . 5. This   shall take effect at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on  , except as otherwise provided in regulations issued pursuant to this  .

 . 6. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this  . The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers or agencies of  .

 . 7. Nothing contained in this   shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies or its officers, or   of New York or its officers.

This Order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:04 p.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was printed in  " of  .
