Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.) as amended, Section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and Section 503 (a) (2) (A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), and as President of  , in order to modify, as provided by   (a) and (c) of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2464(a) and (c)), the limitations on peferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, to adjust the original designation of eligible articles taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of Sections 503(a) and 131-134 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ; 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.) and to modify the designations of beneficiary developing countries in accord with my notification to  , and in accord with technical changes in the identification of certain beneficiary developing countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex II attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c) (iii) of the  , is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex III, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General  ) (iii) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is amended by substituting therefor the General Headnote 3(c) (iii) set forth in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Proclamation 4707 of  , and   Proclamation 4768 of  , are amended by Annex V to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 6. General  ) (i) of the   is modified as provided in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 7. In order to provide special treatment for the least developed developing countries ( 's) with regard to   items 387.25 and 387.35,   of  , is amended by   to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 8. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty inserted in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I or VII of this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 9.   and IV of Proclamation 4707 of  , and   Proclamation 4768 of  , are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 10. The amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on and after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:43 a.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in    .
