Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to aid the   in their fight against the epidemic of drunk driving on the  's roads, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment, There is hereby established  . The   shall be composed of no more than 26 members appointed by the President. In addition, the Majority Leader of the   and the Speaker of   are invited to designate two Members of each   to participate. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall undertake to:

(a) heighten public awareness of the seriousness of the drunk driving problem;

(b) persuade   and communities to attack the drunk driving problem in a more organized and systematic manner, including plans to eliminate bottlenecks in the arrest, trial and sentencing process that impair the effectiveness of many drunk driving laws;

(c) encourage   and local officials and organizations to accept and use the latest techniques and methods to solve the problem; and

(d) generate public support for increased enforcement of   and local drunk driving laws.

 . 3. Administration.

(a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information on drunk driving and highway safety issues and such other support as it may request for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall receive no compensation for their work on the  . However, the Secretary of   may allow members to be reimbursed for travel expenses while engaged in the work of the  , including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c)   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4.  .

(a) The   is authorized to conduct public meetings and utilize such other procedures as it may deem necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) The   shall terminate   from this date.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:27 p.m.,  ]
