Executive Order  —Implementing  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   of 1988 (Public Law 100-449, 102 Stat.  ) ("FTA Implementation Act"), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Publication of Proposed Rules Regarding Technical Standards.

(a) In accordance with  ) and 607 of   ("Free-Trade Agreement"), each agency subject to the provisions of the Administration Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. section 551 et seq.) shall, in applying section 553 of Title 5 of the United States Code with respect to any proposed   standards-related measures or product approval procedures, publish or serve notice of such measures or procedures not   before the comment due date, except where, in urgent circumstances, delay would frustrate the achievement of a legitimate domestic objective.

(b) For purposes of this section:

(1) "legitimate domestic objective" means an objective whose purpose is to protect health, safety, essential security, the environment, or consumer interests;

(2) "product approval" means a   declaration that a set of published criteria has been fulfilled and therefore that goods are permitted to be used in a specific manner or for a specific purpose;

(3) "standards" and "certification systems" shall be defined in accordance with the definitions for those terms set out in section 451 of the Trade Act of  , 19 U.S.C. section 2571; and

(4) "standards-related measures" include technical specifications, technical regulations, standards and rules for certification systems that apply to goods, and processes and production methods.

(c) This section shall not apply with respect to any proposed rules related to agricultural, food, beverage, and certain related goods as defined in Chapter Seven (Agriculture) of  .

 . 2. Establishment of   Secretariat. Pursuant to subsection 405(e) of the FTA Implementation Act, a "United States Secretariat" shall be established within  . The Secretariat shall facilitate:

(1) the operation of   and 19 of  , and

(2) the work of the binational panels and extraordinary challenge committees convened under those Chapters.

 . 3. Acceptance by the President of  . In accordance with subsection 401(c) of the FTA Implementation Act, in the event that the provisions of subparagraph 516A(g)(7)(B) of the Tariff Act of  , as amended, 19 U.S.C. section 1516a(g)(7)(B), take effect, I accept, as a whole, all decisions of binational panels and extraordinary challenge committees.

 . 4.  , This   does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 . 5.  . This   shall take effect upon the entry into force of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:34 a.m.,  ]
