Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in the pursuance of assuring and coordinating a broader range of opportunities for research in microgravity conditions, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter, "the Board").

(b) The Board shall be composed of the following members, or their designees:

(1) the Administrator of  , who shall serve as Chairman;

(2) the Secretary of  ;

(3) the Secretary of  ;

(4) the Secretary of  ;

(5) the Secretary of  ;

(6) the Secretary of  ;

(7) the Secretary of  ;

(8) the Director of  ; and

(9) the Secretary or Director of other agencies, and officials of   of the President, as the President may from time to time designate.

(c) The Board shall report to the President through   as necessary.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   will consult with academia and private industry and other Federal agencies as appropriate in carrying out its functions.

(b) In furtherance of its responsibilities, the   shall:

(1) stimulate research in microgravity environments and the application thereof to commercial uses;

(2) advise Federal agencies on microgravity research priorities and opportunities;

(3) develop policy recommendations relating to the conduct and nature of microgravity research, including types of research; government, industry, and academic cooperation; and increased access to space, including a potential launch voucher program for microgravity research purposes; and

(4) provide advice on coordinating the microgravity programs of Federal agencies by:

(i) reviewing agency plans for microgravity research and recommending priorities for the use of federally owned or leased space on microgravity facilities;

(ii) ensuring that agencies establish merit review processes for evaluating microgravity research proposals;

(iii) promoting transfer of federally funded microgravity research in furtherance of Executive Order No.  ; and

(iv) providing oversight of Federal agency participation in international microgravity research programs.

(c) The Board shall meet as requested by the President, the Chairman, or the membership.

 . 3.  . Unless extended by the President, the   shall terminate   after the date of this  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:56 a.m.,  ]
