Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to enhance the security of   by assuring the legality of activities of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby established within  ,   of the President, the President's  , which shall be composed of three members. One member, appointed from among the membership of the President's  , shall be designated by the President as Chairman. Members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President and shall be appointed by the President from among trustworthy and distinguished citizens outside the Government who are qualified on the basis of achievement, experience and independence. The   shall utilize such full-time staff and consultants as authorized by the President.

 . 2. The Board shall:

(a) Inform the President of intelligence activities that any member of the   believes are in violation of the Constitution or laws of  , Executive orders, or Presidential directives;

(b) Forward to the Attorney General reports received concerning intelligence activities that the   believes may be unlawful;

(c) Review the internal guidelines of each agency within   concerning the lawfulness of intelligence activities;

(d) Review the practices and procedures of   and General Counsel of   for discovering and reporting intelligence activities that may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive; and

(e) Conduct such investigations as the   deems necessary to carry out its functions under this  .

 . 3. The Board shall, when required by this  , report directly to the President. The Board shall consider and take appropriate action with respect to matters identified by the Director of  ,   or other agencies of  . With respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, the   shall advise and make appropriate recommendations to the Director of  ,  , and other agencies of  .

 . 4. The heads of departments and agencies of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with all information necessary to carry out its responsibilities. Inspectors General and   of the Intelligence Community shall, to the extent permitted by law, report to the   concerning intelligence activities that they have reason to believe may be unlawful or contrary to Executive order or Presidential directive.

 . 5. Information made available to the   shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Each member of the  , each member of the  's staff, and each of the  's consultants shall execute an agreement never to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her service with the   except to the President or to such persons as the President may designate.

 . 6. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but may receive transportation, expense, and per diem allowances as authorized by law. Staff and consultants to the   shall receive pay and allowances as authorized by the President.

 

 ,

 .
