Executive Order  —Foreign Service of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including the Foreign Service Act of   (94 Stat.  , 22 U.S.C.   et seq.), Section 202 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C.  ), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to provide for the administration of    , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There are hereby delegated to the Secretary of   those functions vested in the President by Sections 205, 401(a), 502(c), 613, and 801 of the Foreign Service Act of  , hereinafter referred to as the Act (22 U.S.C.  , 3942(a) (1), 3892(c),  , and  ).

 . 2. The Secretary of   shall, in accord with Section 205 of the Act (22 U.S.C.  ), consult with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the Director of  , in order to ensure compatibility between   personnel system and other government personnel systems.

 . 3. The Secretary of   shall make recommendations to the President through the Director of   whenever action is appropriate under Section 827 of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4067) to maintain existing conformity between   and  .

 . 4. In accord with Section 402 of the Act (22 U.S.C.  ), there are established the following salary classes with titles for   (SFS), at basic rates of pay equivalent to that established from time to time for   (ES) under Section 5382 of Title 5 of the United States Code.

Career Minister

(a) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 6.

Minister-Counselor

(a) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 6, or

(b) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 5, or

(c) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 4.

Counselor

(a) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 6, or

(b) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 5, or

(c) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 4, or

(d) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 3, or

(e) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 2, or

(f) Basic rate of pay equivalent to ES 1.

 . 5. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , without further action by the President, the authority vested in the President by Section 2107 of the Act to the extent necessary to implement the provisions of Section 2101 of the Act, relating to pay and benefits pending conversion.

 . 6. (a) Pursuant to Section 211 of the Act (22 U.S.C.  ), there is established in   for  .

(b) The Board shall be appointed by, and in accordance with regulations prescribed by, the Secretary of  , except that not less than five shall be career members of   and not less than seven shall be appointed as follows.

(1) not less than five shall be appointed by the heads of the agencies utilizing   personnel system;

(2) not less that one shall be a representative appointed by the Director of  ; and

(3) not less than one shall be a representative appointed by the Secretary of  .

(c) The Secretary of   shall designate from among the members of the   a Chairman who is a member of the Service.

(d) The Secretary of   shall provide all necessary administrative services and facilities for the  .

 . 7. For the purpose of ensuring the accuracy of information used in the administration of  , the Secretary of   may request from the Secretary of   and   such information as the Secretary deems necessary. To the extent permitted by law: (a) The Secretary of   shall provide information on retired or retainer pay provided under Title 10, United States Code; and, (b)   shall provide information on pensions or compensation provided under Title 38 of the United States Code. The Secretary, in consultation with the officials from whom information is requested, shall ensure that information made available under this   is used only for the purpose authorized.

 . 8. This   shall be effective as of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:54 a.m.,  ]
