Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to reduce the burdens of existing and future regulations, increase agency accountability for regulatory actions, provide for presidential oversight of the regulatory process, minimize duplication and conflict of regulations, and insure well-reasoned regulations, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Order:

(a) "Regulation" or "rule" means an agency statement of general applicability and future effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the procedure or practice requirements of an agency, but does not include:

(1) Administrative actions governed by the provisions of   and 557 of Title 5 of the United States Code;

(2) Regulations issued with respect to a military or foreign affairs function of  ; or

(3) Regulations related to agency organization, management, or personnel.

(b) "Major rule" means any regulation that is likely to result in:

(1) An   effect on the economy of $100 million or more;

(2) A major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual industries,  , or local government agencies, or geographic regions; or

(3) Significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of  -based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets.

(c) "Director" means the Director of  .

(d) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), excluding those agencies specified in 44 U.S.C. 3502(10).

(e) "Task Force" means  .

 . 2. General  . In promulgating new regulations, reviewing existing regulations, and developing legislative proposals concerning regulation, all agencies, to the extent permitted by law, shall adhere to the following requirements:

(a) Administrative decisions shall be based on adequate information concerning the need for and consequences of proposed government action;

(b) Regulatory action shall not be undertaken unless the potential benefits to society from the regulation outweigh the potential costs to society;

(c) Regulatory objectives shall be chosen to maximize the net benefits to society;

(d) Among alternative approaches to any given regulatory objective, the alternative involving the least net cost to society shall be chosen; and

(e) Agencies shall set regulatory priorities with the aim of maximizing the aggregate net benefits to society, taking into account the condition of the particular industries affected by regulations, the condition of the national economy, and other regulatory actions contemplated for the future.

 . 3.  .

(a) In order to implement Section 2 of this  , each agency shall, in connection with every major rule, prepare, and to the extent permitted by law consider, a Regulatory Impact Analysis. Such Analyses may be combined with any Regulatory Flexibility Analyses performed   U.S.C. 603 and 604.

(b) Each agency shall initially determine whether a rule it intends to propose or to issue is a major rule, provided that, the Director, subject to the direction of  , shall have authority, in accordance with  ) and 2 of this  , to prescribe criteria for making such determinations, to order a rule to be treated as a major rule, and to require any set of related rules to be considered together as a major rule.

(c) Except as provided in Section 8 of this  , agencies shall prepare Regulatory Impact Analyses of major rules and transmit them, along with all notices of proposed rulemaking and all final rules, to the Director as follows:

(1) If no notice of proposed rulemaking is to be published for a proposed major rule that is not an emergency rule, the agency shall prepare only a final  , which shall be transmitted, along with the proposed rule, to the Director at least 60 days prior to the publication of the major rule as a final rule;

(2) With respect to all other major rules, the agency shall prepare a preliminary  , which shall be transmitted, along with a notice of proposed rulemaking, to the Director at least 60 days prior to the publication of a notice of proposed rulemaking, and a final  , which shall be transmitted along with the final rule   prior to the publication of the major rule as a final rule;

(3) For all rules other than major rules, agencies shall submit to the Director,   prior to publication, every notice of proposed rulemaking and final rule.

(d) To permit each proposed major rule to be analyzed in light of the requirements stated in Section 2 of this  , each preliminary and final Regulatory Impact Analysis shall contain the following information:

(1) A, description of the potential benefits of the rule, including any beneficial effects that cannot be quantified in monetary terms, and the identification of those likely to receive the benefits;

(2) A description of the potential costs of the rule, including any adverse effects that cannot be quantified in monetary terms, and the identification of those likely to bear the costs;

(3) A determination of the potential net benefits of the rule, including an evaluation of effects that cannot be quantified in monetary terms;

(4) A description of alternative approaches that could substantially achieve the same regulatory goal at lower cost, together with an analysis of this potential benefit and costs and a brief explanation of the legal reasons why such alternatives, if proposed, could not be adopted; and

(5) Unless covered by the description required under paragraph (4) of this subsection, an explanation of any legal reasons why the rule cannot be based on the requirements set forth in Section 2 of this  .

(e)(1) The Director, subject to the direction of  , which shall resolve any issues raised under this   or ensure that they are presented to the President, is authorized to review any preliminary or final  , notice of proposed rulemaking, or final rule based on the requirements of this  .

(2) The Director shall be deemed to have concluded review unless the Director advises an agency to the contrary under subsection (f) of this Section:

(A) Within   of a submission under subsection (c)(1) or a submission of a preliminary   or notice of proposed rulemaking under subsection (c)(2);

(B) Within   of the submission of a final   and a final rule under subsection (c)(2); and

(c) Within   of the submission of a notice of proposed rulemaking or final rule under Subsection (c)(3).

(f)(1) Upon the request of the Director, an agency shall consult with the Director concerning the review of a preliminary   or notice of proposed rulemaking under this  , and shall, subject to Section 8(a)(2) of this  , refrain from publishing its preliminary   or notice of proposed rulemaking until such review is concluded.

(2) Upon receiving notice that the Director intends to submit views with respect to any final Regulatory Impact Analysis or final rule, the agency shall, subject to Section 8(a)(2) of this  , refrain from publishing its final   or final rule until the agency has responded to the Director's views, and incorporated those views and the agency's response in the rulemaking file.

(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to as displacing the agencies' responsibilities delegated by law.

(g) For every rule for which an agency publishes a notice of proposed rulemaking, the agency shall include in its notice:

(1) A brief statement setting forth the agency's initial determination whether the proposed rule is a major rule, together with the reasons underlying that determination; and

(2) For each proposed major rule, a brief summary of the agency's preliminary  .

(h) Agencies shall make their preliminary and final Regulatory Impact Analyses available to the public.

(i) Agencies shall initiate reviews of currently effective rules in accordance with the purposes of this  , and perform   of currently effective major rules. The Director, subject to the direction of  , may designate currently effective rules for review in accordance with this  , and establish schedules for reviews and Analyses under this  .

 . 4.  . Before approving any final major rule, each agency shall:

(a) Make a determination that the regulation is clearly within the authority delegated by law and consistent with congressional intent, and include in   at the time of promulgation a memorandum of law supporting that determination.

(b) Make a determination that the factual conclusions upon which the rule is based have substantial support in the agency record, viewed as a whole, with full attention to public comments in general and the comments of persons directly affected by the rule in particular.

 . 5.  .

(a) Each agency shall publish, in   and  , an agenda of proposed regulations that the agency has issued or expects to issue, and currently effective rules that are under agency review pursuant to this  . These agendas may be incorporated with the agendas published under 5 U.S.C. 602, and must contain at the minimum:

(1) A summary of the nature of each major rule being considered, the objectives and legal basis for the issuance of the rule, and an approximate schedule for completing action on any major rule for which the agency has issued a notice of proposed rulemaking;

(2) The name and telephone number of a knowledgeable agency official for each item on the agenda; and

(3) A list of existing regulations to be reviewed under the terms of this  , and a brief discussion of each such regulation.

(b) The Director, subject to the direction of  , may, to the extent permitted by law:

(1) Require agencies to provide additional information in an agenda; and

(2) Require publication of the agenda in any form.

 . 6.  .

(a) To the extent permitted by law, the Director shall have authority, subject to the direction of  , to:

(1) Designate any proposed or existing rule as a major rule in accordance with Section l(b) of this  ;

(2) Prepare and promulgate uniform standards for the identification of major rules and the development of Regulatory Impact Analyses;

(3) Require an agency to obtain and evaluate, in connection with a regulation, any additional relevant data from any appropriate source;

(4) Waive the requirements of  , or 7 of this   with respect to any proposed or existing major rule;

(5) Identify duplicative, overlapping and conflicting rules, existing or proposed, and existing or proposed rules that are inconsistent with the policies underlying statutes governing agencies other than the issuing agency or with the purposes of this  , and, in each such case, require appropriate interagency consultation to minimize or eliminate such duplication, overlap, or conflict;

(6) Develop procedures for estimating the   benefits and costs of agency regulations, on both an aggregate and economic or industrial sector basis, for purposes of compiling a regulatory budget;

(7) In consultation with interested agencies, prepare for consideration by the President recommendations for changes in the agencies' statutes; and

(8) Monitor agency compliance with the requirements of this   and advise the President with respect to such compliance.

(b) The Director, subject to the direction of  , is authorized to establish procedures for the performance of all functions vested in the Director by this  . The Director shall take appropriate steps to coordinate the implementation of the analysis, transmittal, review, and clearance provisions of this   with the authorities and requirements provided for or imposed upon the Director and agencies under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., and   of  , 44 U.S.C.   et seq.

 . 7. Pending Regulations.

(a) To the extent necessary to permit reconsideration in accordance with this  , agencies shall, except as provided in Section 8 of this  , suspend or postpone the effective dates of all major rules that they have promulgated in final form as of the date of this  , but that have not yet become effective, excluding:

(1) Major rules that cannot legally be postponed or suspended;

(2) Major rules that, for good cause, ought to become effective as final rules without reconsideration. Agencies shall prepare, in accordance with Section 3 of this  , a final   for each major rule that they suspend or postpone.

(b) Agencies shall report to the Director   prior to the effective date of any rule that the agency has promulgated in final form as of the date of this  , and that has not yet become effective, and that will not be reconsidered under subsection (a) of this Section:

(1) That the rule is excepted from reconsideration under subsection (a), including a brief statement of the legal or other reasons for that determination; or

(2) That the rule is not a major rule.

(c) The Director, subject to the direction of  , is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to:

(1) Require reconsideration, in accordance with this  , of any major rule that an agency has issued in final form as of the date of this   and that has not become effective; and

(2) Designate a rule that an agency has issued in final form as of the date of this   and that has not yet become effective as a major rule in accordance with Section l(b) of this  .

(d) Agencies may, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable statutes, permit major rules that they have issued in final form as of the date of this  , and that have not yet become effective, to take effect as interim rules while they are being reconsidered in accordance with this  , provided that, agencies shall report to the Director,   before any such rule is proposed to take effect as an interim rule, that the rule should appropriately take effect as an interim rule while the rule is under reconsideration.

(e) Except as provided in Section 8 of this  , agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, refrain from promulgating as a final rule any proposed major rule that has been published or issued as of the date of this   until a final  , in accordance with Section 3 of this  , has been prepared for the proposed major rule.

(f) Agencies shall report to the Director,   prior to promulgating as a final rule any proposed rule that the agency has published or issued as of the date of this   and that has not been considered under the terms of this Order:

(1) That the rule cannot legally be considered in accordance with this  , together with a brief explanation of the legal reasons barring such consideration; or

(2) That the rule is not a major rule, in which case the agency shall submit to the Director a copy of the proposed rule.

(g) The Director, subject to the direction of  , is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to:

(1) Require consideration, in accordance with this  , of any proposed major rule that the agency has published or issued as of the date of this  ; and

(2) Designate a proposed rule that an agency has published or issued as of the date of this  , as a major rule in accordance with Section l(b) of this  .

(h) The Director shall be deemed to have determined that an agency's report to the Director under subsections (b), (d), or (f) of this Section is consistent with the purposes of this  , unless the Director advises the agency to the contrary:

(1) Within   of its report, in the case of any report under subsections (b) or (d); or

(2) Within   of its report, in the case of any report under subsection (f).

(i) This Section does not supersede the President's Memorandum of  , entitled "Postponement of Pending Regulations", which shall remain in effect until  .

(j) In complying with this Section, agencies shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, and with any other procedural requirements made applicable to the agencies by other statutes.

 . 8. Exemptions.

(a) The procedures prescribed by this   shall not apply to:

(1) Any regulation that responds to an emergency situation, provided that, any such regulation shall be reported to the Director as soon as is practicable, the agency shall publish in   a statement of the reasons why it is impracticable for the agency to follow the procedures of this   with respect to such a rule, and the agency shall prepare and transmit as soon as is practicable a Regulatory Impact Analysis of any such major rule; and

(2) Any regulation for which consideration or reconsideration under the terms of this   would conflict with deadlines iraposed by statute or by judicial order, provided that, any such regulation shall be reported to the Director together with a brief explanation of the conflict, the agency shall publish in   a statement of the reasons why it is impracticable for the agency to follow the procedures of this   with respect to such a rule, and the agency, in consultation with the Director, shall adhere to the requirements of this   to the extent permitted by statutory or judicial deadlines.

(b) The Director, subject to the direction of  , may, in accordance with the purposes of this  , exempt any class or category of regulations from any or all requirements of this  .

 . 9.  . This   is intended only to improve the internal management of the Federal government, and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers or any person. The determinations made by agencies under Section 4 of this  , and any Regulatory Impact Analyses for any rule, shall be made part of the whole record of agency action in connection with the rule.

 . 10. Revocations. Executive Orders No.  , as amended, and No.   are revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:19 p.m.,  ]
