Executive Order  —  on Indian Reservation Economies
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory commission to promote the development of a strong private sector on   recognized   reservations, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established a   on Indian Reservation Economies.

(b) The   shall be composed of no more than nine members, who shall he appointed by the President from among the private sector, reservation tribal governments, economic academicians, and Federal employees.

(c) The President shall designate a   representative and an   representative to serve as cochairmen of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President on what actions should be taken to develop a stronger private sector on   recognized   reservations, lessen tribal dependence on Federal monies and programs and reduce the Federal presence in   affairs. The underlying principles of this mission are the government-to-government relationship, the established Federal policy of self-determination and the Federal trust responsibility.

(b) The   will focus exclusively on the following items, and not on new Federal financial assistance:

(1) Defining the existing Federal legislative, regulatory, and procedural obstacles to the creation of positive economic environments on   reservations.

(2) Identifying and recommending changes or other remedial actions necessary to remove these obstacles.

(3) Defining the obstacles at the  , local and tribal government levels which impede both   and   private sector investments on reservations.

(4) Identifying actions which these levels of government could take to rectify the identified problems.

(5) Recommending ways for the private sector, both   and  , to participate in the development and growth of reservation economies, including capital formation.

(c) The   should review studies undertaken in   to obtain pertinent recommendations that are directly related to its mission.

(d) The   shall, unless sooner extended, submit a final report to the President and to the Secretary of the   within   after appointment of the last Commissioner, or by  , whichever comes earlier.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) Members of the   may receive compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the   members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Secretary of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(d) The   will meet approximately 15 times at the call of the chairmen. All meetings of the   and all agenda must have prior approval of the chairmen.

(e) In carrying out its responsibilities, the   is authorized to:

(1) Conduct hearings, interviews, and reviews at field sites, or wherever deemed necessary to fulfill its duties.

(2) Confer with   tribal government officials and members, private sector business officials and managers, and other parties dealing with matters pertaining to the  's mission.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the advisory commission established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after it transmits its final report to the President, or on  , whichever come earlier.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  ,    ]
