Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including   of  , as amended (15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.), and notwithstanding the delegations to the Secretary of Energy in Executive Order No.   as amended by Executive Order No.  , and in order to provide for an immediate and orderly decontrol of crude oil and refined petroleum products, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. All crude oil and refined petroleum products are exempted from the price and allocation controls adopted pursuant to   of  , as amended. The Secretary of Energy shall promptly take such action as is necessary to revoke the price and allocation regulations made unnecessary by this  .

 . 2. Notwithstanding Section 1 of this Order:

(a) All reporting and record-keeping requirements in effect under the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act, as amended, shall continue in effect until eliminated or modified by the Secretary of  . The Secretary of Energy shall promptly review' those requirements and shall eliminate them, except for those that are necessary for emergency planning and energy information gathering purposes required by law.

(b) The   set-aside for middle distillates (Special Rule 10. 10   Part 211,  ,  ) shall remain in effect until  .

(c) The special allocation of middle distillates for surface passenger mass transportation (Special Rule 9, 10   Part 211,  ,  ) shall remain in effect until  .

(d) The Buy-Sell lists and orders issued prior to this   under the Buy-Sell Program and the Emergency Buy-Sell Program (10 CFR 211.65) shall remain in effect according to their terms and the Secretary of   may issue such further orders as may be necessary to give effect to lists and orders issued prior to this  .

(e)   (10   Part 214) shall remain in effect until  .

 . 3. The Secretary of   may, pursuant to Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , adopt such regulations and take such actions as he deems necessary to implement this  , including the promulgation of entitlements notices for periods prior to this   and the establishment of a mechanism for entitlements adjustments for periods prior to this  .

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to take such other actions as he deems necessary to ensure that the purposes of this   are effectuated.

 . 5. Because advance notice of and public procedure on the decontrol provided by this   would be likely to cause actions that could lead to economic distortions and dislocations, and would therefore be contrary to the public interest, this   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 ,

[Filed with  , 4:38 p.m.,  ]
