Executive  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (the Trade Act) (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, Section 604 of the Trade Act (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and as President of  , in order to modify the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries and to adjust the original designation of eligible articles, and in particular in order to clarify that certain import sensitive articles are and since the enactment of the Trade Act of   have been precluded from eligibility for duty-free treatment pursuant to section 503(c)(i) of the Trade Act, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to subdivide the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country is amended by adding in numerical sequence   item numbers 688.32 and 688.34 created by   I of this  , and by deleting TSUS items 688.35 and 688.44.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary developing countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended by deleting   item 688.45 therefrom and inserting in lieu thereof   item 688.43.

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified by deleting "688.45...  " therefrom and inserting "688.43 ...  " in lieu thereof.

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Proclamation 4707 of  , is amended by Annex II to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 6. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty inserted in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I of this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 7. In order to correct a typographical error in Executive Order No. 12354 of  ,   I thereto is modified by inserting in the column of rates to be inserted in   column of the   for item 661.14 the rate "35% ad val.".

 . 8. The amendments made by this   are effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after   following the date of this  , and for all articles previously entered for which liquidation has not been made final as of such date.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:04 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in  .
