Executive Order 12524—Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 503(a)(2)(A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), and as President of  , in order to designate, as provided by section 504(c)(6) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)(6)), those countries that will be considered to be least-developed beneficiary developing countries not subject to the limitations on preferential treatment of eligible articles for purposes of   ( ), after taking into account the considerations in sections 501 and 502(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.   and 2462(c)); and to modify as provided by sections 504 (a) and (c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(a) and (c)) the limitations on preferential treatment of eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to designate the countries that will be considered to be least developed beneficiary developing countries, general headnote 3(c) of     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) is modified by adding the following new paragraph 3(cxiv):

"(iv) The following beneficiary countries are designated as least-developed beneficiary developing countries pursuant to section 504(c)(6) of the Trade Act of  :

Bangladesh Lesotho

 

Bhutan Maidives

 

Burkina Faso Nepal

Burundi Niger

Cape  

  Sao Tome and Principe

Republic Sierra Leone

Chad Somalia

Comoros  

   

Equatorial Guinea Togo

Gambia  

 

Guinea-Bissau  

Haiti (Sanaa)

Whenever an eligible article is imported into the customs territory of   directly from one of the countries designated as a least-developed beneficiary developing country, it shall be entitled to receive the duty-free treatment provided for in subdivision (c)(ii) of this headnote without regard to the limitations on preferential treatment of eligible articles in section 504(c) of the Trade Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2464(c))."

Sec. 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is further amended by inserting in numerical sequence "734.56".

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in general headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is further amended by striking out "734.56".

 . 4. General headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified by striking out "734.56...  ".

 . 5. The amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:08 a.m.,  ,  ]
