Executive Order  —President's Committee on the   and the Humanities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of  , and to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee to assist in efforts to increase private sector support for the arts and the humanities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Committee on the   and the  . The   shall be composed of the Chairman of  ; the Chairman of  ; the Secretary of the  ; the Secretary of the  ; the Secretary of  ;  ; the Director of  ; the Director of  ; a member designated by the Secretary of  ; and not more than twenty persons who are not full-time officers or employees of   ("non-Federal members"), who shall be appointed by the President and shall be selected from among private individuals and   and local public officials who have a demonstrated interest in and commitment to support for the arts or the humanities. In addition, the Majority Leader of the   and the Speaker of   are each invited to designate a member of the   for appointment by the President, and  , the Secretary of   and the Director of   are invited to serve as members of the  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman or   from among the non-Federal members of the  , and may also designate Vice Chairmen from among members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall analyze, and make recommendations to the President and to   and   with respect to, (i) ways to promote private sector support for the arts and the humanities, especially at the   and local levels; (ii) the effectiveness of Federal support for the arts and the humanities in stimulating increased private sector support, taking into account the economic needs and problems of the arts and the humanities and their relationship with the private sector; (iii) the planning and coordination of appropriate participation (including productions and projects) in major and historic national events; and (iv) ways to promote the recognition of excellence in the fields of the arts and the humanities. In performing these functions, the   shall collect, maintain and make available for appropriate distribution data on the sources and levels of public and private sector support for the arts and the humanities, and on the availability of cultural resources locally. The  's functions shall not conflict with the responsibilities of   and  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) Members of the   shall serve without additional compensation for their work on the  . However, members of the   who are not full-time officers or employees of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(b) Any administrative support or other expenses of the   shall be paid, to the extent permitted by law, from funds available to  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Chairman of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:06 a.m.,  ]
