Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on private sector initiatives, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's  . The   shall be composed of not more than 39 members, to be appointed or designated by the President. The members shall be selected as follows:

(1) Nine members from the public sector, consisting of  ,  ,  ,  , and  , the Director of ACTION, and   Deputy Chief of Staff.

(2) Thirty members from private life.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the  . The Special Assistant to the President for Private Sector Initiatives shall serve as Secretary to the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President, through  , with respect to the objectives and conduct of private sector initiative policies, including methods of increasing public awareness of the importance of public/private partnerships; removing barriers to development of effective social service programs which are administered by private organizations; and strengthening the professional resources of the private social service sector.

(b) The   shall seek the advice, ideas and recommendations of   and such other government offices as the President may deem appropriate in order to fulfill its responsibilities under this  .

(c) In performance of its advisory responsibilities, the   shall report to the President from time to time as requested.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information with respect to private sector initiative issues as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c)   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4, General. The   shall terminate   from the date of this  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:42 p.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
