Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and section 503(a)(2)(A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), and as President of  , in order to modify, as provided by sections 504(a) and (c) of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2464(a) and (c)), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, to adjust the original designation of eligible articles after taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of sections 503(a) and 131-134 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ; 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.), to modify the designations of beneficiary developing countries in accord with my notification to  , and in accord with technical changes in the identification of certain beneficiary developing countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex II attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex III, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified by substituting therefor the General Headnote 3(c)(iii) set forth in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Presidential Proclamation 4707 of  , and   to Presidential Proclamation 4768 of  , are amended by Annex V to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 6. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the   listing the designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the   is modified as provided in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 7. Whenever the column i rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty inserted in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I of this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 8.   and IV of Presidential Proclamation 4707 of  , and  ,   and IV of Presidential Proclamation 4768 of  , are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 9. Unless otherwise specified, the amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:06 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in  .
