Executive Order  —  on the Peace Corps
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   on  .

(b) The   shall be composed of no more than 15 persons, who shall be appointed by the President. The President shall designate a member to serve as Chairman of the   and a member to serve as Vice Chairman. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

 . 2. Functions (a) The   shall advise the President and the Director of   on initiatives needed to promote the purposes of   and actions of   which do so,

(b) The   shall submit simultaneously to the President and the Director of   an   report on its review of   activities, its recommendations concerning those activities, and the activities of the  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of the   agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall not receive compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Director of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Director of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   from the date of this  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:18 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
