Executive Order  —Exclusions From   Management Relations Program
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 7103(b) of Title 5 of the United States Code, and in order to exempt certain agencies or subdivisions thereof from coverage of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Determinations. The agencies or subdivisions thereof set forth in Section 3 of this   are hereby determined to have as a primary function intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work. It is also hereby determined that Chapter 71 of Title 5 of the United States Code cannot be applied to these agencies or subdivisions in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations. These agencies or subdivisions thereof are hereby excluded from coverage under Chapter 71 of Title 5 of the United States Code.

 . 2. Relationship to Executive Order No.  . The determinations set forth in Section i of this   are the same determinations that I made at the time of and as a predicate to my issuance on  , of Executive Order No.  , which was issued for the same purpose as this  . On  , Executive Order No.   was held by   District Court to be incomplete as a matter of form, and therefore invalid, because it did not expressly set forth these determinations.   v.  , Civil No. 86-1587 (D.D.C.). These determinations were not expressly set forth in the text of Executive Order No.   because all that   did was amend Executive Order No.   by adding the agencies or subdivisions referred to in Section 1 of this   to the list in Executive Order No.   of entities excluded from coverage of  , and these determinations were already expressly set forth in the text of Executive Order No.  , which remains in effect (as amended). This   is not intended to reflect any belief that the form of Executive Order No.   was invalid, but is intended solely to accomplish the purpose of that  .

 . 3. Amendment of Executive Order No.  . Executive  .   is amended by deleting Section 1-209 and inserting in its place:

Sec. 1-209. Agencies or subdivisions of  . (a)   and  , including all domestic field offices and intelligence units, of  .

(b)  ,  ,  ,   and   in   and   in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:28 a.m.,  ]
