Executive Order  —  Assets Title Dispute
 
 

Action Against Certain Assets of Disputed Title

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 204 of the Special Foreign Assistance Act of   (Public Law 99-529) and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and for the limited purpose of preserving the status quo pending a judicial resolution of the proceedings that have been or may be instituted by   in its efforts to recover assets allegedly stolen by its former President,  , and his associates, and without expressing any opinion as to the merits of any claim or defense in any judicial proceeding, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The acquisition, transfer (including transfer on the books of any issuer, holder, or depositary), payment, disposition, transportation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the recording of interest in or ownership of, or any deed of title, mortgage, or other evidence of ownership or title regarding or dealing in, any real or personal property, of any kind whatsoever, located in   and described in Section 2 of this   is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the Secretary of the   under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe.

 . 2. Property will be considered to fall within the scope of this   and to be subject to the prohibition contained in Section 1 when:

(a)   certifies, in writing with appropriate documentation, to the Secretary of the   that:

(1) it has initiated litigation in the Federal or State courts of   alleging that   or its instrumentalities should be awarded title to, custody of, or possession of, the property;

(2) it has evidence reasonably to believe that such property currently is held or possessed by or in the name of   or other individuals associated with the   regime, or a taker from   or his associates;

(3) it has petitioned the court to attach or otherwise restrain the property and has reason to believe that the court would grant such petition were   to post adequate bond; and

(4) it is unable, without outside assistance, to post the necessary security because of lack of assets;

(b)   gives notice to the holder of the property that such property falls within the scope of this   and, in consultation with   and  , has not determined that an insufficient basis exists for the certification by  ; and

(c) The court which   has petitioned to attach or otherwise restrain the property has not denied such petition on grounds other than the failure of   to post adequate bond.

 . 3. Upon the entry of final judgment and after exhaustion of any appeals that might be taken, as well as satisfaction of any judgment, in any action in which the property described in Section 2 was sought, the property shall no longer be subject to the prohibition contained in Section 1 of this Order.

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 5. This   is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 . 6. This   is effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:56 p.m.,  ]
