Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 503(a)(2)(A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), in order to modify, as provided by sections 504(a) and (c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(a) and (c)), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries; to adjust the original designation of eligible articles after taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of sections 131-134 and 503(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2151-2154,  ); to provide for the continuation, to the greatest extent possible, of preferential treatment under   ( ) for articles which are currently eligible for such treatment and which are imported from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, following changes to     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) made by   (48 F.R. 56553); and to make technical changes in the identification of certain beneficiary developing countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of the  , the   are modified as provided in   I to this  .

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex II to this  .

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex III to this  .

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified by substituting therefor the General Headnote 3(c)(iii) set forth in Annex IV to this  .

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Proclamation 4707, and   Proclamation 4768, are amended as set forth in Annex V to this  .

 . 6. Whenever the column I rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I to this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 7.   and IV of Proclamation 4707, Annexes II, III, and IV of Proclamation 4768, and   I of Executive Order No.  , are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 8. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the   listing the designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the   is modified as provided in Annex VI to this  .

 . 9. In order to clarify the eligibility of certain articles for benefits of the  , headnote 1 to subpart C, part 2 of the Appendix to the   is modified by deleting "the   to". This modification is effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 . 10. Unless otherwise specified, the amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:11 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes to the   order are printed in    .
