Executive Order  —  in Federal Programs
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to coordinate and implement Government policies with respect to integrity and efficiency in Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of the President's  . (a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's  .

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(1) The Deputy Director of   who shall be the Chairman of the  ;

(2) The Deputy Attorney General;

(3) The Director of  ;

(4) The Executive Assistant Director of Investigations of  ;

(5) Inspector General,  ;

(6) Inspector General,  ;

(7) Inspector General,  ;

(8) Inspector General,  ;

(9) Inspector General,  ;

(10) Inspector General,  ;

(11) Inspector General,  ;

(12) Inspector General,  ;

(13) Inspector General of   and  ;

(14) Inspector General,  ;

(15) Inspector General,  ;

(16) Inspector General,  ;

(17) Inspector General,  ;

(18) Inspector General,  ;

(19) Inspector General,  ;

(20) Inspector General,  ;

(21) A designee of the Secretary of the  ;

(22) A designee of the Secretary of  , and

(23) A designee of the Director of  .

(c) The Chairman shall, from time to time, invite the following to participate in the meetings of  (1)    , and

(2)   of  .

 . 2. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall develop plans for coordinated government-wide activities which attack fraud and waste in government programs and operations.

(b) In order to ensure coordinated relationships between   and local government agencies, and nongovernment entities with respect to all matters relating to the promotion of economy and efficiency, the   shall develop standards for the management, operation, and conduct of inspector general-type activities.

(c) Policies shall be developed by the   which will ensure the establishment of a corps of well-trained and highly skilled auditors and investigators.

(d) The   shall develop interagency audit and investigation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste which exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency. The   will recognize the pre-eminent role of   in matters involving law enforcement and litigation.

(e) The   membership shall, to the extent of their own authority to do so, implement those coordinated plans, standards, policies, programs, and projects, (1) in order to conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to programs and operations of the Government, and (2) in order to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of programs and operations of the Government, as well as to detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.

(f) The creation and operation of the   shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies.

 . 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. (a) The Chairman shall, in consultation with the members of the  , establish procedures for the  ; and, he shall establish the agenda for   activities.

(b) The Chairman shall, on behalf of the  , report to the President on the activities of the  . The Chairman shall advise the   with respect to the reaction of the President on the  's activities.

(c) The Chairman shall provide agency heads with summary reports of the activities of the  .

(d) The Chairman shall establish such committees of the  , including an executive committee, as he deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of   functions. Committees of the   may act for the   in those areas that affect the membership of the committee.

(e) The Chairman shall be supported by the Associate Director for   who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the entire range of responsibilities set forth above.

 . 4.  . (a) There is established as an interagency committee  .

(b) The Conference shall be composed of the Chairman of the   and one representative of each Executive agency not represented on the  . The head of each such agency shall designate as the agency's representative the official who is responsible for coordinating the agency's efforts to eliminate fraud and waste in the agency's programs and operations.

(c) The Chairman shall convene meetings of the Conference at least quarterly. The Chairman provide for the dissemination to the Conference of appropriate information on the activities of the  , in order to enable the   membership, to the extent of their own authority to do so, to implement the coordinated plans, standards, policies, programs, and projects developed by the  .

 . 5. Administrative Provisions. (a) The Director of   shall provide the   and the Conference with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the   and the Conference.

(b) The head of each agency represented on the   or the Conference shall provide its representative with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the agency representative to carry out his responsibilities.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:34 p.m.,  ]
