Executive Order  —  on the Conduct of United States-Japan Relations
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1), and in order to create a   to develop recommendations with respect to the conduct of relations between   and  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   on the Conduct of United States-Japan Relations. The   shall be composed of no more than eight members appointed or designated by the President from among citizens of  . The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

(b) The members of this   will constitute   membership of the bi-national   on  -Japan Relations to be established by the two Governments.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall develop recommendations with respect to the conduct of   relations. The   shall examine both the bilateral and multilateral dimensions of the relationship of the two countries with a view to identifying issues requiring resolution and opportunities for expanded cooperation, and make recommendations on ways by which   and   can better carry out their common responsibilities aimed at promoting world peace and prosperity.

(b) The   shall develop its recommendations within the framework of   on  -Japan Relations. This   will address the question of how   and   can better fulfill their long-term responsibilities for world peace and a healthy international economy, and how current issues of mutual concern affect those long-term prospects.

(c) To pursue its goals in connection with participation in   on  -Japan Relations, the   may conduct studies, hearings, and meetings as it deems necessary; assemble and disseminate information, and issue reports and other publications; and coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects, studies, events, and other activities it deems necessary or desirable.

(d) The   shall submit its recommendations to the President and the Secretary of   from time to time as it deems appropriate, but in any case shall submit its initial recommendations within   after   on  -Japan Relations formally has begun its deliberations, or before the date of termination of the  , whichever occurs earlier.

 . 3. Administration. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information and advice on the conduct of   relations as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(c)   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services, and pay such expenses as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1), which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   from this date.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:22 a.m.,  ]
