Executive Order  —Overseas Employment
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of   by Sections 3301 and   of Title 5 and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to permit certain overseas employees to acquire competitive status upon returning to  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. A   citizen who is a family member of a civilian employee or of a member of a uniformed service and who has completed a total of   of fully satisfactory service under one or more overseas appointments in the excepted or competitive civil service, may be appointed noncompetitively to a competitive service position in the   branch within   (including  ,   and  ) if he or she meets the qualifications and other requirements established by the Director of   and the provisions of this  .

 . 2. In order to be eligible for noncompetitive appointment to positions within   under this authority, such an individual must:

(a) have been appointed to an overseas position or positions while residing in the overseas area under local hire procedures approved by the Director of  ;

(b) have completed   of overseas service in an appropriated fund position after   within   from the date of initial appointment;

(c) have received a satisfactory or better performance rating for such overseas service;

(d) have been a family member of a civilian employee or of a member of a uniformed service (the civilian or uniformed sponsor) while serving in the overseas position or positions;

(e) have accompanied the civilian or uniformed sponsor on official assignment to an overseas post of duty while serving in the overseas position or positions; and

(f) exercise the eligibility for noncompetitive appointment within   of returning to  .

 . 3. The Director of   shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement this  , including uniform local hire procedures to assure merit selection of overseas employees.

 . 4. To the extent there is any conflict between this   8.2 (5 CFR 8.2), the provisions of this   shall control.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:32 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
