Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the statutes of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the role of private enterprise in international economic development, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section I. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The Task Force shall be composed of no more than twenty-one members who shall be appointed by the President from among leaders in the private sector. Members will be chosen primarily from the chief operating or chief executive officers of private enterprises, including agribusinesses.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of  .

Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall advise the President, the Director of  , and   with respect to the role private enterprise can play in the implementation of programs and activities under the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended.

(b) The Task Force shall advise on the involvement of specific private enterprises in such programs and activities.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on  . However, they may be allowed transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ).

(e) The Agency for   shall provide the Task Force with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to   established by this  , shall be performed by   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) In accord with  , as amended, the Task Force shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:13 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
