Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 7103 (b) (2) of Title 5 and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and having determined that it is necessary in the interest of national security to suspend certain labor-management relations provisions with respect to overseas activities of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Suspensions. With regard to   citizen employees of  , including the Military Departments, who are employed outside   as defined in 5 U.S.C.   (a) (18), with the exception of those employed in  :

(a) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7105(a)(2) (D), (E), (G), and (H) and of 5 U.S.C. 7123(b) are suspended with respect to any matter which substantially impairs the implementation by   of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between   and the Government of the host nation;

(b) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7102(2), 7114(a)(1), 7114(a)(4), 7116(a)(5), and 7117(e) are suspended with respect to any matter proposed for bargaining which would substantially impair the implementation by   of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto between   and the Government of the host nation;

(c) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7116(a)(7) and 7117(b) are suspended with regard to any regulation governing the implementation by   of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between   and the Government of the host nations; and

(d) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7121(b)(3)(C) are suspended with respect to any grievance involving the implementation by   of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between   and the Government of the host nation.

 . 2. Disputes. Disputes between a labor organization and   as to whether a particular matter is covered by one or more of the suspensions set forth in this   shall be referred to the Secretary of  . The decision of the Secretary in such disputes shall be made after consultation with the Secretary of   and shall be final. The Secretary of   may delegate this authority, but only to the Deputy Secretary of  , an Under Secretary of  , or an Assistant Secretary of  . The functions assigned to the Secretary of   may not be delegated or assigned to anyone below the rank of an Assistant Secretary of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:04 a.m.,  ]
