Executive Order  —Performance of Commercial Activities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to facilitate ongoing efforts to ensure that   acquires needed goods and services in the most economical and efficient manner, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The head of   and agency shall, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) Ensure that new   requirements for commercial activities are provided by private industry, except where statute or national security requires government performance or where private industry costs are unreasonable;

(b) Identify by  , in cooperation with the Director of   all commercial activities currently performed by government. The department and agency heads are encouraged to consult with   in making such identification;

(c) Schedule, by  , all commercial activities identified pursuant to subsection (b) for study in accordance with the procedures of OMB Circular No. A-76, as revised, and the   thereto, to determine whether they could be performed more economically by private industry;

(d) Meet the study goals for   set forth in "Management of the United States Government,  "; and thereafter, beginning with  , conduct   studies of not less than 3 percent of the department or agency's total civilian population, until all identified potential commercial activities have been studied;

(e) Include in each annual budget proposal to   estimates of expected yearly budget savings from the privatization of commercial activities projected to be accomplished following the completion of scheduled studies, unless an exception is authorized by the Director of  . These estimates shall be based on analysis of savings under previous studies and estimated savings to be achieved from future conversions to contract. A department or agency proposal may reflect retention of expected   savings as negotiated with   for use as incentive compensation to reward employees covered by the studies for their productivity efforts, or for use in other productivity enhancement projects;

(f) Develop and maintain an effective job placement program for government employees affected by privatization initiatives and cooperate fully in interagency placement efforts;

(g) Designate a senior-level official to coordinate the OMB Circular No. A-76 studies and other privatization efforts; and

(h) Report to the President on progress  , through the Director of  .

 . 2. The Director of   shall, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) Issue guidance to departments and agencies to implement this  . Such guidance shall be designed to ensure an equitable cost comparison of government-operated commercial activities with private industry performance of the same activities, and to improve the efficiency in the conduct of studies;

(b) Publish for public review (i) not   after its completion, the inventory of commercial activities identified pursuant to section l(b) and the activities scheduled for study by departments and agencies in   pursuant to section l(c); and (ii) not   before the start of  , the list of activities to be reviewed during   pursuant to section l(d); and

(c) Establish a tracking system to monitor, on a   basis, progress by departments and agencies in carrying out this  .

 . 3. The Director of  , in consultation with the heads of other Executive departments and agencies, shall review and revise, as necessary and to the extent permitted by law, personnel policies and regulations in order (a) to ensure that government managers have the flexibility to organize in the most effective and efficient manner to achieve levels of productivity comparable with those of private industry, and (b) to reduce any adverse effects of productivity improvements on employees.

 . 4. For purposes of this  , the terms "commercial activity," "conversion to contract," and "cost comparison" shall have the meanings set forth in OMB Circular No. A-76, as revised.

 . 5. Nothing in this   shall be construed to confer a private right of action on any person, or to add in any way to applicable procurement procedures required by existing law.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:28 p.m.,  ]
