Executive Order  —Providing for the Restoration of Law and Order in  
 
 

Whereas I have   issued Proclamation No. 5748 pursuant in part to the provisions of Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code; and

Whereas the conditions of domestic violence and disorder described therein continue, and the persons engaging in such acts of violence have not dispersed;

Now, Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and as Commander in Chief of   by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Units and members of   will be used to suppress the violence described in the proclamation and to restore law and order in the vicinity of  ,  .

Section 2. The Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of Section 1. To that end, he is authorized to call into the active military service of   units or members of  , as authorized by law, to serve in an active duty status for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. Units or members may be relieved subject to recall at the discretion of the Secretary of  .

In carrying out the provisions of this order, the Secretary of   shall observe such law enforcement policies as the Attorney General may determine.

Section 3. Until such time as the   shall have been withdrawn pursuant to Section 4 of this order, the Attorney General is further authorized (1) to coordinate the activities of all Federal agencies assisting in the suppression of violence and in the administration of justice in the vicinity of  ,   and (2) to coordinate the activities of all such agencies with those of state and local agencies similarly engaged.

Section 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to determine when Federal military forces shall be withdrawn from the disturbance area. Such determinations shall be made in the light of the Attorney General's recommendations as to the ability of civil authorities to resume full responsibility for the maintenance of law and order in the affected area.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:52 a.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was released by   Secretary on  . An accompanying statement printed in  " of   with the   order and Proclamation 5748 indicated that they "were signed by the President because of the possibility that existed on  , that the situation at the Federal prison in   would deteriorate further and that the use of force to free the hostages would be necessary. That situation never arose, and a negotiated settlement was reached. Therefore, the use of units and members of   to suppress the violence described in the proclamation and Executive order was never required."
