Executive Order  —President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), a task force on private sector initiatives policy of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives. The Task Force shall be composed of members who shall be appointed by the President from among private citizens of  , public officials from   and local governments, and members of the   and Executive Branches of the Federal government. No more than one member shall be a full time officer or employee of  . The members shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of  .

Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Task Force shall advise the President, the Secretary of  , and other Executive agency heads with respect to:

(1) Methods of developing, supporting and promoting private sector leadership and responsibility for meeting public needs.

(2) Recommendations for appropriate action by the President to foster greater public-private partnerships and to decrease dependence on government.

(b) The Task Force shall serve as a focal point for private sector action addressing public problems.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information with respect to private sector initiatives issues as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

(b) Members of the Task Force shall serve without any compensation for their work on  . However, they may be allowed travel expenses, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(c)   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to   established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The Task Force shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  ,    ]
