Executive Order  —Prohibiting Imports from  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 505 of   of   (22 U.S.C. 2349aa-9), and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that   is actively supporting terrorism as an instrument of state policy. In addition,   has conducted aggressive and unlawful military action against U.S.-flag vessels and merchant vessels of other nonbelligerent nations engaged in lawful and peaceful commerce in international waters of the Persian Gulf and territorial waters of non-belligerent nations of that region. To ensure that   imports of   goods and services will not contribute financial support to terrorism or to further aggressive actions against non-belligerent shipping, I hereby order that:

Section 1. Except as otherwise provided in regulations issued pursuant to this  , no goods or services of   origin may be imported into  , including its territories and possessions, after the effective date of this  .

 . 2. The prohibition contained in Section I shall not apply to:

(a)  -origin publications and materials imported for news publications or news broadcast dissemination;

(b) petroleum products refined from   crude oil in a third country;

(c) articles imported directly from   into   that were exported from   prior to the effective date of this  .

 . 3, This   shall take effect at 12:01 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on  , except as otherwise provided in regulations issued pursuant to this  .

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this  . The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this  , including the suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this  .

 . 5. The measures taken pursuant to this   are in response to the actions of   referred to above, occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those actions.

This Order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:16 p.m.,  ]
