Executive Order  —  No. 196 To Investigate a Railroad Labor Dispute
 
 

Establishing   and  , and  

A dispute exists between   (SEPTA) and   ( ), and certain labor organizations, designated on the list attached hereto and made a part hereof, representing those employees of   ( ) who are to be transferred to the   and   as part of the transfer of commuter rail service responsibility from   to the   and  , pursuant to Section 1145 of   of  .

The dispute concerns the terms and conditions of new collective bargaining agreements, which were required to be negotiated by  , by Section 510(a) of  , as amended ("the Act"). As of this date, the parties have not entered into new collective bargaining agreements, and the  ,  , and   have requested the President to establish an emergency board pursuant to Section 510(b) of the Act.

Section 510(c) of the Act provides for the President, upon request of a party, to appoint an emergency board to investigate such dispute and to make a report and recommendation for settlement.

Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by Section 510 of  , as amended (45 U.S.C. § 590), it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101.  . There is established, effective  , a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any commuter authority providing commuter rail service.   shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

1-102. Public Hearing. The board shall conduct a public hearing on the dispute at which each party shall appear and provide testimony.

1-103.  . The board shall report on the dispute within   after the date of its creation.

1-104.  . If the parties have not settled the dispute within   after the board's report, the board shall require the parties to submit, within  , their final offers for settlement of the dispute.

1-105. Final report. Within   after the submission of final offers, the board shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer.

 

 ,

 .

 /Delaware:

Labor Organizations

American Train Dispatchers Association

ARASA Division,   and   Railway and   of   and  

Brotherhood of  

International Brotherhood of Boilermakers and  

[Filed with  , 9:34 a.m.,   ]
