Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 203 of   ( ) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), and 22 U.S.C. 287c,

I,  , President of  , find that the unrestricted access of foreign parties to   commercial goods, technology, and technical data and the existence of certain boycott practices of foreign nations constitute, in light of the expiration of the Export Administration Act of  , an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of   and hereby declare a national economic emergency to deal with that threat.

Accordingly, in order (a) to exercise the necessary vigilance over exports from the standpoint of their significance to the national security of  ; (b) to further significantly the foreign policy of  , including its policy with respect to cooperation by   persons with certain foreign boycott activities, and to fulfill its international responsibilities; and (e) to protect the domestic economy from the excessive drain of scarce materials and reduce the serious economic impact of foreign demand, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Notwithstanding the expiration of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), the provisions of that Act, the provisions for administration of that Act and delegations of authority set forth in Executive Order No.   of July 7,   and Executive Order No.   of  , shall, to the extent permitted by law, be incorporated in this   and shall continue in full force and effect.

 . 2. All rules and regulations issued or continued in effect by the Secretary of   under the authority of the Export Administration Act of  , as amended, including those published in Title 15, Chapter III,  , of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 368 to 399 inclusive, and all orders, regulations, licenses and other forms of administrative action issued, taken or continued in effect pursuant thereto, shall, until amended or revoked by the Secretary of  , remain in full force and effect, the same as if issued or taken pursuant to this  , except that the provisions of sections 203(b)(2) and 206 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2) and  ) shall control over any inconsistent provisions in the regulations with respect to, respectively, certain donations to relieve human suffering and civil and criminal penalties for violations subject to this  . Nothing in this section shall affect the continued applicability of administrative sanctions provided for by the regulations described above.

 . 3. Provisions for the administration of section 38(e) of   (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) may be made and shall continue in full force and effect until amended or revoked under the authority of section 203 of the Act (50 U.S.C. 1702). To the extent permitted by law, this   also shall constitute authority for the issuance and continuation in full force and effect of rules and regulations by the President or his delegate, and all orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action issued, taken or continued in effect pursuant thereto, relating to the administration of section 38(e).

 . 4. This   shall be effective as of midnight between October 14 and  , and shall remain in effect until terminated. It is my intention to terminate this   upon the enactment into law of a bill reauthorizing the authorities contained in the Export Administration Act.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:37 p.m.,  ]
