Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , in order to ensure the orderly termination of the six river basin commissions established pursuant to   (42 U.S.C.   et seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In accord with the decision of   pursuant to Section 203(a) of   (42 U.S.C. 1962b-2(a)), the following river basin commissions shall terminate on the date indicated:

(a)  , terminated on  .

(b)  , terminated on  .

(c)  , terminated on  .

(d) New England River Basins Commission, terminated on  .

(e)  , terminated on  .

(f) Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission, terminated on  .

 . 2. All Federal agencies shall cooperate with the commissions and the member States to achieve an orderly close out of commission activities and, if the member States so elect, to carry out an orderly transition of appropriate commission activities to the member  .

 . 3. To the extent permitted by law, the assets of the commissions which   might otherwise be entitled to claim are to be transferred to the member States of the commissions, or such entities as the   acting through their representatives on the commissions may designate, to be used for such water and related land resources planning purposes as the   may decide among themselves. The terms and conditions for transfer of assets under this Section shall be subject to the approval of the Director of  , or such Federal agency as he designates, before the transfer is effective.

 . 4. Federal agency members of river basin commissions are directed to continue coordination and cooperation in future   and   basin planning arrangements.

 . 5. (a) Effective  , the following   are revoked:

(1) Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established  .

(2) Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established the Great Lakes Basin Commission.

(3) Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established the New England River Basins Commission.

(4) Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established the Ohio River Basin Commission.

(5) Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established the  .

(b) Effective  , Executive Order No.  , as amended, which established the Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission, is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:30 p.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
