Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C.   et seq.) as amended, and Section 604(a) of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C. 2483(a)), in order to modify the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries and to make technical corrections to provisions of     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The article description in item 153.05 of the   is modified by deleting therefrom "and blackberry".

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country is further amended by deleting   item 304.58 and by inserting in numerical sequence   item 544.41.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is further amended by deleting item 544.41 therefrom.

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified-

(a) by deleting "544.41 . . .  ";

(b) by inserting " " in addition to   and   opposite item 678.50; and

(c) by deleting " " opposite   item 688.43 and inserting in lieu thereof " ".

 . 5. (a) The amendments made by Sections i and 4(b) of this   are effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on and after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after   following publication of this   in  .

(b) The other amendments made by this   are effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:08 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary. on  .
