117 HRES 1221 IH: Recognizing the religious significance of Eid al-Adha and wishing Muslim Americans and Muslims around the world a prosperous holiday.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1221
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 12, 2022
Mr. Carson
(for himself,
Mrs. Dingell
,
Ms. Tlaib
,
Ms. Omar
,
Mr. Sherman
,
Ms. Adams
,
Ms. Lee of California
,
Ms. Jackson Lee
,
Mr. Lynch
,
Ms. Dean
,
Mr. Vargas
,
Ms. Newman
,
Mr. Payne
, and
Mr. Pappas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the religious significance of Eid al-Adha and wishing Muslim Americans and Muslims around the world a prosperous holiday.
Whereas Eid al-Adha is an Islamic holiday which commemorates Abraham’s symbolic sacrifice of his son to God, as referenced in the Quran, Old Testament, and New Testament;
Whereas Eid al-Adha marks the culmination of the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, called Hajj;
Whereas approximately 1,000,000 Muslims participated in Hajj in the year of 2022;
Whereas Eid al-Adha is a holiday of great importance to millions of Muslim Americans and approximately 1,800,000,000 Muslims around the world;
Whereas, during Eid al-Adha, Muslim Americans recognize the importance of sacrifice, freedom, and justice;
Whereas Eid al-Adha is celebrated around the world with prayers, charity, and social events;
Whereas Islam is one of the world’s major religions;
Whereas American Muslims have contributed to every part of society to make advancements in medicine, science, engineering, economics, sports, education, and the law;
Whereas the Muslim population has been growing in the United States, and today’s American Muslim population is a tapestry of ethnic, racial, linguistic, social, and economic groups;
Whereas over 4,500 Muslims serve on active duty in the United States Armed Forces, and over 2,300 Muslims serve as selected reserve personnel; and
Whereas the observance of Eid al-Adha is celebrated for 3 days: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
demonstrates solidarity with and support for members of the community of Islam in the United States and throughout the world;
(2)
recognizes the importance of the Islamic faith; and
(3)
wishes Muslim Americans and Muslims around the world who observe Eid al-Adha a prosperous holiday.
