117 HRES 1149 IH: Commending Port Houston, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Project 11 partners for their work on expanding the Houston Ship Channel.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-31
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1149
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 31, 2022
Ms. Garcia of Texas
(for herself,
Mr. Green of Texas
,
Mrs. Fletcher
,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Crenshaw
, and
Mr. Babin
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Commending Port Houston, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Project 11 partners for their work on expanding the Houston Ship Channel.
Whereas, in 1914, the Houston Ship Channel was officially opened by President Woodrow Wilson as the deep water access point to the Gulf of Mexico with a mission to create prosperity and to provide global access to the world’s cargo;
Whereas the Houston Ship Channel has grown to sustain over 1,000,000 jobs in Texas and 3,200,000 jobs in the United States, creating economic prosperity and opportunity for all;
Whereas 75 percent of the jobs created by the Houston Ship Channel are located in disadvantaged communities, providing ladders of opportunity to millions of individuals in the United States;
Whereas the cargo traversing the Houston Ship Channel touches every congressional district in the United States and generates over $803,000,000,000 in economic impact across the Nation;
Whereas expanding the Houston Ship Channel through Project 11 will create a safer, faster, and cleaner channel for all users and enable the Port of Houston to continue to lead the Nation as first among ports in the United States in total tonnage, driving regional prosperity;
Whereas Project 11 is a pioneering approach for delivering this $1,000,000,000 project through Federal, local, and private partnerships and for rapidly providing economic and environmental benefits to the communities of Houston, demonstrating the collaborative power of the people of the United States;
Whereas Project 11 will create hundreds of acres of bird islands, marshes, and oyster reefs to protect and foster local ecosystems;
Whereas Project 11 is one of the cleanest projects Port Houston has initiated to date and will reduce emissions through cleaner dredge equipment and sustainable construction practices; and
Whereas, upon completion, Project 11 will enable the millions of people in the United States who rely on the Houston Ship Channel to continue to thrive: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives commends Port Houston, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the countless project partners behind Project 11 for their commitment to bring forth this generation-defining project.
