117 HRES 712 IH: Expressing support for the recognition of the first Thursday of October as “U.S. Territories Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-10-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 712
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 8, 2021
Mr. Sablan
(for himself,
Mrs. Radewagen
,
Miss González-Colón
,
Mr. San Nicolas
, and
Ms. Plaskett
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the recognition of the first Thursday of October as
U.S. Territories Day
.
Whereas the United States territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands are of integral importance to the fabric of our Nation;
Whereas Chamorro, Refalúwasch, Samoan, Taino, Latino, Afro-Caribbean, and other cultures exist within the territories;
Whereas Americans living in the territories serve in the military at an exceptionally high rate relative to other States;
Whereas the territories are of vital strategic importance to the United States;
Whereas many Americans living in the 50 States are unaware of the existence of the territories;
Whereas many maps of the United States do not depict the United States territories;
Whereas complete civic education is necessary for the ongoing stewardship and defense of our democracy; and
Whereas the House of Representatives recognizes the first Thursday of each October as
U.S. Territories Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the recognition of
U.S. Territories Day
;
(2)
encourages educators across the country to set aside time on this day to teach students about the United States territories;
(3)
further encourages—
(A)
the President of the United States to issue a reciprocal Presidential proclamation to this resolution; and
(B)
the Senate to affirm a resolution reciprocal to this resolution; and
(4)
requests that the Smithsonian Institution make educational materials publicly available for educators which include—
(A)
maps of the United States that depict the United States territories alongside the 50 States;
(B)
materials to teach the history of cultural groups tied to the territories;
(C)
materials that highlight the contributions to America made by the people of the territories;
(D)
materials that tell the story of the sacrifices made by members of our Armed Forces who hail from the territories; and
(E)
materials that are appropriate for a variety of grade levels.
