117 HRES 1431 IH: Expressing profound sorrow over the death of Alexander Michael Odeh.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-10-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1431
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 14, 2022
Mr. Correa
(for himself and
Ms. Tlaib
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Expressing profound sorrow over the death of Alexander Michael Odeh.
Whereas Alexander Michael Odeh was born in Jifna, Palestine, on April 4, 1944, and resided in Orange County, California, for most of his adult life, including Santa Ana;
Whereas Alex Odeh was a peace activist who worked to promote civil liberties for Arab-Americans in the United States and for civil and human rights around the world;
Whereas Alex Odeh was also a published poet and a lecturer of Arabic language at Coastline College and California State University, Fullerton;
Whereas Alex Odeh was the Southern California Regional Director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) when, on October 11, 1985, he was killed when a pipe bomb exploded as he entered the ADC office in Santa Ana, California;
Whereas Alex Odeh is survived by his wife, Norma Odeh, and his three daughters, Helena Odeh, Samya Odeh, and Susan Odeh; and
Whereas those responsible for the act of domestic terrorism which killed Alex Odeh have yet to be brought to justice: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the House of Representatives acknowledges with profound sorrow the death of Alexander Michael Odeh, a victim of domestic terrorism;
(2)
the House of Representatives tenders its deep sympathy to the members of the family of the late Mr. Odeh and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in their bereavement;
(3)
the Clerk of the House of Representatives will communicate this resolution to the Senate and transmit a copy thereof to the family of the deceased; and
(4)
when the House of Representatives adjourns today, it adjourns as a further mark of respect to the memory of Mr. Odeh.
