117 HRES 1531 EH: Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 2617) to amend section 1115 of title 31, United States Code, to amend the description of how performance goals are achieved, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 4373) making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 1082) to prohibit the unauthorized sale of ride-hailing signage and study the incidence of fatal and non-fatal assaults in TNC and for-hire vehicles in order to enhance safety and save lives; and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-12-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1531
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
December 23, 2022
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 2617) to amend section 1115 of title 31, United States Code, to amend the description of how performance goals are achieved, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 4373) making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 1082) to prohibit the unauthorized sale of ride-hailing signage and study the incidence of fatal and non-fatal assaults in TNC and for-hire vehicles in order to enhance safety and save lives; and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 2617) to amend section 1115 of title 31, United States Code, to amend the description of how performance goals are achieved, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or her designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution, the House shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 4373) making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to have concurred in the Senate amendment.
3.
Senate Concurrent Resolution 51 is hereby adopted.
4.
House Resolution 366 is hereby adopted.
5.
Upon adoption of this resolution, the House shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1082) to prohibit the unauthorized sale of ride-hailing signage and study the incidence of fatal and non-fatal assaults in TNC and for-hire vehicles in order to enhance safety and save lives, with the Senate amendments thereto, and to have concurred in the Senate amendments.
6.
House Resolution 1382 is hereby adopted.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
