117 HRES 1204 EH: Providing for consideration of the Senate amendments to the House amendment to the bill (S. 2938) to designate the United States Courthouse and Federal Building located at 111 North Adams Street in Tallahassee, Florida, as the "Joseph Woodrow Hatchett United States Courthouse and Federal Building", and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the bill (S. 2089) to amend the Families First Coronavirus Response Act to extend child nutrition waiver authority, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 4346) making appropriations for Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-06-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1204
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
June 24, 2022
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the Senate amendments to the House amendment to the bill (S. 2938) to designate the United States Courthouse and Federal Building located at 111 North Adams Street in Tallahassee, Florida, as the "Joseph Woodrow Hatchett United States Courthouse and Federal Building", and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the bill (S. 2089) to amend the Families First Coronavirus Response Act to extend child nutrition waiver authority, and for other purposes; relating to consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 4346) making appropriations for Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (S. 2938) to designate the United States Courthouse and Federal Building located at 111 North Adams Street in Tallahassee, Florida, as the
Joseph Woodrow Hatchett United States Courthouse and Federal Building
, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendments to the House amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a single motion offered by the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary or his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendments to the House amendment. The Senate amendments and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from the Speaker’s table the bill (S. 2089) to amend the Families First Coronavirus Response Act to extend child nutrition waiver authority, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment to the House amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Education and Labor or his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment to the House amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and Labor or their respective designees. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution, the House shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 4346) making appropriations for Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to have concurred in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117–53.
4.
House Resolution 1132 is hereby adopted.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
