117 HRES 1120 IH: Recognizing “National Public Works Week”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1120
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 16, 2022
Ms. Craig
(for herself,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
, and
Ms. Titus
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Recognizing
National Public Works Week
.
Whereas public works professionals focus on infrastructure, facilities, and services that are of vital importance to sustainable and resilient communities and to the public health, high quality of life, and well-being of the United States of America;
Whereas such infrastructure, facilities, and services could not be provided without the dedicated efforts of public works professionals, who are engineers, managers, and employees of Federal, State, and local government and the private sector, and who are responsible for rebuilding, improving, and protecting our Nation’s transportation, water supply, water treatment and solid waste systems, public buildings, and other structures and facilities essential for our citizens;
Whereas public works professionals play a key role in helping the United States recover from the COVID–19 pandemic;
Whereas it is in the public interest for citizens, civic leaders, and children of the United States to gain knowledge of, and to maintain a progressive interest and understanding of, the importance of public works and public works programs in their respective communities; and
Whereas the week of May 15 through May 21, 2022, marks the 62nd annual
National Public Works Week
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports
National Public Works Week
and encourages the people of the United States to pay tribute to our public works professionals, engineers, managers, and employees and to recognize the substantial contributions they make to protecting our national health, safety, and quality of life.
