117 HRES 1410 IH: Condemning and censuring Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-09-29
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1410
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 29, 2022
Mr. Schneider
(for himself,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mrs. Lawrence
,
Ms. Wasserman Schultz
, and
Ms. Manning
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Condemning and censuring Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia.
Whereas on May 20, 2021, during an interview on Real America’s Voice network’s
The Water Cooler
, Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia compared proof of a COVID–19 vaccination to the Holocaust and said,
We can look back at a time in history where people were told to wear a gold star [sic] and they were definitely treated like second-class citizens, so much so that they were put in trains and taken to gas chambers in Nazi Germany and this is exactly the type of abuse that Nancy Pelosi is talking about.
;
Whereas on May 25, 2021, Representative Greene repeated the comparison in a tweet that said,
Vaccinated employees get a vaccination logo just like the Nazis forced Jewish people to wear a gold star [sic]. Vaccine passports & mask mandates create discrimination against unvaxxed people who trust their immune systems to a virus that is 99% survivable.
;
Whereas on May 25, 2021, Representative Greene posted a tweet about universities requiring students to be vaccinated that said,
It appears Nazi practices have already begun on our youth. Show your VAX papers or no in person class for you. This is exactly what I was saying about the gold star [sic].
;
Whereas on June 14, 2021, after visiting the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Representative Greene offered an apology and said,
There are words that I have said, remarks that I’ve made that I know are offensive, and for that I’d like to apologize.
;
Whereas on September 1, 2022, despite her earlier apology, Representative Greene posted a tweet correlating President Joe Biden to Adolf Hitler that said,
Joe Biden is Hitler. #NaziJoe has to go.
;
Whereas on September 1, 2022, Representative Greene posted another tweet that included doctored video to show President Biden speaking with audio of Hitler, swastikas in the background, and a mustache akin to that of Hitler;
Whereas Representative Greene’s repeated comments debase the memory of the 6,000,000 Jews murdered by the Nazis, the survivors of the Holocaust, and their families, as well as all those who fought and died defending democracy against Hitler and his evil;
Whereas the United States has recently experienced a dangerous rise in hate, racism, and violence directed at Jews as well as other racial, ethnic, and religious minorities;
Whereas Congress as a whole, and Members individually, have a duty to condemn rather than amplify hate, bigotry, and racism; and
Whereas Representative Greene’s intentional diminishment of the horrors of the Nazis, her repeated inappropriate comparisons to a genocide involving the systematic murder of 6,000,000 Jews, her demonstration that her June 2021 apology was insincere, and her callous refusal to refrain from her hateful rhetoric has brought shame on the House of Representatives and jeopardized its reputation and institutional integrity: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia be condemned and censured;
(2)
Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene forthwith present herself in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
