117 HRES 1474 IH: Recognizing the 75th anniversary of Everglades National Park.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-11-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1474
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 16, 2022
Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick
(for herself,
Mrs. Murphy of Florida
,
Ms. Salazar
,
Mr. Waltz
,
Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida
,
Mr. Carson
,
Mr. Soto
,
Ms. Wilson of Florida
,
Mr. Rutherford
, and
Mr. Donalds
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
, and in addition to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 75th anniversary of Everglades National Park.
Whereas Everglades National Park celebrates its 75th anniversary on December 6, 2022;
Whereas when President Harry S. Truman dedicated Everglades National Park on December 6, 1947, he stated:
Here is land, tranquil in its quiet beauty, serving not as the source of water, but as the last receiver of it. To its natural abundance we owe the spectacular plant and animal life that distinguishes this place from all others in our country
;
Whereas Marjory Stoneman Douglas gave the Everglades the name
River of Grass
stating,
There are no other Everglades in the world
;
Whereas Everglades National Park has been designated an International Biosphere Reserve, a World Heritage Site, and a Wetland of International Importance, in recognition of its significance to all the people of the world;
Whereas the Everglades ecosystem encompasses 3,000,000 acres of wetlands and is the largest subtropical wilderness in the United States featuring slow-moving freshwater that flows south from Lake Okeechobee through sawgrass and tree islands to the mangroves and seagrasses of Florida Bay;
Whereas Everglades National Park is home to rare and endangered species, such as the American crocodile, the Florida panther, and the West Indian manatee, and more than 350 species of birds, including the Great Egret, Wood Stork, Swallow-tailed Kite, and Roseate Spoonbill;
Whereas the Central and South Florida region is an international center for business, agriculture, and tourism, with a rapidly growing population of varying demographics, all of which are dependent on a sustainable framework for the water resources of the region to restore the Everglades ecosystem, provide adequate freshwater supplies, and promote a healthy and sustainable economy and overall quality of life;
Whereas the Everglades provides freshwater for 9,000,000 Floridians and countless tourists each year;
Whereas the Biscayne Aquifer is replenished by the flow of water through the Everglades, which provides drinking water to South Florida;
Whereas Everglades National Park is an essential component of a larger ecosystem restoration effort, the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, which has been described as the world’s largest ecosystem restoration project; and
Whereas this restoration effort must succeed in order to restore the natural Everglades ecosystem and ensure that the treasures of Everglades National Park can be passed on to our children and grandchildren: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the 75th anniversary of Everglades National Park; and
(2)
dedicates itself to the success of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan.
