117 HRES 1442 IH: Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the National Marine Sanctuary System.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-10-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1442
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 21, 2022
Mr. Huffman
(for himself,
Mr. Graves of Louisiana
,
Ms. Bonamici
,
Mr. Case
,
Mr. Panetta
,
Ms. Malliotakis
, and
Ms. Mace
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the National Marine Sanctuary System.
Whereas, on October 23, 1972, the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (
33 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.
) became law and ushered in a new era of ocean conservation;
Whereas the National Marine Sanctuary System today is a nationwide network that conserves spectacular ocean and Great Lakes waters;
Whereas communities across the Nation can nominate their most treasured places in marine and Great Lakes waters for consideration as national marine sanctuaries;
Whereas national marine sanctuaries protect biodiversity, safeguard extraordinary seascapes, historic shipwrecks, and sacred cultural seascapes, and provide abundant recreational opportunities;
Whereas the conservation of marine ecosystems is vital for healthy oceans and Great Lakes, addressing climate change, and sustaining productive coastal economies;
Whereas national marine sanctuaries support coastal communities and generate billions of dollars annually in local economies by providing American jobs, bolstering tourism and recreation, engaging businesses in stewardship, and driving the growth of the blue economy;
Whereas national marine sanctuaries connect people and communities through science, education, recreation, and stewardship that inspire community-based solutions that help individuals understand and protect the Nation’s most spectacular underwater habitats, wildlife, archaeological resources, and cultural seascapes;
Whereas national marine sanctuaries are living laboratories to conduct cooperative science and research to improve resource management and advance innovative public-private partnerships;
Whereas national marine sanctuaries can help make the ocean and Great Lakes more resilient by protecting ecosystems that sequester carbon, safeguarding coastal communities from flooding and storms, and protecting biodiversity;
Whereas the United States of America is a maritime nation, and the ocean and Great Lakes are central to the American way of life; and
Whereas engaging communities as stewards of these protected waters makes sanctuaries unique and provides a comprehensive, highly participatory approach to managing and conserving marine ecosystems and the Great Lakes for current and future generations: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes and celebrates the 50th anniversary of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (
33 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.
);
(2)
acknowledges the importance of national marine sanctuaries to supporting community resilience, protecting biodiversity, and increasing access to nature;
(3)
celebrates the ability of the National Marine Sanctuary System to protect nationally significant places in the ocean and Great Lakes;
(4)
calls on the Administration to partner with communities and find consensus to complete designations of new national marine sanctuaries; and
(5)
encourages Federal agencies to balance priorities and work together to support the priorities of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 when appropriate.
