117 HRES 973 EH: Providing for consideration of Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 2471) to measure the progress of post-disaster recovery and efforts to address corruption, governance, rule of law, and media freedoms in Haiti; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 75) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6968) to prohibit the importation of energy products of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7007) making emergency supplemental appropriations for coronavirus response and relief for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-03-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 973
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
March 9, 2022
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 2471) to measure the progress of post-disaster recovery and efforts to address corruption, governance, rule of law, and media freedoms in Haiti; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 75) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6968) to prohibit the importation of energy products of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7007) making emergency supplemental appropriations for coronavirus response and relief for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 2471) to measure the progress of post-disaster recovery and efforts to address corruption, governance, rule of law, and media freedoms in Haiti, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or her designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 117–35 modified by the amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion. The question of adoption of the motion shall be divided for a separate vote on all of the matter proposed to be inserted by the amendment of the House other than divisions B, C, F, X, and Z, and titles 2 and 3 of division N. The two portions of the divided question shall be considered in the order specified by the Chair. If either portion of the divided question fails of adoption, then the House shall be considered to have made no disposition of the Senate amendment.
2.
The chair of the Committee on Appropriations and the chair of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence may insert in the Congressional Record not later than March 11, 2022, such material as they may deem explanatory of the Senate amendment and the motion specified in the first section of this resolution.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 75) making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
4.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6968) to prohibit the importation of energy products of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
5.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7007) making emergency supplemental appropriations for coronavirus response and relief for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
6.
House Resolution 972 is laid on the table.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
