117 HRES 1529 EH: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 9640) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for examination and disclosure with respect to Presidential income tax returns; providing for consideration of the bill (S. 1942) to standardize the designation of National Heritage Areas, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-12-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
I
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1529
In the House of Representatives, U. S.,
December 21, 2022
RESOLUTION
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 9640) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for examination and disclosure with respect to Presidential income tax returns; providing for consideration of the bill (S. 1942) to standardize the designation of National Heritage Areas, and for other purposes; and for other purposes.
That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 9640) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for examination and disclosure with respect to Presidential income tax returns. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (S. 1942) to standardize the designation of National Heritage Areas, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
3.
House Resolution 693 is hereby adopted.
4.
House Resolution 1434 is hereby adopted.
5.
(a)
At any time through the legislative day of Friday, December 23, 2022, the Speaker may entertain motions offered by the Majority Leader or a designee that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV with respect to multiple measures described in subsection (b), and the Chair shall put the question on any such motion without debate or intervening motion.
(b)
A measure referred to in subsection (a) includes any measure that was the object of a motion to suspend the rules on the legislative day of December 21, 2022, December 22, 2022, or December 23, 2022, in the form as so offered, on which the yeas and nays were ordered and further proceedings postponed pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX.
(c)
Upon the offering of a motion pursuant to subsection (a) concerning multiple measures, the ordering of the yeas and nays on postponed motions to suspend the rules with respect to such measures is vacated to the end that all such motions are considered as withdrawn.
6.
On any legislative day of the second session of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress after December 22, 2022, the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered as approved.
7.
The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 6 of this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
8.
Each day during the period addressed by section 6 of this resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1546
).
9.
Each day during the period addressed by section 6 of this resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule XIII.
10.
Each day during the period addressed by section 6 of this resolution shall not constitute a calendar or legislative day for purposes of clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII.
Cheryl L. Johnson,
Clerk.
