117 HRES 1138 IH: Expressing support for the designation of September 2022 as “National Leading Entertainment and Arts through Diversity Month” or “National LEAD Month”, and empowering underrepresented communities to take the lead within the entertainment industry.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1138
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 24, 2022
Ms. Clarke of New York
(for herself,
Ms. Meng
,
Ms. Barragán
,
Mr. Jeffries
,
Ms. Chu
,
Mr. Nadler
,
Ms. Titus
,
Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York
,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Ms. Jacobs of California
, and
Ms. Adams
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of September 2022 as
National Leading Entertainment and Arts through Diversity Month
or
National LEAD Month
, and empowering underrepresented communities to take the lead within the entertainment industry.
Whereas there should be more minority representation on and off the screen, and in main decision making roles that advance equity across industries;
Whereas marginalized communities are defined as communities who experience discrimination and exclusion on the basis of race, gender, sexual orientation or identity, age, and ability;
Whereas, oftentimes, these sectors are erased from conversations, yet their distinctive perspectives and lived experiences become the basis for more authentic storytelling;
Whereas women only make up roughly 20 percent of directors and 26 percent of screenwriters;
Whereas all minority groups make up 25 percent of directors and 25 percent of screenwriters;
Whereas White film directors are more than twice as likely as minority directors to helm a film with a budget of $100,000,000 or more;
Whereas roughly 18 percent of films produced by major studios feature LGBT+ stories;
Whereas women over 30 make up 29 percent of female characters and women over 40 make up 16 percent of female characters;
Whereas 12 percent of television series characters are disabled, and most portrayals are negative;
Whereas it is critical to recognize the social and cultural impact of diversity on television and the ramifications of underrepresentation;
Whereas the importance of allyship is essential to promote inclusion across the entertainment industry as dominant groups have greater potential to help uplift their minority counterparts;
Whereas allyship is defined as a lifelong process in which a member in a group of privilege and power actively seeks to unlearn misconceptions of a marginalized group in order to build relationships centered around trust, consistency, and accountability;
Whereas allyship campaigns and programs are pivotal to the success of diversity programs, and yet are currently undervalued in diversity, equity, and inclusion training; and
Whereas adequate representation on television has been overlooked for far too long, and, regardless of industry, we must remain dedicated to inclusion: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
expresses support for the designation of
National Leading Entertainment and Arts through Diversity Month
;
(2)
supports the purposes and ideals of National Leading Entertainment and Arts through Diversity Month, which emphasizes the importance of increased representation across the industry;
(3)
promotes efforts to increase allyship awareness campaigns among individuals and organizations in the United States, specifically within the entertainment industry;
(4)
champions diversity, equity, and inclusion programs, including but not limited to, implicit-bias training, common ground training, facilitated conversation, cultural sensitivity, community engagement, and antioppression training in the entertainment industry; and
(5)
encourages the people of the United States to observe National Leading Entertainment and Arts through Diversity Month with appropriate awareness programs and campaigns for underrepresented communities in the entertainment industry.
