SECTION 1. Except as provided in section 2 hereof, the Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the Director, (a) shall determine, with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , what statistical information shall be provided in response to official requests received by   from any intergovernmental organization of which this country is a member, and (b) shall determine which   executive agency or agencies shall prepare the statistical information thus to be provided. The statistical information so prepared shall be transmitted to the requesting intergovernmental organization through established channels by the Secretary of state or by any   executive agency now or hereafter authorized by the Secretary of   to transmit such information.

SECTION 2. (a)   and Financial Problems, hereinafter referred to as  , shall determine, after consultation with the Director, what information is essential in order that   may comply with official requests for information received from   or  .

(b) The Director shall determine which   executive agency or agencies shall collect or make available information found essential under section 2(a) hereof.

(c) In the collection of information pursuant to a determination made by the Director under section 2(b) hereof in response to a request under article  , section 5, of the Articles of Agreement of  , the authority conferred on the President by section 8 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to require any person to furnish such information, by subpoena or otherwise, may be exercised by each of the following-named agencies:

  of   of  

 

 

 

(d) The information collected or made available under section 2 of this order shall be submitted to   for review and for presentation to the said  .

(e) As used in this order, the word "person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, or association.

SECTION 3. The Director's determination of any matter under section 1 or section 2(b) of this order shall be made after consulting appropriate   executive agencies and giving due consideration to any responsibility now exercised by any of them in relation to an intergovernmental organization.

SECTION 4. This order shall not be construed to authorize the Director or   to provide, or to require any   executive agency to provide, to an intergovernmental organization (a) information during any period of time when the agency having primary responsibility for security of the specified information declares that it must be withheld from the intergovernmental organization in the interest of military security, or (b) information which any   executive agency is required by law to maintain on a confidential basis.

SECTION 5. The Director and   are authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out their respective responsibilities under this order.

SECTION 6. To the extent that this order conflicts with any previous   order, the provisions of this order shall control.
