By the virtue of the authority vested in me by the   and the statues, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. I hereby designate  , Judge of  ,  , Judge of  ,     and Captain  , (S),  , O86622, as the members, and   as the alternate member, of one of the several military tribunals established by the Military Governor of   of Occupation within   pursuant to the quadripartite agreement of  , enacted  , as   10, and pursuant to the articles 10 and 11 of the Charter of  , which   was established by  ,  ,   and  , and  , for the trial and punishment of major war criminals of  . Such members and alternate member may, at the direction of the Military Governor of   Occupation, serve on any of the several military tribunals above mentioned.

2. The functions of these Tribunals being essentially military, Captain   will, during the tenure of this assignment, be subject to   orders, through    , and will retain his status as an officer on the active list of  .

3. The members and the alternate member herein designated shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of War and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes, except that Captain   shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses to which he may be entitled by reason of his military rank and service as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes.

4. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of War, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of the   are authorized to provide appropriate assistance to the members and the alternate member herein designated in the performance of their duties and may assign or detail such personnel under their respective jurisdictions, including members of the armed forces, as may be requested for the purpose. Personnel so assigned or detailed shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of   and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes, except that personnel assigned or detailed from the   shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses to which they may be entitled by reason of their military rank and service and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes.
