By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 32 and 45 of   Tenant Act, approved   (50 Stat. 525, 530; 7 U.S.C.  ), and upon recommendation of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  , it is ordered as follows:

1. Executive  . 7908 of  , transferring certain lands to the Secretary of Agriculture for use, administration, and disposition under the provisions of   of   Tenant Act and the related provisions of Title IV thereof, as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby further amended by substituting for the words " ", occurring in the first proviso thereof, the words " ", and by adding thereto immediately after the first proviso thereof the following proviso:

"Provided further, That all lands acquired in exchange for lands heretofore or hereafter set apart and reserved from the public domain for the purpose stated shall be subject to all the provisions and conditions of Title III of   Tenant Act, as amended, and the related provisions of Title IV thereof."

2. The introductory paragraph of section 1 of Executive Order No.   of March  , transferring certain lands from   to   and withdrawing certain lands for the use of  , is hereby amended to read as follows:

"Subject to valid existing rights, jurisdiction over all lands in the following-described areas acquired or in process of acquisition under Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, or transferred by Executive Order No. 7908 of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , to the Secretary of Agriculture for use, administration and disposition in accordance with the provisions of the said Act, together with waters or water rights, improvements, and structures acquired or constructed in connection with the use and administration of said lands, is hereby transferred to  , and the lands shall be administered, and shall be subject to exchange, under the Taylor Grazing Act, 48 Stat.   (43 U.S.C. 315), as amended: Provided, That the transfer of jurisdiction over those lands that are in process of acquisition shall take effect upon the completion of acquisition thereof by the Secretary of Agriculture."
