By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including the act of  , as amended, entitled "An Act further To Promote the Defense of  , and for Other Purposes" (55 Stat. 31), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. All functions with respect to the maintenance of accounts and other fiscal records relating to lend-lease and reverse lend-lease matters under the said act of   (hereinafter referred to as the act), are transferred from   to   and shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of the  .   shall continue to administer all other functions relating to the administration of the act which are now under the jurisdiction of that  .

2. In carrying out the purposes and provisions of paragraph 1 of this order,  :

(a) Shall perform all necessary fiscal functions and maintain all necessary fiscal records and prepare all required reports pertaining to the act, except that, until such date as the Director of   shall determine, the Secretary of   shall prepare for the President the reports required under section 5 (b) of the act.

(b) Shall furnish   with such information and reports concerning lend-lease operations as may be requested by such  , including information as to the status of funds.

(c) In accordance with the request of the Secretary of  , shall make additional allocations to procurement agencies of the Government of available funds, and shall bill, collect, and account for funds from foreign governments and others, under the act.

(d) After consultation with  , shall revoke excess allocations in the hands of procurement agencies and return such funds to the master account.

(e)   act through the personnel transferred hereunder or through such other personnel of   as the Secretary of the   may designate.

3. There is transferred to   so much as the Director of   shall determine to relate primarily to the functions transferred by this order of the records, personnel, and property of   and of the unexpended balances of the funds of   available or to be made available for use in connection with the administration of the functions transferred by this order.

4.   shall provide   with two certified copies of all agreements related to lend-lease settlements and with two copies of all other documents and correspondence which in any way affect lend-lease accounting records.

5. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   shall from time to time jointly recommend to the Director of   amounts by which lend-lease appropriations may be rescinded or placed in reserve.

6. All prior regulations, rulings, and directives relating to the functions transferred by this order shall remain in effect except as hereafter amended or revoked by the Secretary of the  . To the extent authorized by law, the Secretary of the   may issue such additional regulations and instructions as he may deem necessary to carry out this order.

7. All provisions of prior Executive orders and of prior instructions to any Federal agency in conflict with this order are amended accordingly.

8. This order shall become effective at the close of business of  .
