By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the  , and as President and as Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. In accordance with the responsibilities undertaken by   at the Crimea Conference in   to assist the people in any   liberated state in securing the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people, and in response to the invitation extended to   and other   by  , I appoint   of  , effective as of  , as my representative to head   group which will participate with representatives of other   in observing the forthcoming elections in  .

2. The   named herein is authorized to select and recommend to the President or to the Secretary of   or the Secretary of War necessary personnel to assist in the performance of his duties hereunder. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of War are authorized to assist the   named herein in the performance of his duties hereunder, and to employ such personnel and make such expenditures, within the limits of appropriate appropriations now or hereafter available for the purpose, as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this order, and the Secretary of   may make available, assign, or detail for duty with the   named herein such members of the military forces, not exceeding five hundred in number, and other personnel as may be requested for such purposes.

3. The   named herein shall have the personal rank of Ambassador and shall receive such compensation and allowance for expenses as may be authorized by the Secretary of  . Other necessary personnel employed to assist the   named herein in the performance of his duties shall likewise receive such compensation and allowance for expenses as may appropriately be authorized by the Secretary of   or the Secretary of War: Provided, however, That any personnel now in the employ of the Government shall serve without additional compensation but shall receive such allowance for expenses as may be authorized by the Secretary of   or the Secretary of War.

4. The   named herein is authorized to cooperate with, and receive the assistance of, any foreign Government to the extent deemed necessary by him to accomplish the purposes of this order.
