By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat. 999), section 202 of the Revised Statutes (5 U.S.C. 156), the act of  , 46 Stat. 818 (5 U.S.C. 118a), section 204 of  ,   (Public Law 491, 80th  .), and section 302 of   of   (Public Law 402, 80th  .), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to exercise the following-described statutory powers of the President:

(a) The authority vested in the President by section 901 of the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat.  ) to prescribe regulations governing the granting of (1) allowances, wherever Government-owned or rented quarters are not available, for living quarters, heat, light, fuel, gas, and electricity, including allowances for the cost of lodging at temporary quarters, authorized by paragraph (1) of the said section; (2) cost-of-living allowances authorized by paragraph (2) of the said section; and (3) allowances in order to provide for the proper representation of   by officers and employees of  , authorized by paragraph (3) of the said section.

(b) The authority vested in the President by section 903 of the Foreign Service Act of   (60 Stat.  ) to prescribe rules and regulations governing the manner in which the allowances and allotments authorized by sections 901 and 902 of the said act shall be accounted for to the Secretary of  .

(c) The authority vested in the President by the act of  , 46 Stat. 818 (5 U.S.C. 118a), to approve regulations prescribed by heads of departments with respect to (1) furnishing civilian officers and employees of the Government having permanent station in a foreign country, without cost to them, living quarters, including heat, fuel, and light, in Government-owned or rented buildings, and (2) allowances granted such officers and employees where such living quarters are not available: Provided, that with respect to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of   such authority of the President shall be exercised by the Director of  .

(d) The authority vested in the President by section 204 of  ,   (Public Law 491, 80th  .), and by section 302 of   of   (Public Law 402, 80th  .) to prescribe, with respect to civilian officers and employees of the Government, regulations governing living-quarters allowances, cost-of-living allowances, and representation allowances in accordance with, or similar to such allowances authorized by the said act of  , or the said section 901 of the Foreign Service Act of  .

2. The Secretary of   and the Director of   may exercise the authority herein delegated to them without the necessity of any signature, approval, ratification, or other act of the President; and all officers, officials, and employees of  , including disbursing, accounting, and auditing officers, shall give the same effect to any act of the Secretary or Director hereunder as if done by the President.

3. (a) Existing rules and regulations pertaining to the allowances and allotments referred to in this order shall remain in effect until superseded by action taken pursuant to this order.

(b) Executive Order No. 9870 of  , and Executive Order No. 9982 of  , are hereby revoked: Provided, that existing rules and regulations prescribed pursuant to such orders shall remain in effect until superseded as provided in paragraph 3(a) hereof.

4. This order, and such of the regulations prescribed or approved by the Secretary of   and the Director of   thereunder as the Secretary and Director shall res0ectively determine, shall be published in  .
