WHEREAS section 28 of the Organic Act of  , approved   (Public Law 630, 81st  ), reads:

"(a) The title to all property, real and personal, owned by   and employed by the naval government of   in the administration of the civil affairs of the inhabitants of  , including automotive and other equipment, tools and machinery, water and sewerage facilities, bus lines and other utilities, hospitals, schools, and other buildings, shall be transferred to the government of   within   after the date of enactment of this Act.

"(b) All other property, real and personal, owned by   in  , not reserved by the President of   within   after the date of enactment of this Act, is hereby placed under the control of the government of  , to be administered for the benefit of the people of  , and the legislature shall have authority, subject to such limitations as may be imposed upon its acts by this Act or subsequent Act of the  , to legislate with respect to such property, real and personal, in such manner as it may deem desirable.

"(c) All property owned by   in  , the title to which is not transferred to the government of   by subsection (a) hereof, or which is not placed under the control of the government of   by subsection (b) hereof, is transferred to the administration supervision of the head of the department or agency designated by the President under section 3 of this Act, except as the President may from time to time otherwise prescribe: Provided, That the head of such department or agency shall be authorized to lease or to sell, on such terms as he may deem in the public interest, any property, real and personal, of   under his administrative supervision in   not needed for public purposes."

WHEREAS certain hereinafter-described real and personal property of   in   is required for the respective uses of  ,  ,  , and  , and it has been mutually agreed that   shall act on behalf of  ,  , and   with respect to their requirements as to such property;

WHEREAS certain other hereinafter described real property of   in   has been selected by the Secretary of the   for transfer or sale pursuant to the act of  , 59 Stat. 584, to persons in replacement of lands acquired for military or naval purposes in  , and such property should remain available for disposition by the Secretary of the   in his discretion under section 28(c) of the said Organic Act of  ; and

WHEREAS certain other hereinafter-described personal property of   in   should remain available for the respective needs of  ,  ,  ,  , and other agencies of  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 28 of the Organic Act of  , and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. The following-described real and personal property of   in   is hereby reserved to   and placed under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the  : Provided, That the Secretary of the   shall transfer such portions of such property to  ,  , and   as may be required for their respective purposes:

(a) All of that real property in   situated within the perimeter areas defined in the following-designated condemnation proceedings in  , being the same property quitclaimed by   to   by deed dated  , and filed for record with   of   on   (Presentation No.  ):

(b) The road system and utilities systems described in the said deed between   and   dated  .

(c) The following-described areas:  ;  ;  ; ?Area Number 35 Culverts;  ; 36 acres of Camp Witek;  ;  ,  , Land Square 20; the Power Sub-station located on Lot 266, Municipality of   adjacent to   of  .

(d) Lots   and 2306-1 in  .

(e) All personal property relating to or used in connection with any of the above-described real property.

2. The following-described real property of   in   is hereby reserved to   and transferred to the administrative supervision of the Secretary of the  , and shall be available for disposition by the Secretary of the   in his discretion under section 28(c) of the said Organic Act of Guam:

All of those lands which have been selected by the Secretary of the navy for transfer or sale pursuant to the act of  , 59 Stat. 584, to persons in replacement of lands acquired for military or naval purposes in  , a list and description of such lands being on file in  .

3. In addition to the personal property described in paragraph 1(e) hereof, there is hereby reserved to   all personal property of   in  , except that which is transferred to the government o f   by or pursuant to section 28(a) of the Organic Act of  , which on the date of this order is in the custody or control of  ,  ,  ,  , or any other department or agency of  ; and all such personal property shall remain in the custody and control of the department or agency having custody and control thereof on the date of this order.
