By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, including Title I of the First War Powers Act,  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, all functions, agencies, officers, employees, records, property, and funds of  , established by Executive Order 9139 of  , are hereby transferred to   and shall be administered under the supervision, direction, and control of the Secretary of  .

(b) All of the functions of the Chairman of  , exclusive of so much thereof as relates to the functions of   transferred by paragraph 5 of this order, are transferred to the Secretary of  .

(c)   is hereby terminated.

(d) In order to maintain the essential coordination of public employment service and unemployment compensation functions and to avoid any necessity for establishing duplicate public employment office facilities,   is directed to provide for making available to agencies charged with the administration of unemployment compensation laws such services, information, and facilities by   as the Secretary of   shall find not inconsistent with the purposes of this order. To the extent that   funds under the jurisdiction of   are involved in the effectuation of this section, services, information, and facilities shall be furnished only when, and to the extent that   shall approve.

2. (a)  , established by Executive Order 9017 of  , and all of its functions, officers, employees, records, property, and funds are hereby transferred to   and shall, except as otherwise provided in this order, be administered under the supervision, direction, and control of the Secretary of  .

(b)   in   shall be in all respects subject to and governed by such policies, consistent with law, as the Secretary of   shall prescribe; and so much of the functions of the   as is required to effectuate this subsection is transferred to the Secretary of  . The provisions of this section notwithstanding, decisions made by   in individual cases brought before it pursuant to law shall not be subject to modification by the Secretary of   but shall have the same degree of finality as existed prior to the issuance of this order.

3. (a)  , established by section 301 of   of  , and all of its functions, officers, employees, records, property, and funds are hereby transferred to   and shall be administered under the supervision, direction, and control of the Secretary of  .

(b) The functions of the Director of War Mobilization and Reconversion relating to   are hereby transferred to the Secretary of  .

4. (a) The Secretary of   may perform the functions transferred to him by this order through such officials, persons, or agencies and in such manner as he shall determine.

(b)   and all functions in   relating to employment service,   and its functions, and   and its functions shall be administered as organizational entities within  . All other functions transferred to   by this order shall be administered, and the internal staff and service activities relating to the aforesaid agencies may be administered, by such agencies in   as the Secretary may designate or establish for the purpose.

5. The functions of   of   and the functions of the Chairman of   with respect thereto are hereby transferred to  . There shall be transferred to  , for use in connection with such functions, all of the personnel of  , and so much of the other personnel of   and so much of the records, property, and funds of   as the Director of   shall determine to relate primarily to  .

6. All prior regulations, rulings, and other directives relating to any agency or function transferred by this order shall remain in effect except insofar as they are in conflict with this order or are hereafter amended under proper authority.

7. Such further measures and dispositions as may be determined by the Director of   to be necessary to effectuate the transfer or redistribution of the functions provided for in this order shall be carried out in such manner as the Director may direct and by such agencies as he may designate.

8. All provisions of prior Executive orders which are in conflict with this order are amended accordingly; provided that no functions or duties of any agency or officer not expressly transferred hereunder shall be deemed to have been transferred or modified by this order.
