By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , and in order to provide for the fullest development and coordination of the aviation policies and activities of the   agencies, and in the interest of the internal management of the Government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ) which shall have as members one representative from each of the following-named agencies (hereinafter referred to as the participating agencies):  ,  , and   and  . The members shall be designated by the respective heads of the participating agencies. The President shall name one of the members as the Chairman of  . The Director of   shall designate a representative of the   as a non-voting member of the  .

(b) Each officer or body authorized under subparagraph 1(a) hereof to designate a member of the   shall also designate one or more alternate members, as may be necessary.

(c) The   shall establish procedures to provide for participation, including participation in voting, by a representative of any agency not named in subparagraph 1 (a) hereof in connection with such aviation matters as are of substantial interest to that agency.

2. The   shall examine aviation problems and development affecting more than one participating agency; develop and recommend integrated policies to be carried out and actions to be taken by the participating agencies or by any other Government agency charged with responsibility in the aviation field; and, to the extent permitted by law, coordinate the aviation activities of such agencies expect activities relating to the exercise of quasi-judicial functions.

3. The   shall consult with   interagency boards and committees concerned in any manner with aviation activities; and consult with the representatives of   to   or to the permanent successor thereof and recommend to   general policy directives and instructions for the guidance of the said representatives.

4. The  , after obtaining the views of the head of each agency concerned, shall submit to the president, together with the said views, (a) such of the  's recommendations on aviation policies as require the attention of the President by reason of their character or importance, (b) those important aviation questions the disposition of which is prevented by the inability of the agencies concerned to agree, (c) an   report of the  's activities during  , to be submitted not   of the next succeeding  , and (d) such interim reports as may be necessary or desirable.
