Executive Order  —Additional Measures With Respect to    and  )
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of   Resolution No. 757 of  , No. 787 of  , and No. 820 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of    and  ) and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.   and expanded in Executive Order No.   and No.  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1. Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:

(a)

All property and interests in property of all commercial, industrial, or public utility undertakings or entities organized or located in    and  ), including, without limitation, the property and interests in property of entities (wherever organized or located) owned or controlled by such undertakings or entities, that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked;

(b)

All expenses incident to the blocking and maintenance of property blocked under Executive  .  ,   or this order shall be charged to the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds. Such property may also be sold or liquidated and the proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner;

(c)

All vessels, freight vehicles, rolling stock, aircraft and cargo that are within or hereafter come within   and are not subject to blocking under Executive  .  ,   or this order, but which are suspected of a violation of   Resolution Nos. 713, 757, 787 or 820, shall be detained pending investigation and, upon a determination by the Secretary of the   that they have been in violation of any of these resolutions, shall be blocked. Such blocked conveyances and cargo may also be sold or liquidated and the proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner;

(d)

No vessel registered in   or owned or controlled by   persons, other than a   naval vessel, may enter the territorial waters of    and  ); and

(e) Any dealing by a   person relating to the importation from, exportation to, or transshipment through   in   and those areas of   under the control of   forces, or activity of any kind that promotes or is intended to promote such dealing, is prohibited.

 . 2. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 3. Nothing in this order shall apply to activities related to  ,    , and  .

 . 4. The definitions contained in section 5 of Executive Order No.   apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6. This order shall not affect the provisions of licenses and authorizations issued pursuant to Executive  .     and in force on the effective date of this order, except as such licenses or authorization may hereafter be terminated, modified or suspended by the issuing federal agency.

 . 7. (a) This order shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time,  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
