Executive Order  —    and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , in affirmation of the unique political and legal relationship of   with tribal governments, and in recognition of the unique educational and culturally related academic needs of   and   students, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Goals.   has a special, historic responsibility for the education of     and   students. Improving educational achievement and academic progress for     and   students is vital to the national goal of preparing every student for responsible citizenship, continued learning, and productive employment.   is committed to improving the academic performance and reducing the dropout rate of     and   students. To help fulfill this commitment in a manner consistent with tribal traditions and cultures, Federal agencies need to focus special attention on six goals: (1) improving reading and mathematics; (2) increasing high school completion and postsecondary attendance rates; (3) reducing the influence of long-standing factors that impede educational performance, such as poverty and substance abuse; (4) creating strong, safe, and drug-free school environ-ments; (5) improving science education; and (6) expanding the use of educational technology.

 . 2. Strategy. In order to meet the six goals of this order, a comprehensive Federal response is needed to address the fragmentation of government services available to     and   students and the complexity of inter-governmental relationships affecting the education of those students. The purpose of the   activities described in this order is to develop a long-term, comprehensive   education policy that will accomplish those goals.

(a) Interagency Task Force. There is established an   on     and   (Task Force) to oversee the planning and implementation of this order. The Task Force shall confer with   on Indian Education ( ) in carrying out activities under this order. The Task Force shall consult with representatives of     and   tribes and organizations, including   (NIEA) and   ( ), to gather advice on implementation of the activities called for in this order.

(b) Composition of  . (1) The membership of the Task Force shall include representatives of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy, and  , as well as  ,  , and  . With the agreement of   and the  , other agencies may participate in the activities of  .

(2) Within   of the date of this order, the head of each participating agency shall designate a senior official who is responsible for management or program administration to serve as a member of  . The official shall report directly to the agency head on the agency's activities under this order.

(3) The Assistant Secretary for   and the Assistant Secretary for   of   shall co-chair the Task Force.

(c) Interagency plan. The Task Force shall, within   of the date of this order, develop a   interagency plan with recommendations identifying initiatives, strategies, and ideas for future interagency action supportive of the goals of this order.

(d) Agency participation. To the extent consistent with law and agency priorities, each participating agency shall adopt and implement strategies to maximize the availability of the agency's education-related programs, activities, resources, information, and technical assistance to     and   students. In keeping with the spirit of   of  , on Government-to-Government Relations with   Tribal Governments and Executive Order   of  , each participating agency shall consult with tribal governments on their education-related needs and priorities, and on how the agency can better accomplish the goals of this order. Within  , each participating agency shall report to   regarding the strategies it has developed to ensure such consultation.

(e) Interagency resource guide. The Task Force shall identify, within participating Federal agencies, all education-related programs and resources that support the goals of this order. Within  ,  , in conjunction with  , shall develop, publish, and widely distribute a guide that describes those programs and resources and how     and   can benefit from them.

(f) Research. The Secretary of  , through   and  , and in consultation with   and participating agencies, shall develop and implement a comprehensive Federal research agenda to:

(1) establish baseline data on academic achievement and retention of     and   students in order to monitor improvements;

(2) evaluate promising practices used with those students; and

(3) evaluate the role of native language and culture in the development of educational strategies. Within  , the Secretary of   shall submit the research agenda, including proposed timelines, to  .

(g) Comprehensive Federal   education policy.

(1) The Task Force shall, within   of this order, develop a comprehensive   education policy to support the accomplishment of the goals of this order. The policy shall be designed to:

(A) improve Federal interagency cooperation;

(B) promote intergovernmental collaboration; and

(C) assist tribal governments in meeting the unique educational needs of their children, including the need to preserve, revitalize, and use native languages and cultural traditions.

(2) In developing the policy, the Task Force shall consider ideas in   proposal developed by the NIEA and the  .

(3) The Task Force shall develop recommendations to implement the policy, including ideas for future interagency action.

(4) As appropriate, participating agencies may develop memoranda of agreement with one another to enable and enhance the ability of tribes and schools to provide, and to coordinate the delivery of, Federal, tribal,  , and local resources and services, including social and health-related services, to meet the educational needs of     and   students.

(h) Reports. The task Force co-chairs shall submit the comprehensive   education policy, and report   on the agencies' activities, accomplishments, and progress toward meeting the goals of this order, to the Director of  .

 . 3. Regional partnership forums.   and the  , in collaboration with  , tribal,  , and local government representatives, shall jointly convene, within  , a series of regional forums to identify promising practices and approaches on how to share information, provide assistance to schools, develop partnerships, and coordinate intergovernmental strategies supportive of accomplishing the goals of this order.   and the   shall submit a report on the forums to the Task force, which may include recommendations relating to intergovernmental relations.

 . 4. School pilot sites.   and the   shall identify a reasonable number of schools funded by   (BIA) and public schools that can serve as a model for schools with     and   students, and provide them with comprehensive technical assistance in support of the goals of this order. A special team of technical assistance providers, including   staff, shall provide assistance to these schools. Special attention shall be given, where appropriate, to assistance in implementing comprehensive school reform demonstration programs that meet the criteria for those programs established by  ,  , and  , and  ,   (Public Law 105-78), and to providing comprehensive service delivery that connects and uses diverse Federal agency resources. The team shall disseminate effective and promising practices of the school pilot sites to other local educational agencies. The team shall report to   on its accomplishments and its recommendations for improving technical support to local educational agencies and schools funded by the  .

 . 5. Administration.   shall provide appropriate administrative services and staff support to  . With the consent of  , other participating agencies may provide administrative support to  , consistent with their statutory authority, and may detail agency employees to  , to the extent permitted by law.

 . 6. Termination.   established under section 2 of this order shall terminate not   from the date of this order.

 . 7. General provisions. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies or instrumen-talities, its officers or employees, or any other person. This order is not intended to preclude, supersede, replace, or otherwise dilute any other Executive order relating to     and   education.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
