Executive Order 13185—To Strengthen  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to keep   research partnership strong, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Principles of  . The partnership in science and technology that has evolved between   and   universities has yielded benefits that are vital to each. It continues to prove exceptionally productive, successfully promoting the discovery of knowledge, stimulating technological innovation, improving the quality of life, educating and training the next generation of scientists and engineers, and contributing to  ’s economic prosperity and national security. In order to reaffirm and strengthen this partnership, this order sets forth the following guiding and operating principles that are fully described in the     report, "Renewing the Government-University Partnership." These principles shall provide the framework for the development and analysis of all future Federal policies, rules, and regulations for   research partnership.

(a)

The guiding principles that shall govern interactions between   and universities that perform research are:

(1)

Research is an investment in the future;

(2)

The integration of research and education is vital;

(3)

Excellence is promoted when investments are guided by  ; and

(4) Research must be conducted with integrity.

(b)

The operating principles that shall assist agencies, universities, individual researchers, and auditing and regulatory bodies in implementing the guiding principles are:

(1)

Agency cost-sharing policies and practices must be transparent;

(2)

Partners should respect the merit review process;

(3)

Agencies and universities should manage research in a cost-efficient manner;

(4) Accountability and accounting are not the same;

(5)

The benefits of simplicity in policies and practices should be weighed against the costs;

(6) Change should be justified by need and the process made transparent.

(c)

Each executive branch department or agency that supports research at universities shall regularly review its existing policies and procedures to ensure that they meet the spirit and intent of the guiding and operating principles stated above.

 . 2.   ( ) Review of  . (a) The  , in conjunction with  , shall conduct a regular review of   research partnership and prepare a report on the status of the partnership. The   should receive input from all departments or agencies that have a major impact on   partnership through their support of research and education, policy making, regulatory activities, and research administra tion. In addition,   may seek the input of   and  , as well as other stakeholders, such as   and local governments, industry,  , and  .

(b) The purpose of the review and the report is to determine the overall health of   research partnership, being mindful of the guiding and operating principles stated above. The report should include recommendations on how to improve the   partnership.

(c) The Director of   shall deliver the report to the President.

 . 3.  . This order does not create any enforceable rights against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .
