Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of   Resolution 1127 of  , and   of September 29, 1997, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of   ( ) and the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, all   offices located in   shall be immediately and completely closed.

 . 2. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the following are prohibited:

(a) the sale, supply, or making available in any form, by   persons or from   or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of any aircraft or aircraft components, regardless of origin:

(i) to  ; or

(ii) to the territory of   other than through a point of entry specified pursuant to section 4 of this order;

(b) the insurance, engineering, or servicing by   persons or from   of any aircraft owned or controlled by  ;

(c) the granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly   if the aircraft, as part of the same flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or has taken off from a place in the territory of   other than one specified pursuant to section 4 of this order;

(d) the provision or making available by   persons or from   of engineering and maintenance servicing, the certification of airworthiness, the payment of new claims against existing insurance contracts, or the provision, renewal, or making available of direct insurance with respect to:

(i) any aircraft registered in   other than those specified pursuant to section 4 of this order; or

(ii) any aircraft that entered the territory of   other than through a point of entry specified pursuant to section 4 of this order;

(e) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the law of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term " " includes:

(i) the Uniao Nacional para a   ( ), known in English as  ;"

(ii) the   Armadas para a   (FALA), known in English as  ;" and

(iii) any person acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, including   (CEDA).

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and, as appropriate, other agencies, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the specification of places, points of entry, and aircraft registered in   for purposes of section 2(a), (c), and (d) of this order, the authorization in appropriate cases of medical emergency flights or flights of aircraft carrying food, medicine, or supplies for essential humanitarian needs, and the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.

 . 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:57 a.m.,  ]
