Executive Order  —Providing Compensation to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  ,   of 2000 (Public Law 106-398, the "Act"), and to allocate the responsibilities imposed by that legislation and to provide for further legislative efforts, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. Since World War II, hundreds of thousands of men and women have served their   in building its nuclear defense. In the course of their work, they overcame previously unimagined scientific and technical challenges. Thousands of these courageous  , however, paid a high price for their service, developing disabling or fatal illnesses as a result of exposure to beryllium, ionizing radiation, and other hazards unique to nuclear weapons production and testing. Too often, these workers were neither adequately protected from, nor informed of, the occupational hazards to which they were exposed.

Existing workers’ compensation programs have failed to provide for the needs of these workers and their families. Federal workers’ compensation programs have generally not included these workers. Further, because of long latency periods, the uniqueness of the hazards to which they were exposed, and inadequate exposure data, many of these individuals have been unable to obtain   workers’ compensation benefits. This problem has been exacerbated by the past policy of   ( ) and its predecessors of encouraging and assisting   contractors in opposing the claims of workers who sought those benefits. This policy has recently been reversed.

While the   can never fully repay these workers or their families, they deserve recognition and compensation for their sacrifices. Since the  ’s historic announcement in   that it intended to compensate   nuclear weapons workers who suffered occupational illnesses as a result of exposure to the unique hazards in building the Nation’s nuclear defense, it has been the policy of this Administration to support fair and timely compensation for these workers and their survivors.   should provide necessary information and otherwise help employees of the   or its contractors determine if their illnesses are associated with conditions of their nuclear weapons-related work; it should provide workers and their survivors with all pertinent and available information necessary for evaluating and processing claims; and it should ensure that this program minimizes the administrative burden on workers and their survivors, and respects their dignity and privacy. This order sets out agency responsibilities to accomplish these goals, building on the  ’s articulated principles and the framework set forth in   of  .  ,  , and Energy shall be responsible for developing and implementing actions under the Act to compensate these workers and their families in a manner that is compassionate, fair, and timely. Other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall assist in this effort.

 . 2. Designation of Responsibilities for Administering the Energy Employees’ Occupational Illness Compensation Program ("Program").

(a)

Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall have primary responsibility for administering the  . Specifically, the Secretary shall:

(i)

Administer and decide all questions arising under the Act not assigned to other agencies by the Act or by this order, including determining the eligibility of individuals

with covered occupational illnesses and their survivors and adjudicating claims for compensation and benefits;

(ii)

No later than  , promulgate regulations for the administration of the  , except for functions assigned to other agencies pursuant to the Act or this order;

(iii)  , ensure the availability, in paper and electronic format, of forms necessary for making claims under the  ; and

(iv)

Develop informational materials, in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , to help potential claimants understand the   and the application process, and provide these materials to individuals upon request and to the Secretary of   and the Attorney General for dissemination to potentially eligible individuals.

(b)

Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall:

(i)

No later than  , promulgate regulations establishing:

(A)

guidelines, pursuant to section 3623(c) of the Act, to assess the likelihood that an individual with cancer sustained the cancer in the performance of duty at a   facility or an atomic weapons employer facility, as defined by the Act; and

(B)

methods, pursuant to section 3623(d) of the Act, for arriving at and providing reasonable estimates of the radiation doses received by individuals applying for assistance under this program for whom there are inadequate records of radiation exposure;

(ii)

In accordance with procedures developed by the Secretary of  , consider and issue determinations on petitions by classes of employees to be treated as members of the Special Exposure Cohort;

(iii) With the assistance of the Secretary of  , apply the methods promulgated under subsection (b)(i)(B) to estimate the radiation doses received by individuals applying for assistance;

(iv)

Upon request from the Secretary of  , appoint members for a physician panel or panels to consider individual workers’ compensation claims as part of   under the process established pursuant to subsection (c)(v); and

(v)

Provide   established under section 4 of this order with administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other necessary support services and perform the administrative functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), with respect to  .

(c) Secretary of  . The Secretary of Energy shall:

(i)

Provide the Secretary of   and   access, in accordance with law, to all relevant information pertaining to worker exposures, including access to restricted data, and any other technical assistance needed to carry out their responsibilities under subsection (b)(ii) and section 4(b), respectively.

(ii)

Upon request from the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  , and as permitted by law, require a   contractor, subcontractor, or

designated beryllium vendor, pursuant to section 3631(c) of the Act, to provide information relevant to a claim under this  ;

(iii) Identify and notify potentially eligible individuals of the availability of compensation under the  ;

(iv)

 , pursuant to sections 3621(4)(B) and   of the Act, atomic weapons employers and additions

to the list of designated beryllium vendors;

(v)

Pursuant to Subtitle D of the Act, negotiate agreements with the chief executive officer of each   in which there is a   facility, and other   as appropriate, to provide assistance to a   contractor employee on filing a   workers’ compensation system claim, and establish a Worker Assistance Program to help individuals whose illness is related to employment in the  ’s nuclear weapons complex, or the individual’s survivor if the individual is deceased, in applying for   workers’ compensation benefits. This assistance shall include:

(1)

Submittal of reasonable claims to a physician panel, appointed by the Secretary of   and administered by the Secretary of  , under procedures established by the Secretary of  , for determination of whether the individual’s illness or death arose out of and in the course of employment by the   or its contractors and exposure to a toxic substance at a   facility; and

(2)

For cases determined by the physician panel and the Secretary of Energy under section 3661(d) and (e) of the Act to have arisen out of and in the course of employment by the   or its contractors and exposure to a toxic substance at a   facility, provide assistance to the individual in filing for workers’ compensation benefits. The Secretary shall not contest these claims and, to the extent permitted by law, shall direct a   contractor who employed the applicant not to contest the claim;

(vi)

Report on   by making publicly available on at least an   basis claims- related data, including the number of claims filed, the number of illnesses found to be related to work at a  

facility, job location and description, and number of successful   workers’ compensation claims awarded; and

(vii)  , publish in   a list of atomic weapons employer facilities within the meaning of section 3621(5) of the Act,   employer facilities within the meaning of section 3621(12) of the Act, and a list of facilities owned and operated by a beryllium vendor, within the meaning of section 3621(6) of the Act.

(d) Attorney General. The Attorney General shall:

(i)

  procedures to notify, to the extent possible, each claimant (or the survivor of that claimant if deceased) whose claim for compensation under section 5 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act has been or is approved by  , of the availability of supplemental compensation and benefits under  ;

(ii)

Identify and notify eligible covered uranium employees or their survivors of the availability of supplemental compensation under the  ; and

(iii) Upon request by the Secretary of  , provide information needed to adjudicate the claim of a covered uranium employee under this  .

 . 3. Establishment of  .

(a) There is hereby established   to be composed of representatives from  ,  , and  ,  , and  .

(b)   shall:

(i)

By  , develop a legislative proposal to ensure the  ’s fairness and efficiency, including provisions to assure adequate administrative resources and swift dispute resolution; and

(ii)

Address any impediments to timely and coordinated Program implementation.

 . 4. Establishment of  .

(a)

Pursuant to Public Law 106-398, there is hereby established an  ). The   shall consist of no more than 20 members to be appointed by the President. Members shall include affected workers and their representatives, and representatives from scientific and medical communities. The President shall designate a Chair for the   among its members.

(b) The   shall:

(i)

Advise the Secretary of   on the development of guidelines under section 2(b)(i) of this order;

(ii)

Advise the Secretary of   on the scientific validity and quality of dose reconstruction efforts performed for this  ; and

(iii) Upon request by the Secretary of  , advise the Secretary on whether there is a class of employees at any   facility who were exposed to radiation but for whom it is not feasible to estimate their radiation dose, and on whether there is a reasonable likelihood that such radiation dose may have endangered the health of members of the class.

 . 5. Reporting Requirements. The Secretaries of Labor,  , and Energy shall, as part of their   budget submissions, report to   (OMB) on their activities under this  , including total expenditures related to benefits and program administration. They shall also report to the  ,  , on the manner in which they will carry out their respective responsibilities under the Act and this order. This report shall include, among other things, a description of the administrative structure established within their agencies to implement the Act and this order. In addition, the Secretary of   shall   report on the total number and types of claims for which compensation was considered and other data pertinent to evaluating   performance fulfilling the requirements of the Act and this order.

 . 6. Administration and  . (a) This Executive Order shall be carried out subject to the availability of appropriations, and to the extent permitted by law.

(b) This Executive Order does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .
