Executive  —Presidents Council on  ,  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to develop recommendations for Federal agency actions to address the future of  ,  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.  ,   (Princeville) has a unique place in   history. This small city in eastern   was the first city in   founded by ex-slaves. In its history,   has been damaged by floods many times. Recently, it was devastated by floods caused by Hurricane Floyd. In response to the damage, appropriate Federal agencies have already begun repair and recovery efforts to assist  . However, it is the policy of this Administration to do more to help this city that occupies such a significant place in our history. Therefore, this order will create an interagency council to develop recommendations for further actions to address the future of  .

 . 2. Establishment. (a) There is established the "President’s Council on  ,  " (Council). The   shall comprise the Secretaries of Defense, Agriculture, Commerce,  ,  ,  , Transportation, the Director of   (OMB),  , the Commander of  , the Administrator of  , the Director of  , the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for  , or their designees, and such other executive department and agency (agencies) representatives as the President may deem appropriate. The   shall consult with other agencies and   and local governments, as appropriate.

(b) The Director of  , or his designee, shall serve as  .

 . 3. Functions. The   shall develop recommendations for the President on further agency and legislative actions that can be undertaken to address the future of  . In developing the recommendations, the   shall consider, among other things: (a) the unique historic and cultural importance of   in   history; (b) the views and recommendations of the relevant State and local governments, the private sector, citizens, community groups, and non-profit organizations, on actions that they all could take to enhance the future of   and its citizens; and (c) agency assessments andrecommendations to repair and rebuild  , and, to the extent practicable, protect   from future floods. The  , through its  , shall submit its recommendations to the President. Where appropriate, the  ’s recommendations shall include draft legislation requesting additional funding or other authorities to aid in the reconstruction and protection of  .

 . 4. Coordination. At the request of the  , agencies shall cooperate with and provide information to the  .

 . 5.  . This order is not intended to, nor does it create, any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , it agencies, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .
