Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to promote the employment of people with disabilities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment and  . (a) There is hereby established  ).

(b)

The   shall be composed of not more than 15 members who shall be appointed by the President for terms of  . The membership shall include individuals who are representatives of business (including small business), labor organizations,   or local government, disabled veterans, people with disabilities, organizations serving people with disabilities, and researchers or academicians focusing on issues relating to the employment of people with disabilities, and may include other individuals representing entities involved in issues relating to the employment of people with disabilities as the President finds appropriate.

(c)

The President shall designate a   from among the members of the   to serve a term of  .

(d) Members and the   may be reappointed for subsequent

terms and may continue to serve until their successors have been appointed. Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Board shall provide advice and information to the President, the Vice President, the Secretary of  , and other appropriate   officials with respect to facilitating the employment of people with disabilities, and shall assist in other activities that promote the formation of public-private partnerships, the use of economic incentives, the provision of technical assistance regarding entrepreneurship, and other actions that may enhance employment opportunities for people with disabilities.

(b) In carrying out paragraph (a) of this section, the   shall:

(i)

develop and submit to   in   a comprehensive written plan for joint public-private efforts to promote employment opportunities for people with disabilities and improve their access to financial institutions and commercial and business enterprises;

(ii)

identify strategies that may be used by employers, labor unions, national and international organizations, and  , and local officials to increase employment opportunities for people with disabilities; and

(iii) coordinate with   in   in promoting the collaborative use of public and private resources to assist people with disabilities in forming and expanding small business concerns and in enhancing their access to Federal procurement and other relevant business opportunities. Public resources include those of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and of executive departments and agency offices responsible for small, disadvantaged businesses utilization.

(c) The   shall submit   written reports to the President, who may apprise the   and other interested organizations and individuals

on its activities, progress, and problems relating to maximizing employment opportunities for people with disabilities.

(d)

The Chairperson of the Board shall serve as a member and Vice Chair of   established under Executive Order 13078 of  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The Board shall meet when called by the  , at a time and place designated by the Chairperson. The   shall call at least two meetings per calendar year. The   may form subcommittees or working groups within the   to address particular matters.

(b)

The Chairperson may from time to time prescribe such rules, procedures, and policies relating to the activities of the   as are not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this order.

(c)

Members of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in Federal service (5

U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(d)

  shall provide funding and appropriate support to assist the   in carrying out the activities described in section 2 of this order, including necessary office space, equipment, supplies, services, and staff. The functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , that are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with guidelines that have been issued by  .

(e)

The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may need for purposes of carrying out the functions described in section 2 of this order.

 . 4.  . (a) Executive Order   of  , as amended, relating to the establishment of  , is hereby revoked. The employees, records, property, and funds of the   shall become the employees, records, property, and funds of  .

(b)

Executive Order   of  , is amended in sections 1(a) and (b) by striking "Chair of the President’s Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities" and inserting "Chairperson of the President’s Disability Employment Partnership Board."

 

 ,

 .
