Executive Order  —Extension of Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Extension.

  Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses (the "Committee"), established pursuant to Executive Order   of  , is hereby extended for the purposes set forth herein. All provisions of that order relating to membership and administration shall remain in effect. All   appointments, as well as the President's designation of a Chairperson, shall remain in effect. The limitations set forth in section 2(c)-(e) and section 4(a) of Executive Order   shall also remain in effect. The   shall remain subject to  , as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 2.

 . 2. Functions.

(a) The   shall report to the President through the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  .

(b) The   shall have two principal roles:

(1) Oversight of the ongoing investigation being conducted by   with the assistance, as appropriate, of other executive departments and agencies into possible chemical or biological warfare agent exposures during the Gulf War; and

(2) Evaluation of   plan for and progress towards the implementation of the  's recommendations contained in its   submitted on  .

(c) The   shall provide advice and recommendations related to its oversight and evaluation responsibilities.

(d) The   may also provide additional advice and recommendations prompted by any new developments related to its original functions as set forth in section 2(b) of Executive Order  .

(e) The   shall submit by letter a status report by  , and a final supplemental report by  , unless otherwise directed by the President.

 . 3.  .

(a) The   shall terminate   after submitting its final supplemental report.

(b) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended to create any right, benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  . It is included here as an example of the numbered Executive orders which are listed in   D at the end of this volume and compiled   in title 3 of the

Code of Federal Regulations.
