Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

(a) There shall be established an   ( " or "Committee"). The   shall be composed of not more than 15 members to be appointed or designated by the President. The   shall comply with  , as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 2.

(b) The President shall designate a   from among the members of  .

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) There has been established  , the members of which include the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General,  , the Director of  , and the Director of  . As set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the   shall provide to   advice and recommendations on the ethical and scientific standards applicable to human radiation experiments carried out or sponsored by  . As used herein, "human radiation experiments" means:

(1) experiments on individuals involving intentional exposure to ionizing radiation. This category does not include common and routine clinical practices, such as established diagnosis and treatment methods, involving incidental exposures to ionizing radiation;

(2) experiments involving intentional environmental releases of radiation that (A) were designed to test human health effects of ionizing radiation; or (B) were designed to test the extent of human exposure to ionizing radiation.

Consistent with the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the   shall also provide advice, information, and recommendations on the following experiments:

(1) the experiment into the atmospheric diffusion of radioactive gases and test of detectability, commonly referred to as "the   test," by the former   (AEC) and   in   at  ,  ;

(2) two radiation warfare field experiments conducted at the  's   office in   involving gamma radiation released from non-bomb point sources at or near ground level;

(3) six tests conducted during 1949–1952 of radiation warfare ballistic dispersal devices containing radioactive agents at    ,  , site;

(4) four atmospheric radiation-tracking tests in   at  ,  ; and

(5) any other similar experiment that may later be identified by  .

The   shall review experiments conducted from   to  . Human radiation experiments undertaken after  , the date of issuance of  , and   ("DHEW") Regulations for   (45 C.F.R.  ), may be sampled to determine whether further inquiry into experiments is warranted. Further inquiry into experiments conducted after  , may be pursued if   determines, with the concurrence of  , that such inquiry is warranted.

(b)(1) The   shall determine the ethical and scientific standards and criteria by which it shall evaluate human radiation experiments, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The   shall consider whether (A) there was a clear medical or scientific purpose for the experiments; (B) appropriate medical follow-up was conducted; and (C) the experiments' design and administration adequately met the ethical and scientific standards, including standards of informed consent, that prevailed at the time of the experiments and that exist  .

(2) The   shall evaluate the extent to which human radiation experiments were consistent with applicable ethical and scientific standards as determined by the   pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If deemed necessary for such an assessment, the   may carry out a detailed review of experiments and associated records to the extent permitted by law.

(3) If required to protect the health of individuals who were subjects of a human radiation experiment, or their descendants,   may recommend to   that an agency notify particular subjects of an experiment, or their descendants, of any potential health risk or the need for medical follow-up.

(4)   may recommend further policies, as needed, to ensure compliance with recommended ethical and scientific standards for human radiation experiments.

(5)   may carry out such additional functions as   may from time to time request.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall be compensated in accordance with Federal law. Committee members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide   with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.

General Provisions.

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report to  .

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended to create any right, benefit, trust, or responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:37 p.m.,  ]
