Executive Order  —Prohibiting   From  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution 1306 of  ,

I,  , President of  , take note that the people of   have suffered the ravages of a brutal civil war for  , and that   has determined that the situation in   constitutes a threat to international peace and security in the region and also has expressed concerns regarding the role played by the illicit trade in diamonds in fueling the conflict in  .   insurgent   ( ’s) illicit trade in diamonds from   to fund its operations and procurement of weapons, the  ’s flagrant violation of the Lome Peace Agreement of  , and its attacks on personnel of   in   are direct challenges to   foreign policy objectives in the region as well as a direct challenge to the rule-based international order which is crucial to the peace and prosperity of  . Therefore, I find these actions constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of   and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. In order to implement   Resolution 1306 and to ensure that the direct or indirect importation into   of rough diamonds from   will not contribute financial support to aggressive actions by the   or to the  ’s procurement of weapons, while at the same time seeking to avoid undermining the legitimate diamond trade or diminishing confidence in the integrity of the legitimate diamond industry, I hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 2 of this order and to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order, the direct or indirect importation into   of all rough diamonds from   on or after the effective date of this order is prohibited.

 . 2. The prohibition in section 1 of this order shall not apply to the importation of rough diamonds controlled through   regime of  .

 . 3. Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b)

the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization;

(c)

the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d)

the term "rough diamond" means all unworked diamonds classifiable in heading 7102 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of  ; and

(e)

the term "controlled through   regime of  " means accompanied by   or other documentation that demonstrates to the satisfaction of   (or analogous officials of   territory or possession with its own customs administration) that the rough diamonds were legally exported from   with the approval of  .

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6. This order is not intended to create, nor does it create, any right, benefit, or privilege, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, officers, or any other person.

 . 7. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 

 ,

 .
