Executive Order  —Foreign Disaster Assistance
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   for  , Public Law 103-337 (the "Act") and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. This order governs the implementation of section 404 of title 10, United States Code, as added by amendment set forth in section 1412(a) of the Act. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 404(a), the Secretary of   is hereby directed to provide disaster assistance outside   to respond to manmade or natural disasters when the Secretary of   determines that such assistance is necessary to prevent loss of lives. The Secretary of   shall exercise the notification functions required of the President by 10 U.S.C. 404(c).

 . 2. The Secretary of   shall provide disaster assistance only: (a) at the direction of the President; or

(b) with the concurrence of the Secretary of  ; or

(c) in emergency situations in order to save human lives, where there is not sufficient time to seek the prior initial concurrence of the Secretary of  , in which case the Secretary of   shall advise, and seek the concurrence of, the Secretary of   as soon as practicable thereafter.

For the purpose of section 2(b) of this order, only the Secretary of  , or the Deputy Secretary of  , or persons acting in those capacities, shall have the authority to withhold concurrence. Concurrence of the Secretary of   is not required for the execution of military operations undertaken pursuant to, and consistent with, assistance provided in accordance with parts (b) and (c) of this section, or with respect to matters relating to the internal financial processes of  .

 . 3. In providing assistance covered by this order, the Secretary of   shall consult with  , in the Administrator's capacity as the President's  .

 . 4. This order does not affect any activity or program authorized under any other provision of law, except that referred to in section 1 of this order.

 . 5. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m., e.d.t. on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:19 a.m.,  ]
