Executive Order 13130— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to support a coordinated effort by both government and private sector entities to address threats to our  's critical infrastructure, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   ( ). The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President. The members of the   shall be selected from the private sector, including private sector entities representing the critical infrastructures identified in Executive Order  , and from   and local government. The members of the   shall have expertise relevant to the functions of the   and shall not be full-time officials or employees of the executive branch of  .

(b) The President shall designate a   and Vice-Chairperson from among the members of the  .

(c)   and Counter- Terrorism at   (National Coordinator) will serve as the Executive Director of the  .

(d) The Senior Director for   at   will serve as the  's liaison to other agencies.

(e) Individuals appointed by the President will serve for a period of  . Service shall be limited to no more than 3 consecutive terms.

Section 2. Functions. (a) The   will meet periodically to:

(1) enhance the partnership of the public and private sectors in protecting our critical infrastructure and provide reports on this issue to the President as appropriate;

(2) propose and develop ways to encourage private industry to perform periodic risk assessments of critical processes, including information and telecommunications systems; and

(3) monitor the development of   and   (PSISACs) and provide recommendations to   and   on how these organizations can best foster improved cooperation among the PSISACs,   (NIPC), and other   entities.

(b) the   will report to the President through the Assistant to the President for  , who shall assure appropriate coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

(c) The   will advise the lead agencies with critical infrastructure responsibilities, sector coordinators, the NIPC, the PSISACs and   subjects of the  's function in whatever manner the Chair of the NIAC,  , and the head of the affected entity deem appropriate.

(d) Senior   officials will participate in the meetings of the   as appropriate.

(e)   shall perform the functions of the President under   for the  , except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

Section 3. Administration. To the extent permitted by law:

(a) The   may hold open and closed hearings, conduct inquiries, and establish subcommittees as necessary.

(b) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the   as it may request, as appropriate.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members will be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the   service.

(d) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,  , through  , shall provide the   with administrative services, staff, and other support services, and such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

(e) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President prior to that date.

Section 4.  . This order is not intended to create any right, benefit, trust, or responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
