Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, and in order to provide for the recruitment and selection of exceptional employees for careers in the public sector, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby constituted   (Program). The purpose of the   is to attract exceptional men and women to the Federal workforce who have diverse professional experiences, academic training, and competencies, and to prepare them for careers in analyzing and implementing public programs. "Career Intern" is a generic term, and agencies may use occupational titles as appropriate.

 . 2. The   is another step in the  ’s effort to recruit the highest caliber people to  , develop their professional abilities, and retain them in   departments and agencies. Cabinet secretaries and agency administrators should view the   as complementary to existing programs that provide career enhancement opportunities for Federal employees, and departments and agencies are encouraged to identify and make use of those programs, as well as the new Program, to meet department and agency needs.

 . 3. (a)   (OPM) shall develop appropriate merit-based procedures for the recruitment, screening, placement, and continuing career development of  .

(b)

In developing those procedures, the   shall provide for such actions as deemed appropriate to assure equal employment opportunity and the application of appropriate veterans’ preference criteria.

 . 4. (a) A successful candidate shall be appointed to a position in Schedule B of the excepted service at the GS–5, 7, or 9 (and equivalent) or other trainee level appropriate for the  , unless otherwise approved by the  . The appointment shall not exceed   unless extended by   or agency, with the concurrence of the  , for up to  .

(b)

Tenure for a   shall be governed by the following principles and policies:

(1)

Assigned responsibilities shall be consistent with a   competencies and career interests, and the purposes of the  .

(2)

Continuation in the   shall be contingent upon satisfactory performance by the Career Intern throughout the internship period.

(3)

Except as provided in subsections (4) and (5) of this section, service as a   confers no rights to further Federal employment in either the competitive or excepted service upon the expiration of the internship period.

(4)

Competitive civil service status may be granted to a   who satisfactorily completes the internship and meets all other requirements prescribed by the  .

(5) Within an agency, an employee who formerly held a career or career-conditional appointment immediately before entering  , and who fails to complete   for reasons unrelated to misconduct or suitability, shall be placed in a career or career-conditional position in the current agency at no lower grade or pay than the one the employee left to accept the position in  .

 . 5. A   shall participate in a formal program of training and job assignments to develop competencies that the   identifies as core to the  , and the employing agency identifies as appropriate to the agency’s mission and needs.

 . 6. The   shall prescribe such regulations as it determines necessary to carry out the purpose of this order.

 . 7. The   shall provide oversight of the  .

 . 8. Executive Order   of  , is revoked.

 . 9.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch. It does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity, by a party against  , its agencies, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .
