Executive Order  —Blocking Property of Certain Haitian Nationals
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq.

), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the

de facto

regime in   and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of:

(a) any   national resident in  ; or

(b) any other person subject to the blocking provisions of Executive  .  ,  ,  ,  , or   and   citizens who are members of the immediate family of any such person, as identified by the Secretary of the  ;

that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked. This section shall not apply to property of nongovernmental organizations engaged in the provision of essential humanitarian assistance in   or in the conduct of refugee and migration operations in  , as identified by the Secretary of the  . Payments and transfers previously authorized by Executive Order No.  , may continue to be made in a manner directed by the Secretary of the  .

 . 2. Any transaction by a   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) The term "  national" means a citizen of   or an entity organized under the laws of  .

(b) The definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order No.   apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the effective date of this order.

 . 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6.

(a) This order shall take effect at 10:09 p.m.,   daylight time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

10:09 p.m. 6–21–94

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:33 a.m.,  ]
