Executive Order  —Commission on   and Investment Policy
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), and in order to establish a   on   and Investment Policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the   on   and Investment Policy ("Commission"). The   shall be composed of 15 members to be appointed by the President. Members shall (1) be chosen from the private sector (businesses, unions, academic institutions, and nonprofit corporations); and (2) have substantial experience with selling agricultural products, manufactured goods, or high-value-added services to   and Pacific markets or be knowledgeable from their personal or professional experience about the trade barriers or their industry and government policies and practices, formal and informal, that have restricted access by   business to   and Pacific markets.

(b) The President shall designate a   and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) On or before  , the   shall report to the President on the steps   should take to achieve a significant opening of  ,  , and other   and Pacific markets to   business. The report also shall identify trade and investment impediments to   business in   and Pacific markets and provide recommendations for reducing the impediments. The report's recommendations shall reflect the goal of securing increased access for   business to   and Pacific markets, by  , in such a way that a maximum number of high-wage jobs are created and maintained in  . The   also shall recommend to the President (1) measures to strengthen, if necessary, ongoing programs for regular monitoring of progress toward this goal, including the periodic assessment of the nature and scope of trade and investment impediments; and (2) realistic measurements of trade and investment activity in Asia and the Pacific, which consider all relevant factors, including the composition of trade and intracompany trade and investment patterns.

(b) The   shall decide by a three-fifths vote which recommendations to include in the report. At the request of any   member, the report will include that   member's dissenting views or opinions.

(c) The   may, for the purpose of carrying out its functions, hold meetings at such times and places as the   may find advisable.

 . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Upon request of  , the head of any Federal agency or instrumentality shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the discretion of such head, (1) make any of the facilities and services of such agency or instrumentality available to the  ; and (2) detail any of the personnel of such agency or instrumentality to the   to assist the   in carrying out its duties.

(c) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from the private sector may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ) to the extent funds are available for such purposes.

(d) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for performance of the  's functions.

(e)   Representative shall perform the functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(f) The   shall adhere to the requirements set forth in the Act. All executive branch officials assigned duties by the Act shall comply with its requirements with respect to the  .

 . 4. General Provision. The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:39 p.m.,  ]
