Executive Order  —    Policy
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), and in order to establish  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established in  )  ). The   shall be composed of not more than 15 members appointed by the President from knowledgeable representatives in health care practice and complementary and alternative medicine. The President shall designate a   from among the members of the  . The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall appoint an Executive Director for the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall provide a report, through the Secretary, to the President on legislative and administrative recommendations for assuring that public policy maximizes the benefits to   of complementary and alternative medicine. The recommendations shall address the following:

(a)

the education and training of health care practitioners in complementary and alternative medicine;

(b)

coordinated research to increase knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine practices and products;

(c)

the provision to health care professionals of reliable and useful information about complementary and alternative medicine that can be made readily accessible and understandable to the general public; and

(d) guidance for appropriate access to and delivery of complementary

and alternative medicine.  . 3. Administration. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the  , upon request, with such information and assistance as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b)

Each member of the   shall receive compensation at a rate equal to the   equivalent of the   rate specified for Level 1V of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C.  ) for   during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the  . While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of the duties of the  , members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).

(c)

The   shall provide the   with funding and with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of the  ’s functions.

(d)

In accordance with guidelines issued by  , the Secretary shall perform the functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), with respect to the  , except that of reporting to the  .

(e) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President prior to such date.

 

 ,

 .
