Executive Order  — 
 
 

Certain executive branch agencies are authorized to conduct investigations of allegations of wrongdoing by employees of  . For certain administrative allegations against   ("IGs") and, as explained below, against certain staff members of   ("OIGs"), it is desirable to authorize an independent investigative mechanism.

The Chairperson of the President's   ("PCIE") and   ("ECIE"), in consultation with members of the  , has established an   pursuant to the authority granted by Executive Order No.  .

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to ensure that administrative allegations against IGs and certain staff members of the OIGs are appropriately and expeditiously investigated and resolved, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  . (a) To the extent permitted by law, and in accordance with this order, the   shall receive, review, and refer for investigation allegations of wrongdoing against IGs and certain staff members of the OIGs.

(b) The   shall consist of at least the following members:

(1) The official of   (" ") serving on the  , as designated by the Director of the  . The

  member shall serve as  .

(2) The Special Counsel of  ;

(3) The Director of  ;

(4) Three or more IGs, representing both the   and the  , appointed by the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE.

(c) The Chief of  , or his designee, shall serve as an advisor to   with respect to its responsibilities and functions in accordance with this order.

 . 2.  . (a) The   shall review all allegations of wrongdoing it receives against an   who is a member of the   or  , or against a staff member of an   acting with the knowledge of the   or when the allegation against the staff person is related to an allegation against the  , except that where an allegation concerns a member of  , that member shall recuse himself from consideration of the matter.

(b) An   shall refer any administrative allegation against a senior staff member to   when:

(1) review of the substance of the allegation cannot be assigned to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter; and

(2) the   determines that an objective internal investigation of the allegation, or the appearance thereof, is not feasible.

(c) The   shall determine if there is a substantial likelihood that the allegation, referred to it under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, discloses a violation of any law, rule or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds or abuse of authority and shall refer the allegation to the agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter. However, if a potentially meritorious administrative allegation cannot be referred to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter, the   shall certify the matter to its  , who shall cause a thorough and timely investigation of the allegation to be conducted in accordance with this order.

(d) If   determines that an allegation does not warrant further action, it shall close the matter without referral for investigation and notify the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE of its determination.

 . 3. Authority to Investigate. (a) The Director of the  , through his designee serving as Chairperson of  , is authorized and directed to consider and, where appropriate, to investigate administrative allegations against the IGs and, in limited cases as described in sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, against other staff members of the OIGs, when such allegations cannot be assigned to another agency of the executive branch and are referred by the   pursuant to section 2(c) of this order.

(b) At the request of the Director of the  , through his designee serving as  , heads of agencies and entities represented in the   and   may, to the extent permitted by law, provide resources necessary to  . Employees from those agencies and entities will be detailed to  , subject to the control and direction of the  , to conduct an investigation pursuant to section 2(c): Provided, that such agencies or entities shall be reimbursed by the agency or entity employing the subject of the investigation. Reimbursement for any costs associated with the detail shall be consistent with applicable law, including but not limited to the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536), and subject to the availability of funds.

(c) Nothing in the above delegation shall augment, diminish, or otherwise modify any existing responsibilities and authorities of any other executive branch agency.

 . 4. Results of Investigation. (a) The report containing the results of the investigation conducted under the supervision of   shall be provided to the members of   for consideration.

(b) With respect to those matters where   has referred an administrative allegation to an agency of the executive branch with appropriate jurisdiction over the matter, the head of that agency shall provide a report to   concerning the scope and results of the inquiry.

(c) The   shall assess the report received under (a) or (b) of this section and determine whether the results require forwarding of the report, with   recommendations, to the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE for resolution. If   determines that the report requires no further referral or recommendations, it shall so notify the Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE.

(d) Where the Chairperson of the PCIE/  determines that dissemination of the report to the head of the subject's employing agency or entity is appropriate, the head of the agency or entity shall certify to the Chairperson of the  /  within   that he has personally reviewed the report, what action, if any, has been or is to be taken, and when any action taken will be completed. The  /ECIE Chairperson may grant the head of the entity or agency a   extension when circumstances necessitate such extension.

(e) The Chairperson of the PCIE/ECIE shall report to   the final disposition of the matter, including what action, if any, has been or is to be taken by the head of the subject's employing agency or entity. When   receives notice of the final disposition, it shall advise the subject of the investigation that the matter referred to   for review has been closed.

 . 5. Procedures. (a)  , in conjunction with the Chairperson of the PCIE/ , shall establish the policies and procedures necessary to ensure consistency in conducting investigations and reporting activities under this order.

(b) Such policies and procedures shall specify the circumstances under which  , upon review of a complaint containing allegations of wrongdoing, may determine that an allegation is without merit and therefore the investigation is unwarranted. A determination by   that an investigation is unwarranted shall be considered   final disposition of the complaint.

(c) The policies and procedures may be expanded to encompass other issues related to the handling of allegations against IGs and others covered by this order.

 . 6. Records Maintenance. All records created and received pursuant to this order are records of   and shall be maintained by the  .

 . 7.  . This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it will be published in   on  .
