Executive Order  —Implementation of Agreement With  
 
 

WHEREAS,   and   ( ) have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Government Procurement (Agreement) that provides appropriate reciprocal competitive government procurement opportunities;

WHEREAS, the commitments made in the   are intended to become part of an expanded General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Agreement on Government Procurement (GATT Code) and are an important step toward an expanded GATT Code;

WHEREAS, as a result of these commitments,   businesses will obtain increased access to   member state procurement for   goods and services;

WHEREAS, I have determined that it is inconsistent with the public interest to apply the restrictions of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 10a–10d), to procurement covered by the Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and title III of the Trade Agreements Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C. 2511–2518), and in order to implement the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In applying the provisions of  , the heads of the agencies listed in Annex 1, Parts A and B, of this order are requested, as of the date of this order, to apply no price differential between articles, materials, or supplies of   origin and those originating in the member states of the  .

 . 2. For purposes of this order, the rule of origin specified in section 308 of the Trade Agreements Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), shall apply in determining whether goods originate in the member states of the  .

 . 3. This order shall apply only to solicitations, issued by agencies listed in Annex 1, Parts A and B, of this order, above the threshold amounts set forth in Annex 2.

 . 4. This order shall apply to solicitations outstanding on the date of this order, except for those for which the initial deadline for receipt of bids or proposals has passed, and to all solicitations issued after the date of this order.

 . 5. Except for procurements by  ,   ( ) shall be responsible for interpretation of the Agreement. The   shall seek the advice of the interagency organization established under section 242(a) of   of   (19 U.S.C. 1872(a)) and consult with affected agencies, including  .

 . 6. This Executive order is effective immediately. Although regulatory implementation of this order must await revisions to   (FAR), it is expected that agencies listed in Annex 1, Parts A and B, of this order will take all appropriate actions in the interim to implement those aspects of the order that are not dependent upon regulatory revision.

 . 7. Pursuant to section 25 of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 421(a)),   shall ensure that the policies established herein are incorporated in the FAR within   from the date this order is issued.

 

 ,

 .

Annex 1A

 

(Not including national security procurement made in support of safeguarding nuclear materials or technology and entered into under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act; and oil purchases related to  )

  of  (The national security consideration currently applicable to   under   is equally applicable under this Agreement to  )

Department of the Treasury   for   (other than     and  )   of     of the President     ACTION Agency     National Mediation Board Railroad Retirement Board American   United      

Annex 1B

The Power Marketing Administrations of the Department of Energy Tennessee Valley Authority

Annex 2

Thresholds Applicable to Agencies listed in Annex 1A

Goods contracts—130,000 SDRs (currently $176,000) Construction contracts—$6,500,000

Thresholds Applicable to Agencies listed in Annex 1B

Goods contracts—$450,000 Construction contracts—$6,500,000
