Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , Public Law 103–182; 107 Stat.   ("NAFTA Implementation Act"), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. (a)   ("Environmental Cooperation Agreement") shall be implemented consistent with   policy for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, and the environment.   shall also be implemented to advance sustainable development, pollution prevention, environmental justice, ecosystem protection, and biodiversity preservation and in a manner that promotes transparency and public participation in accordance with   ("NAFTA") and  .

(b) Effective implementation of   is essential to the realization of the environmental objectives of   and the NAFTA Implementation Act and promotes cooperation on trade and environmental issues between  ,  , and  .

 . 2. Implementation of the Environmental Cooperation Agreement. (a) Policy Priorities. In accordance with Article 10(2) of  , it is the policy of   to promote consideration of, with a view towards developing recommendations and reaching agreement on, the following priorities within   ("Council"):

(1) pursuant to Article 10(2)(m), the environmental impact of goods throughout their life cycles, including the environmental effects of processes and production methods and the internalization of environmental costs associated with products from raw material to disposal;

(2) pursuant to   10(2)(b), (g), (i), (j), and (k), pollution prevention techniques and strategies, transboundary and border environmental issues, the conservation and protection of wild flora and fauna (including endangered species), their habitats and specially protected natural areas, and environmental emergency preparedness and response activities;

(5) Consistent with  , the   Administrator shall develop procedures to inform the public of arbitral proceedings and   activities under  , and to provide appropriate mechanisms for receiving public comment with respect to such arbitral proceedings and   activities involving  .

(6) As a disputing party,   shall seek to ensure, pursuant to Article 30 of the Environmental Cooperation Agreement, that the arbitral panels consult with appropriate experts for information and technical advice.

(e)

Consultation with States.

(1) Pursuant to Article 18 of the Environmental Cooperation Agreement, the   Administrator shall establish a governmental committee to furnish advice regarding implementation and further elaboration of the Agreement. Through this committee, or through other means as appropriate, the   and other relevant Federal agencies shall:

(A) inform the States on a continuing basis of matters under the Environmental Cooperation Agreement that directly relate to, or will potentially have a direct impact on, the States, including: (i) dispute settlement proceedings and other matters involving enforcement by the States of environmental laws; and (ii) implementation of  , including  , committee, and working group activities, in any area in which the   exercise concurrent or exclusive legislative, regulatory, or enforcement authority;

(B) provide the   with an opportunity to submit information and advice with respect to the matters identified in section 2(e)(1)(A) of this order; and

(C) involve the States to the greatest extent practicable at each stage of the development of   positions regarding matters identified in section 2(e)(1)(A) of this order that will be addressed by the  , committees, subcommittees, or working groups established under the Environmental Cooperation Agreement, or through dispute settlement processes prescribed under the Environmental Cooperation Agreement (including involvement through the inclusion of appropriate representatives of the States).

(2) When formulating positions regarding matters identified in section 2(e)(1)(A) of this order,   shall take into account the information and advice received from  .

(3)  , where appropriate, shall include representatives of interested   as Members of   delegations to the   and other   bodies, including arbitral panels.

 . 3.

 .

The   Administrator shall utilize a   as provided under Article 17 of the Environmental Cooperation Agreement.

 . 4.

United States Contributions to  .

In accordance with section 532(a)(2) of the NAFTA Implementation Act, the   is designated as the agency authorized to make the contributions of   from funds available for such contributions to the annual budget of  .

 . 5.

 .

This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:35 p.m.,  ]
