Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to further the national security and other interests of   with regard to uranium enrichment and related businesses after the privatization of   (USEC), it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is hereby established   (EOC).

 . 2. Objectives. The   shall monitor and coordinate   efforts with respect to the privatized USEC and any successor entities involved in uranium enrichment and related businesses in furtherance of the following objectives:

(a) The full implementation of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and   ( ) Extracted from  , dated   ("HEU Agreement"), and related contracts and agreements by the   as executive agent or by any other executive agents;

(b) The application of statutory, regulatory, and contractual restrictions on foreign ownership, control, or influence in the  , any successor entities, and any other executive agents;

(c) The development and implementation of   policy regarding uranium enrichment and related technologies, processes, and data; and

(d) The collection and dissemination of information relevant to any of the foregoing on an ongoing basis, including from   and  .

 . 3. Organization. (a) The   shall be Chaired by a senior official from   ( ). The   shall coordinate the carrying out of the purposes and policy objectives of this order. The   shall meet as often as appropriate, but  , and shall submit reports to the Assistant to the President for   semiannually, or more frequently as appropriate. The   shall prepare   the report for the President's transmittal to the   pursuant to section 3112 of the USEC Privatization Act, Public Law 104-134, title  , 3112(b)(10), 110 Stat.  , 1321-346 ( ).

(b) The   shall consist of representatives from  , the  ,  , Justice,  , Energy, and  , the  ,  ,  , and  . The   shall formulate internal guidelines for its operations, including guidelines for convening meetings.

(c) The   shall coordinate sharing of information and provide direction, while operational responsibilities resulting from the  's oversight activities will rest with   member agencies.

(d) At the request of the  , appropriate agencies, including  , shall provide day-to-day support for the  .

 . 4.  . The   shall form an HEU Agreement Oversight Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") in order to continue coordination of the implementation of the HEU Agreement and related contracts and agreements, monitor actions taken by the executive agent, and make recommendations regarding steps designed to facilitate full implementation of  , including changes with respect to the executive agent. The Subcommittee shall be chaired by a senior official from the   and shall include representatives of    , Justice,  , and  , and  ,  ,  , and, as appropriate,  , and  . The Subcommittee shall meet as appropriate to review the implementation of the HEU Agreement and consider steps to facilitate full implementation of that Agreement. In particular, the Subcommittee shall:

(a) have access to all information concerning implementation of the HEU Agreement and related contracts and agreements;

(b) monitor negotiations between the executive agent or agents and   authorities on implementation of the HEU Agreement, including the proposals of both sides on delivery schedules and on price;

(c) monitor sales of the natural uranium component of low-enriched uranium derived from     pursuant to applicable law;

(d) establish procedures for designating alternative executive agents to implement the HEU Agreement;

(e) coordinate policies and procedures regarding the full implementation of the   purchase agreement and related contracts and agreements, consistent with applicable law; and

(f) coordinate the position of   on any issues that arise in the implementation of the Memorandum of Agreement with the USEC for the   to serve as   Agent under the HEU Agreement.

 . 5.  , or   (FOCI). The   shall collect information and monitor issues relating to foreign ownership, control, or influence of the   or any successor entities. Specifically, the   shall:

(a) monitor the application and enforcement of the FOCI requirements of   established by Executive Order   with respect to the   and any successor entities (see     ( ));

(b) monitor and review reports and submissions relating to   issues made by the   or any successor entity to   ( ) under the Atomic Energy Act of  , 42 U.S.C.   et seq. ( ), and the USEC Privatization Act, Public Law 104-134, title  , 110 Stat.   et seq. ( );

(c) ensure coordination with   of the collection and analysis of intelligence and ensure coordination of intelligence with other information related to   issues; and

(d) ensure coordination with   in  .

 . 6.  . The   shall collect and analyze information related to the maintenance of domestic uranium mining, enrichment, and conversion industries, provided that such activities shall be undertaken in a manner that provides appropriate protection for such information. In particular, the   shall:

(a) collect and review all public filings made by or with respect to the   or any successor entities with  ;

(b) collect information from all available sources necessary for the preparation of the   report to the   required by section 3112 of the USEC Privatization Act, as noted in section 3(a) of this order, including information relating to plans by the   or any successor entities to expand or contract materially the enrichment of uranium-using gaseous diffusion technology;

(c) collect information relating to the development and implementation of atomic vapor laser isotope separation technology;

(d) to the extent permitted by law, and as necessary to fulfill the  's oversight functions, collect proprietary information from the  , or any successor entities, provided that the collection of such information shall be undertaken so as to minimize disruption to the normal functioning of the private corporation. For example, such information would include the  's financial statements prepared in accordance with standards applicable to public registrants and the executive summary of the  's strategic plan as shared with its  , as well as timely information on its unit production costs, capacity utilization rates, average pricing and sales for   and for new contracts, employment levels, overseas activities, and research and development initiatives. Such information shall be collected on an   basis, with   updates as appropriate; and

(e) coordinate with relevant agencies in monitoring the levels of natural and enriched uranium and enrichment services imported into  .

 . 7. Coordination with  . Upon notification by the   that it seeks the views of other agencies of the executive branch regarding determinations necessary for the issuance, reissuance, or renewal of a certificate of compliance or license to the privatized USEC, the   shall convey the relevant views of these other agencies of the executive branch, including whether the applicant's performance as   agent for   is acceptable, on a schedule consistent with the  's need for timely action on such regulatory decisions.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:26 p.m.,  ]
