Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to   and   to Other United Nations Arms Embargoes
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), the Export Administration Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  

et seq.

),   (22 U.S.C.  

et seq.

), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution 918 of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Arms Embargo.

The following activities are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: (a) The sale or supply to   from the territory of   by any person, or by any   person in any foreign country or other location, or using any U.S.-registered vessel or aircraft, of arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, paramilitary police equipment, and spare parts for the aforementioned, irrespective of origin. This prohibition does not apply to activities related to     or   or other entities permittedto have such items by  ; and

(b) Any willful evasion or attempt to violate or evade any of the prohibitions set forth in this order, by any person.

 . 2.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order, the term: (a) "Person" means a natural person as well as a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities; and

(b) "  person" means any citizen or national of  , any lawful permanent resident of  , or any corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities, organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches).

 . 3.

Responsibilities.

The functions and responsibilities for the enforcement of the foregoing prohibitions are delegated as follows: (a) The Secretary of   is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of   and other authorities available to the Secretary of  , as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order, relating to arms and related materiel of a type enumerated on   (22   Part 121). The Secretary of   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  ; and

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of   and other authorities available to the Secretary of  , as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order, relating to arms and related materiel identified in the Export Administration Regulations (15 C.F.R. Parts 730–799). The Secretary of   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  .

 . 4.

Authorization.

All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 5.

 

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   in consultation with the Secretary of   are hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by section 5 of   and not otherwise delegated by Executive order, as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of implementing any other arms embargo mandated by resolution of  , consistent with the allocation of functions delegated under section 3 of this order. The Secretary of   or the Secretary of   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  .

 . 6.

 

. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7.

Effective Date

. This order shall take effect at 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:06 a.m.,  ]
