Executive Order  —Establishing   to Investigate Disputes Between Certain Railroads Represented by   of   by  
 
 

Disputes exist between certain railroads represented by   of  , including   (including  ),  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  ,  ,  ,  , and their employees represented by  . The railroads involved in these disputes are designated on the attached list, which is made a part of this order.

These disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) (the "Act").

In the judgment of  , these disputes threaten substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree that would deprive a section of the country of essential transportation service.

Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 10 of the Act (45 U.S.C. 160), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Emergency Board ("Board"). There is established effective  , a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate any and all of the disputes raised in mediation. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any railroad carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2. Report. The   shall report to the President with respect to the dispute within   of its creation.

 . 3.  . As provided by section 10 of the Act, from the date of the creation of the   and for   after the   has made its report to the President, no change, except by agreement of the parties shall be made by the railroads or the employees in the conditions out of which the disputes arose.

 . 4. Records Maintenance. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5. Expiration. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in sections 2 and 3 of this order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:06 p.m.,  ]
