Executive Order  —  Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established   Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses (the "Committee"). The   shall be composed of not more than 12 members to be appointed by the President. The members of the   shall have expertise relevant to the functions of the   and shall not be full-time officials or employees of the executive branch of  . The   shall be subject to  , as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 2.

(b) The President shall designate a   from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall report to the President through the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  .

(b) The   shall provide advice and recommendations based on its review of the following matters:

(1) Research: epidemiological, clinical, and other research concerning   veterans' illnesses.

(2) Coordinating Efforts: the activities of  , including  ,  , and the Disability and Compensation Working Group.

(3) Medical Treatment: medical examinations and treatment in connection with   veterans' illnesses, including   and  .

(4) Outreach: government-sponsored outreach efforts such as hotlines and newsletters related to Gulf War veterans' illnesses.

(5) External Reviews: the steps taken to implement recommendations in external reviews by   During the Persian Gulf War,   on  ,   on the Persian Gulf Experience and Health,  , and other bodies.

(6) Risk Factors: the possible risks associated with service in   in general and, specifically, with prophylactic drugs and vaccines, infectious diseases, environmental chemicals, radiation and toxic substances, smoke from oil well fires, depleted uranium, physical and psychological stress, and other factors applicable to  .

(7)   and  : information related to reports of the possible detection of chemical or biological weapons during the Persian Gulf Conflict.

(c) It shall not be a function of the   to conduct scientific research. The   shall review information and provide advice and recommendations on the activities undertaken related to the matters described in (b) above.

(d) It shall not be a function of the   to provide advice or recommendations on any legal liability of   for any claims or potential claims against  .

(e) As used herein, "Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses" means the symptoms and illnesses reported by   uniformed services personnel who served in the Persian Gulf Conflict.

(f) The   shall submit an interim report within   of the first meeting of the   and a final report by  , unless otherwise provided by the President.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. (b) Members of the   shall be compensated in accordance with Federal law. Committee members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with such funds as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

(c) This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and it is not intended to create any right, benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:36 a.m.,  ]
