Executive Order  —  and Universities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , in reaffirmation of the special relationship of   to   and  , and, for the purposes of helping to: (a) ensure that tribal colleges and universities are more fully recognized as accredited institutions, have access to the opportunities afforded other institutions, and have Federal resources committed to them on a continuing basis; (b) establish a mechanism that will increase accessibility of Federal resources for tribal colleges and universities in tribal communities; (c) promote access to high-quality educational opportunity for economically disadvantaged students; (d) promote the preservation and the revitalization of     and   languages and cultural traditions; (e) explore innovative approaches to better link tribal colleges with early childhood, elementary, and secondary education programs; and (f) support   (20 U.S.C.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Definition of   and Universities. Tribal colleges and universities ("tribal colleges") are those institutions cited in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of   (7 U.S.C. 301 note), any other institution that qualifies for funding under   of  , (25 U.S.C.   et seq.), and  , authorized in   of  , Public Law 95-471, title II (25 U.S.C. 640a note).

 . 2.  . (a) Establishment. There shall be established in   a Presidential advisory committee entitled   on   and Universities ("Board"). Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), with respect to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   ("Secretary"), in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) Composition. The Board shall consist of not more than 15 Members who shall be appointed by the President. The   shall include representatives of tribal colleges.   may also include representatives of the higher, early childhood, elementary, and secondary education communities; tribal officials; health, business, and financial institutions; private foundations; and such other persons as the President deems appropriate. Members of the   will serve terms of   and may be reappointed to additional terms. A Member may continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed. In the event a Member fails to serve a full term, an individual appointed to replace that Member will serve the remainder of that term. All terms will expire upon the termination of the Board.

(c) Role of Board. The   shall provide advice regarding the progress made by Federal agencies toward fulfilling the purposes and objectives of this order.   shall also provide recommendations to the President and the Secretary at least annually on ways tribal colleges can:

(1) utilize long-term development, endowment building, and master planning to strengthen institutional viability;

(2) utilize the   and private sector to improve financial management and security, obtain private sector funding support, and expand and complement Federal education initiatives;

(3) develop institutional capacity through the use of new and emerging technologies offered by both the   and private sectors;

(4) enhance physical infrastructure to facilitate more efficient operation and effective recruitment and retention of students and faculty; and

(5) help achieve   and meet other high standards of education accomplishment.

(d) Scheduled Meetings. The Board shall meet at least annually to provide advice and consultation on tribal colleges and relevant Federal and private sector activities, and to transmit reports and present recommendations.

 . 3. Office of   Initiative. There shall be established in     Initiative on   and Universities ("Initiative"). The Initiative shall be authorized to: (a) provide the staff support for the  ;

(b) assist the Secretary in the role of liaison between the executive branch and tribal colleges;

(c) serve the Secretary in carrying out the Secretary's responsibilities under this order; and

(d) utilize the services, personnel, information, and facilities of other  , tribal, and local agencies with their consent, and with or without reimbursement, consistent with applicable law. To the extent permitted by law and regulations, each Federal agency shall cooperate in providing resources, including personnel detailed to the  , to meet the objectives of the order.

 . 4.  . Each participating executive department and agency (hereinafter collectively referred to as "agency"), as determined by the Secretary, shall appoint a senior official, who is a full-time officer of   and who is responsible for management or program administration, to serve as liaison to   Initiative. The official shall report directly to the agency head, or agency representative, on agency activity under this order and serve as liaison to   Initiative. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, each agency shall provide appropriate information in readily available formats requested by   Initiative staff pursuant to this order.

 . 5.   Federal Plan. (a) Content. Each agency shall, in collaboration with tribal colleges, develop and document a   Plan of the agency's efforts to fulfill the purpose of this order. These   Plans shall include   performance indicators and appropriate measurable objectives for the agency. The plans shall address among other relevant issues:

(1) barriers impeding the access of tribal colleges to funding opportunities and to participation in Federal programs, and ways to eliminate the barriers;

(2) technical assistance and information that will be made available to tribal colleges regarding the program activities of the agency and the preparation of applications or proposals for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts; and

(3) an   goal for agency funds to be awarded to tribally controlled colleges and universities in:

(A) grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, and procurement;

(B) related excess property-type acquisitions under various authorities such as section 923 of   of   (7 U.S.C.  ) and   of  , chapter 288, 63 Stat. 377 (codified as described at 40 U.S.C. 471 note); and

(C) the transfer of excess and surplus Federal computer equipment under Executive Order  .

In developing the   Plans required by this order, agencies shall strive to include tribal colleges in all aspects and activities related to the attainment of the participation goals described in Executive Order  , "Promoting Procurement with Small Businesses Owned and   by   and Economically Disadvantaged Individuals, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and Minority Institutions." The   may also emphasize access to high-quality educational opportunity for economically disadvantaged   students; the preservation and revitalization of     and   languages and cultural traditions; innovative approaches to better link tribal colleges with early childhood, elementary, and secondary education programs; and  .

(b) Submission. Each agency shall submit its   Plan to  . In consultation with the  ,   shall then review these   Plans and develop an integrated   Plan for Assistance to  , which the Secretary shall review and submit to the President. The   Plan for Assistance to   may be revised within the   period.

(c)   Performance Reports. Each agency shall submit to   an Annual Performance Report that shall measure each agency's performance against the objectives set forth in its  . In consultation with the  ,   shall review and combine   Performance Reports into one   report, which shall be submitted to the Secretary for review, in consultation with  .

 . 6. Private Sector. In cooperation with the  ,   shall encourage the private sector to assist tribal colleges through increased use of such strategies as: (a) matching funds to support increased endowments;

(b) developing expertise and more effective ways to manage finance, improve information systems, build facilities, and improve course offerings; and

(c) increasing resources for and training of faculty.

 . 7. Termination. The Board shall terminate   after the date of this Executive order unless the   is renewed by the President prior to the end of that   period.

 . 8. Administration. (a) Compensation. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b) Funding. The   and the Initiative shall be funded by  .

(c) Administrative Support.   shall provide appropriate administrative services and staff support for the   and the  . With the consent of  , other agencies participating in the   shall provide administrative support to   consistent with statutory authority and shall make use of section 112 of title 3, United States Code, to detail agency employees to the extent permitted by law. The   and   shall have a core staff and shall be supported at appropriate levels.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 8:45 a.m.,  ]
