Executive Order  —Blocking Assets and Prohibiting Transactions With Significant Narcotics Traffickers
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code.

I,  , President of  , find that the actions of significant foreign narcotics traffickers centered in  , and the unparalleled violence, corruption, and harm that they cause in   and abroad, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, I hereby order blocked all property and interests in property that are or hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, of:

(a) the foreign persons listed in the   to this order;

(b) foreign persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  :

(i) to play a significant role in international narcotics trafficking centered in  ; or

(ii) materially to assist in, or provide financial or technological support for or goods or services in support of, the narcotics trafficking activities of persons designated in or pursuant to this order; and

(c) persons determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , to be owned or controlled by, or to act for or on behalf of, persons designated in or pursuant to this order.

 . 2. Further, except to the extent provided in section 203(b) of   and in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, I hereby prohibit the following:

(a) any transaction or dealing by   persons or within   in property or interests in property of the persons designated in or pursuant to this order;

(b) any transaction by any   person or within   that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group or subgroup;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen or national, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  :

(d) the term "foreign person" means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of  ) or any entity not organized solely under the laws of  , or existing solely in  , but does not include a foreign state; and

(e) the term "narcotics trafficking" means any activity undertaken illicitly to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance or transport, or otherwise assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others in illicit activities relating to, narcotic drugs, including, but not limited to, cocaine.

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out this order.

 . 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 6. (a) This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on  .

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:21 a.m.,  ]
