Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(b)  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(c)  ; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(d) President's   for    ; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(e) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(f) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(h) President's   and the  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(i) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(j) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(l) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(m) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(o) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order No.   ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order, except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following Executive orders or sections thereof, which established committees that have terminated or whose work is completed, are revoked:

(a) Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive  .   and  , establishing  ; and

(b) That portion of section 2 of Executive Order No.   that established  .

 . 4. Executive  .   is superseded.

 . 5. This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:17 a.m.,  ]
