Section 1

.

 

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff to   that   to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I declared a national emergency arising from conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, and imposed additional

ad  

duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate to deal with that unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside  , to the national security and economy of  . Section 4(b) of Executive Order   provided that "[s]hould any trading partner retaliate against   in response to this action through import duties on   exports or other measures, I may further modify the [Harmonized Tariff Schedule of  ] to increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action."

In the Executive Order dated   (Amendment to Reciprocal Tariffs and Updated Duties As Applied to Low-Value Imports from  ), pursuant to section 4(b) of Executive Order  , I ordered modification of   of   (HTSUS) to raise the applicable

ad  

duty rate for imports from   ( ) established in Executive Order  , in recognition of the fact that the   announced that it would retaliate against   in response to Executive Order  .

On  ,   of the   announced that, in response to the Executive Order dated  , an 84 percent tariff would be imposed on all goods imported into the   originating from  , effective at 12:01 a.m. on  . Pursuant to section 4(b) of Executive Order  , I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in that order by modifying the   and taking other actions to increase the duties imposed on the   in response to this latest retaliation. In my judgment, this modification is necessary and appropriate to effectively address the threat to   national and economic security posed by the  's contribution to the conditions reflected in large and persistent trade deficits, including   industrial policies that have produced systemic excess manufacturing capacity in the   and suppressed   domestic manufacturing capacity, which conditions are made worse by the  's recent actions.

Section 4(c) of Executive Order   provided that, "[s]hould any trading partner take significant steps to remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with   on economic and national security matters, I may further modify the   to decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this order." Since I signed Executive Order  , in contrast to the  's actions, more than 75 other foreign trading partners, including countries enumerated in   I to Executive Order  , have approached   to address the lack of trade reciprocity in our economic relationships and our resulting national and economic security concerns. This is a significant step by these countries toward remedying non-reciprocal trade arrangements and aligning sufficiently with   on economic and national security matters.

Pursuant to section 4(c) of Executive Order  , I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in that order by modifying the   to temporarily suspend, for    , except with respect to the  , application of the individual

ad  

duties imposed for foreign trading partners listed in   I to Executive Order  , and to instead impose on articles of all such trading partners an additional

ad  

rate of duty as set forth herein, pursuant to the terms of, and except as otherwise provided in, Executive Order  , as modified by this order.

 . 2

.

Suspension of Country-Specific Ad Valorem Rates of Duty

. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , enforcement of the second paragraph of section 3(a) of Executive Order   is suspended until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . Effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , and until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , all articles imported into the customs territory of   from the trading partners enumerated in   I to Executive Order   shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional

ad  

rate of duty of 10 percent, subject to all applicable exceptions set forth in Executive Order  .

 . 3

.

Tariff Modifications

. In recognition of the fact that the   has announced that it will retaliate again against   in response to the Executive Order dated  , which amended Executive Order  , and in recognition of the sincere intentions by many other trading partners to facilitate a resolution to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , the   shall be modified as follows:

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  

(a) heading 9903.01.25 of the   shall be amended by deleting the article description and by inserting "Articles the product of any country, except for products described in headings 9903.01.26-9903.01.33, and except as provided for in heading 9903.01.34, and except for articles the product of  , including   and  , as described in heading 9903.01.63 that are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , and that were not in transit on the final mode of transit prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , as provided for in subdivision (v) of   note 2 to this subchapter . . . . . . ." in lieu thereof;

(b) heading 9903.01.63 of the   shall be amended by deleting "84%" each place that it appears and by inserting "125%" in  , and by deleting " ," and by inserting " " in lieu thereof;

(c) subdivision (v)(xiii)(10) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall be amended by deleting "84%", and inserting "125%" in  , and subdivision (v)(xiii) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   shall be amended by deleting " ," and by inserting " ," in lieu thereof; and

(d) headings 9903.01.43-9903.01.62 and 9903.01.64-9903.01.76 are hereby suspended, and subdivisions (v)(xiii)(i)-(ix) and ( ) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the   are hereby suspended for     beginning at 12:01 a.m. on  .

 . 4

.

 

. To ensure that the imposition of tariffs pursuant to section 3 of this order is not circumvented and that the purpose of Executive Order  , as modified by the Executive Order dated  , and this order are not undermined, I also deem it necessary and appropriate to:

(a) increase the

ad  

rate of duty set forth in section 2(c)(i) of Executive Order   of   (Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in   as Applied to Low-Value Imports), as modified by the Executive Order dated  , from 90 percent to 120 percent;

(b) increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section 2(c)(ii) of Executive Order  , as modified by the Executive Order dated  , that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , and before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , from 75 dollars to 100 dollars; and

(c) increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section 2(c)(ii) of Executive Order  , as modified by the Executive Order dated  , that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , from 150 dollars to 200 dollars.

 . 5

.

Implementation

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , as applicable, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Chair of the International Trade Commission, are directed to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order, consistent with applicable law, including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or notices in  and adopting rules and regulations, and are authorized to take such actions, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement this order.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
