Section 1

.

Purpose

. To serve the interests of the   people,   must maintain the world's strongest and most technologically advanced military through a dynamic defense industrial base, coupled with a robust network of capable partners and allies. A rapid and transparent foreign defense sales system that enables effective defense cooperation between   and our chosen partners is foundational to these objectives. Reforming this system would simultaneously strengthen the security capabilities of our allies and invigorate our own defense industrial base. This mutually reinforcing approach would enhance   warfighting capabilities by fostering healthy   supply chains, domestic production levels, and technological development.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to:

(a) Improve accountability and transparency throughout the foreign defense sales system to ensure predictable and reliable delivery of   products to foreign partners in support of   foreign policy objectives.

(b) Consolidate parallel decision-making when determining which military capabilities   will choose to provide, and to which countries.

(c) Reduce rules and regulations involved in the development, execution, and monitoring of foreign defense sales and of transfer cases to ensure alignment with   foreign policy objectives.

(d) Increase government-industry collaboration to achieve cost and schedule efficiencies in the execution of   (FMS) program.

(e)   competitiveness abroad, revitalize the defense industrial base, and lower unit costs for   and our allies and partners by integrating exportability features in the design phase, improving financing options for partners, and increasing contract flexibility overall.

 . 3

.

Phased Implementation

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall promptly:

(i) Implement National Security Presidential Memorandum 10 of   ( ), or any successor policy directive.

(ii) Reevaluate restrictions imposed by   I items and consider supplying certain partners with specific Category I items, in consultation with the Secretary of  .

(iii) Submit a joint letter to the   proposing an update to statutory congressional certification (also known as congressional notification) thresholds of proposed sales under the   and Direct Commercial Sales ( ) programs in   (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.). The Secretary of   shall also work with the   to review congressional notification processes to ensure the timely adjudication of notified   and   cases.

(b) Within   of this order:

(i) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall develop a list of priority partners for conventional arms transfers and issue updated guidance to   regarding this list.

(ii) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall:

(A) develop a list of priority end-items for potential transfer to priority partners identified by the Secretary of   in the list required by this subsection;

(B) ensure the transfer of priority end-items to priority partners would not cause significant harm to   force readiness; and

(C) ensure the transfer of priority end-items to priority partners would advance my  's goal of strengthening allied burden-sharing, both by sharing the cost of end-item production and by increasing our allies' capacity to meet capability targets independently, without sustained support from  .

(c)(i) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall review, update, and reissue the lists of priority partners and military end-items on an   basis.

(ii) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall review and update the list of defense items that can only be purchased through the   process (the  -Only List) and  , 22   part 121, to focus protections solely on our most sensitive and sophisticated technologies, and shall establish clear criteria for including an item on the  -Only List.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall submit a plan to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), to: improve the transparency of   defense sales to foreign partners by developing metrics for accountability; secure exportability as a requirement in the early stages of the acquisition process; and consolidate technology security and foreign disclosure approvals.

(e) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , with the assistance of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall submit a plan to the APNSA to develop a single electronic system to track all   export license requests and ongoing   efforts throughout the case life-cycle.

 . 4

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) "Parallel decision-making" refers to the granting of simultaneous certifications and approvals during the   process, as opposed to sequential decision-making where agencies wait for other agencies to make decisions before taking action.

(b) "Exportability" means the process to identify, develop, and integrate technology protection features into   defense systems early in the acquisition process to protect critical technologies, capabilities, and program information and thus enable export to partners.

(c) "FMS-only" means defense articles that are exclusively available through the   process as opposed to the   process, as authorized in   and described in   (SAMM),   (DSCA), Chapter 4.

(d) "End-item" means the final product when assembled and ready for issue or deployment.

(e) "Foreign defense sales system" means the enterprise devoted to the transfer of defense articles, services, and training by   and   companies to international partners and organizations.

(f) All other terms related to   cases shall have the meanings given to them by the SAMM, DSCA 5105.38M.

Sec. 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
