Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. Parents trust  's schools to provide their children with a rigorous education and to instill a patriotic admiration for our incredible   and the values for which we stand.

In  , however, parents have witnessed schools indoctrinate their children in radical,   ideologies while deliberately blocking parental oversight. Such an environment operates as an echo chamber, in which students are forced to accept these ideologies without question or critical examination. In many cases, innocent children are compelled to adopt identities as either victims or oppressors solely based on their skin color and other immutable characteristics. In other instances, young men and women are made to question whether they were born in the wrong body and whether to view their parents and their reality as enemies to be blamed. These practices not only erode critical thinking but also sow division, confusion, and distrust, which undermine the very foundations of personal identity and family unity.

Imprinting  , subversive, harmful, and false ideologies on our  's children not only violates longstanding anti-discrimination civil rights law in many cases, but usurps basic parental authority. For example, steering students toward surgical and chemical mutilation without parental consent or involvement or allowing males access to private spaces designated for females may contravene Federal laws that protect parental rights, including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act ( ) and   (PPRA), and sex-based equality and opportunity, including   of   (Title IX). Similarly, demanding acquiescence to "White Privilege" or "unconscious bias," actually promotes racial discrimination and undermines national unity.

My Administration will enforce the law to ensure that recipients of Federal funds providing K-12 education comply with all applicable laws prohibiting discrimination in various contexts and protecting parental rights, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of   (Title VI), 42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.;  , 20 U.S.C.  

et seq

.;  , 20 U.S.C.  g; and the PPRA, 20 U.S.C.  .

 . 2

.

Definitions

. As used herein:

(a) The definitions in the Executive Order "Defending Women from   and   to  " ( ) shall apply to this order.

(b) "Discriminatory equity ideology" means an ideology that treats individuals as members of preferred or disfavored groups, rather than as individuals, and minimizes agency, merit, and capability in favor of immoral generalizations, including that:

(i) Members of one race, color, sex, or national origin are morally or inherently superior to members of another race, color, sex, or national origin;

(ii) An individual, by virtue of the individual's race, color, sex, or national origin, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously;

(iii) An individual's moral character or status as privileged, oppressing, or oppressed is primarily determined by the individual's race, color, sex, or national origin;

(iv) Members of one race, color, sex, or national origin cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to their race, color, sex, or national origin;

(v) An individual, by virtue of the individual's race, color, sex, or national origin, bears responsibility for, should feel guilt, anguish, or other forms of psychological distress because of, should be discriminated against, blamed, or stereotyped for, or should receive adverse treatment because of actions committed in the past by other members of the same race, color, sex, or national origin, in which the individual played no part;

(vi) An individual, by virtue of the individual's race, color, sex, or national origin, should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment to achieve diversity, equity, or inclusion;

(vii) Virtues such as merit, excellence, hard work, fairness, neutrality, objectivity, and racial colorblindness are racist or sexist or were created by members of a particular race, color, sex, or national origin to oppress members of another race, color, sex, or national origin; or

(viii)   is fundamentally racist, sexist, or otherwise discriminatory.

(c) "Educational service agency" ( ) has the meaning given in 20 U.S.C. 1401(5), and the terms "elementary school," "local educational agency" ( ), "secondary school," and "state educational agency" ( ) have the meanings given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c).

(d) "Patriotic education" means a presentation of the history of   grounded in:

(i) an accurate, honest, unifying, inspiring, and ennobling characterization of  's founding and foundational principles;

(ii) a clear examination of how   has admirably grown closer to its noble principles throughout its history;

(iii) the concept that commitment to  's aspirations is beneficial and justified; and

(iv) the concept that celebration of  's greatness and history is proper.

(e) "Social transition" means the process of adopting a "gender identity" or "gender marker" that differs from a person's sex. This process can include psychological or psychiatric counseling or treatment by a school counselor or other provider; modifying a person's name (e.g., " " to " ") or pronouns (e.g., "him" to "her"); calling a child "nonbinary"; use of intimate facilities and accommodations such as bathrooms or locker rooms specifically designated for persons of the opposite sex; and participating in school athletic competitions or other extracurricular activities specifically designated for persons of the opposite sex. "Social transition" does not include chemical or surgical mutilation.

 . 3

.

Ending Indoctrination Strategy

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, to advise the President in formulating future policy, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General, shall provide an   to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, containing recommendations and a plan for:

(i) eliminating Federal funding or support for illegal and discriminatory treatment and indoctrination in K-12 schools, including based on gender ideology and discriminatory equity ideology; and

(ii) protecting parental rights, pursuant to  , 20 U.S.C.  g, and the PPRA, 20 U.S.C.  , with respect to any K-12 policies or conduct implicated by the purpose and policy of this order.

(b)   submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall contain a summary and analysis of the following:

(i) All Federal funding sources and streams, including grants or contracts, that directly or indirectly support or subsidize the instruction, advancement, or promotion of gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology:

(A) in K-12 curriculum, instruction, programs, or activities; or

(B) in K-12 teacher education, certification, licensing, employment, or training;

(ii) Each agency's process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an  ,  ,  , elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize the instruction, advancement, or promotion of gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology in:

(A) K-12 curriculum, instruction, programs, or activities; or

(B) K-12 teacher certification, licensing, employment, or training;

(iii) Each agency's process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an  ,  ,  , elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize the social transition of a minor student, including through school staff or teachers or through deliberately concealing the minor's social transition from the minor's parents.

(iv) Each agency's process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an  ,  ,  , elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize:

(A) interference with a parent's Federal statutory right to information regarding school curriculum, records, physical examinations, surveys, and other matters under the   or  ; or

(B) a violation of   or  ; and

(v) A summary and analysis of all relevant agency enforcement tools to advance the policies of this order.

(c) The Attorney General shall coordinate with   attorneys general and local district attorneys in their efforts to enforce the law and file appropriate actions against K-12 teachers and school officials who violate the law by:

(i) sexually exploiting minors;

(ii) unlawfully practicing medicine by offering diagnoses and treatment without the requisite license; or

(iii) otherwise unlawfully facilitating the social transition of a minor student.

(d) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall regularly convene the heads of the agencies tasked with submitting   under subsection (a) of this section to confer regarding their findings, areas for additional investigation, the modification or implementation of their respective recommendations, and such other policy initiatives or matters as the President may direct.

 . 4

.

Reestablishing the President's   and  

. (a) The President's   ("1776 Commission"), which was created by Executive Order   of  , to promote patriotic education, but was terminated by President   in Executive Order  , is hereby reestablished. The purpose of   is to promote patriotic education and advance the purposes stated in section 1 of Executive Order  , as well as to advise and promote the work of   250th Birthday ("Task Force 250") and   in their efforts to provide a grand celebration worthy of the momentous occasion of the 250th anniversary of   on  .

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall establish   in  .

(c) The   Commission shall be composed of not more than 20 members, who shall be appointed by the President for a term of  . The   Commission shall be made up of individuals from outside   with relevant experience or subject-matter expertise.

(d) The   Commission shall have a Chair or Co-Chairs, at the President's discretion, and a Vice Chair, who shall be designated by the President from among the  's members. An Executive Director, designated by the Secretary of   in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall coordinate the work of  . The Chair (or  ) and Vice Chair shall work with the Executive Director to convene regular meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order.

(e) The   Commission shall:

(i) facilitate the development and implementation of a "Presidential 1776 Award" to recognize student knowledge of the   founding, including knowledge about the Founders, the Declaration of Independence,  , and the great soldiers and battles of  ;

(ii) in coordination with  , coordinate bi-  lectures regarding the 250th anniversary of   that are grounded in patriotic education principles, which shall be broadcast to the   throughout calendar  ;

(iii) upon request, advise executive departments and agencies regarding their efforts to ensure patriotic education is appropriately provided to the public at national parks, battlefields, monuments, museums, installations, landmarks, cemeteries, and other places important to the   founding and   history, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law;

(iv) upon request, offer advice and recommendations to, and support the work of Task Force 250 and   regarding their plans to celebrate the 250th anniversary of  ; and

(v) facilitate, advise upon, and promote private and civic activities nationwide to increase public knowledge of and support patriotic education surrounding the 250th anniversary of  , as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(f)   shall provide funding and administrative support for  , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(g) Members of the   Commission shall serve without compensation but, as approved by  , shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(h) Insofar as chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as  ), may apply to  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(i) The   Commission shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 . 5

.

 

. (a) All relevant agencies shall monitor compliance with section 111(b) of title I of Division J of Public Law 108-447, which provides that "[

e

]ach educational institution that receives Federal funds for   shall hold an educational program on   on   for the students served by the educational institution," including by verifying compliance with each educational institution that receives Federal funds. All relevant agencies shall take action, as appropriate, to enhance compliance with that law.

(b) All relevant agencies shall prioritize Federal resources, consistent with applicable law, to promote patriotic education, including through the following programs:

(i)     and   Civics Education-National Activities programs;

(ii)     and   on  ; and

(iii)     and  ,   Speaker, and   programs, as well as the   network.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
