Section 1

.

Purpose

. Over  ,   has endured a large-scale invasion at an unprecedented level. Millions of illegal aliens from nations and regions all around the world successfully entered   where they are now residing, including potential terrorists, foreign spies, members of cartels, gangs, and violent transnational criminal organizations, and other hostile actors with malicious intent.

Deadly narcotics and other illicit materials have flowed across the border while agents and officers spend their limited resources processing illegal aliens for release into  . These catch-and-release policies undermine the rule of law and our sovereignty, create substantial risks to public safety and security, and divert critical resources away from stopping the entry of contraband and fugitives into  .

We have limited information on the precise whereabouts of a great number of these illegal aliens who have entered   over  .

This cannot stand. A nation without borders is not a nation, and   must act with urgency and strength to end the threats posed by an unsecured border.

One of my most important obligations is to protect the   people from the disastrous effects of unlawful mass migration and resettlement.

My Administration will marshal all available resources and authorities to stop this unprecedented flood of illegal aliens into  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to take all appropriate action to secure the borders of our Nation through the following means:

(a) Establishing a physical wall and other barriers monitored and supported by adequate personnel and technology;

(b) Deterring and preventing the entry of illegal aliens into  ;

(c) Detaining, to the maximum extent authorized by law, aliens apprehended on suspicion of violating   law, until such time as they are removed from  ;

(d) Removing promptly all aliens who enter or remain in violation of Federal law;

(e) Pursuing criminal charges against illegal aliens who violate the immigration laws, and against those who facilitate their unlawful presence in  ;

(f) Cooperating fully with   and local law enforcement officials in enacting   partnerships to enforce Federal immigration priorities; and

(g) Obtaining complete operational control of the borders of  .

 . 3

.

Physical Barriers

. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to deploy and construct temporary and permanent physical barriers to ensure complete operational control of the southern border of  .

 . 4

.

Deployment of Personnel

. (a) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate and lawful action to deploy sufficient personnel along the southern border of   to ensure complete operational control; and

(b) The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to supplement available personnel to secure the southern border and enforce the immigration laws of   through the use of sections 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6)).

 . 5

.

Detention

. The Secretary of   shall take all appropriate actions to detain, to the fullest extent permitted by law, aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law until their successful removal from  . The Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, issue new policy guidance or propose regulations regarding the appropriate and consistent use of lawful detention authority under the INA, including the termination of the practice commonly known as "catch-and-release," whereby illegal aliens are routinely released into   shortly after their apprehension for violations of immigration law.

 . 6

.

Resumption of Migrant Protection Protocols

. As soon as practicable, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to resume the Migrant Protection Protocols in all sectors along the southern border of   and ensure that, pending removal proceedings, aliens described in section 235(b)(2)(C) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(2)(C)) are returned to the territory from which they came.

 . 7

.

Adjusting Parole Policies

. The Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate action to:

(a) Cease using the "CBP One" application as a method of paroling or facilitating the entry of otherwise inadmissible aliens into  ;

(b) Terminate all categorical parole programs that are contrary to the policies of   established in my Executive Orders, including the program known as the "Processes for  ,  ,  , and  ."

(c) Align all policies and operations at the southern border of   to be consistent with the policy of Section 2 of this order and ensure that all future parole determinations fully comply with this order and with applicable law.

 . 8

.

Additional International Cooperation

. The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , shall take all appropriate action to facilitate additional international cooperation and agreements, consistent with the policy of Section 2, including entering into agreements based upon the provisions of section 208(a)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(a)(2)(A)) or any other applicable provision of law.

 . 9

.

DNA and Identification Requirements

. (a) The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to fulfill the requirements of the DNA Fingerprint Act of  , title X of Public Law 109-162, for all aliens detained under the authority of  ; and

(b) The Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to use any available technologies and procedures to determine the validity of any claimed familial relationship between aliens encountered or apprehended by  .

 . 10

.

Prosecution of Offenses

. The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to prioritize the prosecution of offenses that relate to the borders of  , including the investigation and prosecution of offenses that involve human smuggling, human trafficking, child trafficking, and sex trafficking in  .

 . 11

.

Additional Measures

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall provide recommendations to the President regarding the use of any other authority to protect   from foreign threats and secure the southern border.

 . 12

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
