Section 1

.

 

. Global law firms have for   played an outsized role in undermining the judicial process and in the destruction of bedrock   principles. Many have engaged in activities that make our communities less safe, increase burdens on local businesses, limit constitutional freedoms, and degrade the quality of   elections. Additionally, they have sometimes done so on behalf of clients, pro bono, or ostensibly "for the public good"—potentially depriving those who cannot otherwise afford the benefit of top legal talent the access to justice deserved by all. My Administration will no longer support taxpayer funds sponsoring such harm.

My Administration has already taken action to address some of the significant risks and egregious conduct associated with law firms, and I have determined that similar action is necessary to end Government sponsorship of harmful activity by an additional law firm:  ,  ,   ( ). In  , a   partner and former leading prosecutor in the office of Special Counsel   brought a pro bono suit against individuals alleged to have participated in the events that occurred at or near   Capitol on  , on behalf of   Attorney General.

In  ,   hired unethical attorney  , who had previously left   to join the   District Attorney's office solely to manufacture a prosecution against me and who, according to his co-workers, unethically led witnesses in ways designed to implicate me. After being unable to convince even   District Attorney   that a fraud case was feasible, Pomerantz engaged in a media campaign to gin up support for this unwarranted prosecution.

Additionally,   discriminates against its own employees on the basis of race and other categories prohibited by civil rights laws.  , along with nearly every other large, influential, or industry leading law firm, makes decisions around "targets" based on race and sex. My Administration is committed to ending such unlawful discrimination perpetrated in the name of "diversity, equity, and inclusion" policies and ensuring that   benefits support the laws and policies of  , including those laws and policies promoting our national security and respecting the democratic process. Those who engage in blatant discrimination and other activities inconsistent with the interests of   should not have access to our  's secrets nor be deemed responsible stewards of any Federal funds.

 . 2

.

Security Clearance Review

. (a) The Attorney General, the Director of  , and all other relevant heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall immediately take steps consistent with applicable law to suspend any active security clearances held by individuals at   and  , pending a review of whether such clearances are consistent with the national interest.

(b)   shall identify all Government goods, property, material, and services, including  , provided for the benefit of  . The heads of all agencies providing such material or services shall, to the extent permitted by law, expeditiously cease such provision.

 . 3

.

Contracting

. (a) To prevent the transfer of taxpayer dollars to Federal contractors whose earnings subsidize, among other things, activities that are not aligned with   interests, including racial discrimination, Government contracting agencies shall, to the extent permissible by law, require Government contractors to disclose any business they do with   and whether that business is related to the subject of the   contract.

(b) The heads of all agencies shall review all contracts with   or with entities that disclose doing business with   under subsection (a) of this section. To the extent permitted by law, the heads of agencies shall:

(i) take appropriate steps to terminate any contract, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, including  , for which   has been hired to perform any service;

(ii) otherwise align their agency funding decisions with the interests of the citizens of  ; with the goals and priorities of my Administration as expressed in executive actions, especially Executive Order   (Ending the Weaponization of  ); and as heads of agencies deem appropriate. Within   of the date of this order, all agencies shall submit to the Director of   an assessment of contracts with   or with entities that do business with   effective as of the date of this order and any actions taken with respect to those contracts in accordance with this order.

 . 4

.

Racial Discrimination

. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the action authorized by section 4 of Executive Order   of   (Addressing Risks from Perkins Coie LLP).

 . 5

.

Personnel

. (a) The heads of all agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide guidance limiting official access from   buildings to employees of   when such access would threaten the national security of or otherwise be inconsistent with the interests of  . In addition, the heads of all agencies shall provide guidance limiting Government employees acting in their official capacity from engaging with   employees to ensure consistency with the national security and other interests of  .

(b) Agency officials shall, to the extent permitted by law, refrain from hiring employees of  , absent a waiver from the head of the agency, made in consultation with the Director of  , that such hire will not threaten the national security of  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
