Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy.

Despite pioneering self-government,   now fails to enforce basic and necessary election protections employed by modern, developed nations, as well as those still developing.   and  , for example, are tying voter identification to a biometric database, while   largely relies on self-attestation for citizenship. In tabulating votes,   and   require use of paper ballots, counted in public by local officials, which substantially reduces the number of disputes as compared to the   patchwork of voting methods that can lead to basic chain-of-custody problems. Further, while countries like   and   sensibly limit mail-in voting to those unable to vote in person and do not count late-arriving votes regardless of the date of postmark, many   elections now feature mass voting by mail, with many officials accepting ballots without postmarks or those received well after  .

Free, fair, and honest elections unmarred by fraud, errors, or suspicion are fundamental to maintaining our constitutional Republic. The right of   citizens to have their votes properly counted and tabulated, without illegal dilution, is vital to determining the rightful winner of an election.

Under the Constitution,   governments must safeguard   elections in compliance with Federal laws that protect  ' voting rights and guard against dilution by illegal voting, discrimination, fraud, and other forms of malfeasance and error. Yet   has not adequately enforced   election requirements that, for example, prohibit   from counting ballots received after   or prohibit non-citizens from registering to vote.

Federal law establishes a uniform   across   elections, 2 U.S.C. 7 and 3 U.S.C. 1. It is the policy of my Administration to enforce those statutes and require that votes be cast and received by the election date established in law. As   for   recently held in   v. Wetzel ( ), those statutes set "  by which ballots must be both cast by voters and received by state officials." Yet numerous   fail to comply with those laws by counting ballots received after  . This is like allowing persons who arrive   after  , perhaps after a winner has been declared, to vote in person at a former voting precinct, which would be absurd.

Several Federal laws, including 18 U.S.C. 1015 and 611, prohibit foreign nationals from registering to vote or voting in   elections. Yet States fail adequately to vet voters' citizenship, and, in  ,   has failed to prioritize and devote sufficient resources for enforcement of these provisions. Even worse, the prior administration actively prevented   from removing aliens from their voter lists.

Additionally, Federal laws, such as   (Public Law 103- 31) and  Public Law 107-252), require States to maintain an accurate and current   list of every legally registered voter in the  . And   is required to share database information with States upon request so they can fulfill this duty. See 8 U.S.C. 1373(c). Maintaining accurate voter registration lists is a fundamental requirement in protecting voters from having their ballots voided or diluted by fraudulent votes.

Federal law, 52 U.S.C.  , prohibits foreign nationals from participating in  , State, or local elections by making any contributions or expenditures. But foreign nationals and non-governmental organizations have taken advantage of loopholes in the law's interpretation, spending millions of dollars through conduit contributions and ballot-initiative-related expenditures. This type of foreign interference in our election process undermines the franchise and the right of   citizens to govern their Republic.

Above all, elections must be honest and worthy of the public trust. That requires voting methods that produce a voter-verifiable paper record allowing voters to efficiently check their votes to protect against fraud or mistake. Election-integrity standards must be modified accordingly.

It is the policy of my Administration to enforce Federal law and to protect the integrity of our election process.

 . 2

.

Enforcing the Citizenship Requirement for Federal Elections.

To enforce the Federal prohibition on foreign nationals voting in   elections:

(a)(i) Within   of the date of this order,   shall take appropriate action to require, in its national mail voter registration form issued under 52 U.S.C.  :

(A) documentary proof of   citizenship, consistent with 52 U.S.C. 20508(b)(3); and

(B) a   or local official to record on the form the type of document that the applicant presented as documentary proof of   citizenship, including the date of the document's issuance, the date of the document's expiration (if any), the office that issued the document, and any unique identification number associated with the document as required by the criteria in 52 U.S.C. 21083(a)(5)(A), while taking appropriate measures to ensure information security.

(ii) For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, "documentary proof of   citizenship" shall include a copy of:

(A) a   passport;

(B) an identification document compliant with the requirements of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-13,  . B) that indicates the applicant is a citizen of  ;

(C) an official military identification card that indicates the applicant is a citizen of  ; or

(D) a valid Federal or State government-issued photo identification if such identification indicates that the applicant is a   citizen or if such identification is otherwise accompanied by proof of   citizenship.

(b) To identify unqualified voters registered in the States:

(i) the Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law, ensure that   and local officials have, without the requirement of the payment of a fee, access to appropriate systems for verifying the citizenship or immigration status of individuals registering to vote or who are already registered;

(ii) the Secretary of   shall take all lawful and appropriate action to make available information from relevant databases to   and local election officials engaged in verifying the citizenship of individuals registering to vote or who are already registered; and

(iii)  , in coordination with the DOGE Administrator, shall review each  's publicly available voter registration list and available records concerning voter list maintenance activities as required by 52 U.S.C.  , alongside   databases and   records requested, including through subpoena where necessary and authorized by law, for consistency with Federal requirements.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, consistent with applicable law, provide to the Attorney General complete information on all foreign nationals who have indicated on any immigration form that they have registered or voted in a Federal, State, or local election, and shall also take all appropriate action to submit to relevant State or local election officials such information.

(d) The head of each   voter registration executive department or agency (agency) under  , 52 U.S.C. 20506(a), shall assess citizenship prior to providing a   voter registration form to enrollees of public assistance programs.

(e) The Attorney General shall prioritize enforcement of 18 U.S.C. 611 and 1015(f) and similar laws that restrict non-citizens from registering to vote or voting, including through use of:

(i) databases or information maintained by  ;

(ii) State-issued identification records and driver license databases; and

(iii) similar records relating to citizenship.

(f) The Attorney General shall, consistent with applicable laws, coordinate with   attorneys general to assist with  -level review and prosecution of aliens unlawfully registered to vote or casting votes.

 . 3

.

Providing Other Assistance to States Verifying Eligibility.

To assist   in determining whether individuals are eligible to register and vote:

(a) The Commissioner of   shall take all appropriate action to make available  ,  , and any other Federal databases containing relevant information to all   and local election officials engaged in verifying the eligibility of individuals registering to vote or who are already registered. In determining and taking such action,   shall ensure compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws and regulations.

(b) The Attorney General shall ensure compliance with the requirements of 52 U.S.C. 20507(g).

(c) The Attorney General shall take appropriate action with respect to   that fail to comply with the list maintenance requirements of   and   contained in 52 U.S.C.   and 52 U.S.C.  .

(d) The Secretary of   shall update  , pursuant to the   and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act,   U.S.C.  , to require:

(i) documentary proof of   citizenship, as defined by section 2(a)(ii) of this order; and

(ii) proof of eligibility to vote in elections in the   in which the voter is attempting to vote.

 . 4

.

Improving the Election Assistance Commission.

(a)   shall, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 21003(b)(3) and 21142(c) and consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate action to cease providing Federal funds to   that do not comply with the   laws set forth in 52 U.S.C.  , including the requirement in 52 U.S.C. 20505(a)(1) that States accept and use the national mail voter registration form issued pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20508(a)(1), including any requirement for documentary proof of   citizenship adopted pursuant to section 2(a)(ii) of this order.

(b) (i)   shall initiate appropriate action to amend the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines 2.0 and issue other appropriate guidance establishing standards for voting systems to protect election integrity. The amended guidelines and other guidance shall provide that voting systems should not use a ballot in which a vote is contained within a barcode or quick-response code in the vote counting process except where necessary to accommodate individuals with disabilities, and should provide a voter-verifiable paper record to prevent fraud or mistake.

(ii) Within   of the date of this order,   shall take appropriate action to review and, if appropriate, re-certify voting systems under the new standards established under subsection (b)(i) of this section, and to rescind all previous certifications of voting equipment based on prior standards.

(c) Following an audit of Help America Vote Act fund expenditures conducted pursuant to 52 U.S.C.  ,   shall report any discrepancies or issues with an audited  's certifications of compliance with Federal law to   for appropriate enforcement action.

(d) The Secretary of   and the Administrator of  , consistent with applicable law, shall in considering the provision of funding for   or local election offices or administrators through the Homeland Security  , 6 U.S.C. 603

et seq

., heavily prioritize compliance with the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines 2.0 developed by   and completion of testing through the Voting System Test Labs accreditation process.

 . 5

.

Prosecuting Election Crimes.

To protect the franchise of   citizens and their right to participate in fair and honest elections:

(a) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to enter into information-sharing agreements, to the maximum extent possible, with the chief State election official or multimember agency of each  . These agreements shall aim to provide   with detailed information on all suspected violations of   and Federal election laws discovered by   officials, including information on individuals who:

(i) registered or voted despite being ineligible or who registered multiple times;

(ii) committed election fraud;

(iii) provided false information on voter registration or other election forms;

(iv) intimidated or threatened voters or election officials; or

(v) otherwise engaged in unlawful conduct to interfere in the election process.

(b) To the extent that any   are unwilling to enter into such an information sharing agreement or refuse to cooperate in investigations and prosecutions of election crimes, the Attorney General shall:

(i) prioritize enforcement of Federal election integrity laws in such   to ensure election integrity given the  's demonstrated unwillingness to enter into an information-sharing agreement or to cooperate in investigations and prosecutions; and

(ii) review for potential withholding of grants and other funds that the   awards and distributes, in the  's discretion, to   and local governments for law enforcement and other purposes, as consistent with applicable law.

(c) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to align   litigation positions with the purpose and policy of this order.

 . 6

.

Improving Security of Voting Systems.

To improve the security of all voting equipment and systems used to cast ballots, tabulate votes, and report results:

(a) The Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate actions to the extent permitted by 42 U.S.C.   and all other applicable law, so long as   maintains the designation of election infrastructure as critical infrastructure, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e), to prevent all non-citizens from being involved in the administration of any Federal election, including by accessing election equipment, ballots, or any other relevant materials used in the conduct of any Federal election.

(b) The Secretary of   shall, in coordination with   and to the maximum extent possible, review and report on the security of all electronic systems used in the voter registration and voting process. The Secretary of  , as the head of the designated Sector Risk Management Agency under 6 U.S.C. 652a, in coordination with  , shall assess the security of all such systems to the extent they are connected to, or integrated into, the Internet and report on the risk of such systems being compromised through malicious software and unauthorized intrusions into the system.

 . 7

.

Compliance with Federal Law Setting the National Election Day.

To achieve full compliance with the Federal laws that set the uniform day for appointing Presidential electors and electing members of  :

(a) The Attorney General shall take all necessary action to enforce 2 U.S.C. 7 and 3 U.S.C. 1 against   that violate these provisions by including absentee or mail-in ballots received after   in the final tabulation of votes for the appointment of Presidential electors and the election of members of   and  .

(b) Consistent with 52 U.S.C. 21001(b) and other applicable law,   shall condition any available funding to a   on that  's compliance with the requirement in 52 U.S.C. 21081(a)(6) that each   adopt uniform and nondiscriminatory standards within that   that define what constitutes a vote and what will be counted as a vote, including that, as prescribed in 2 U.S.C. 7 and 3 U.S.C. 1, there be a uniform and nondiscriminatory ballot receipt deadline of   for all methods of voting, excluding ballots cast in accordance with 52 U.S.C.  

et seq

., after which no additional votes may be cast.

 . 8

.

Preventing Foreign Interference and Unlawful Use of  .

The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of the  , shall prioritize enforcement of 52 U.S.C.   and other appropriate laws to prevent foreign nationals from contributing or donating in   elections. The Attorney General shall likewise prioritize enforcement of 31 U.S.C.  , which prohibits lobbying by organizations or entities that have received any Federal funds.

 . 9

.

  Address Executive Order  .

The heads of all agencies, and  , shall cease all agency actions implementing Executive Order   (Promoting Access to Voting), which was revoked by Executive Order   of on   ( ), and, within   of the date of this order, submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, a report describing compliance with this order.

 . 10

.

Severability.

If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any agency, person, or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other agencies, persons, or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 11

.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
