Section 1. Purpose. The   dream of homeownership depends on a dynamic housing market in which a varied inventory of new homes is built and renovated  . Layers of unnecessary regulatory barriers, slow permitting processes, and onerous mandates at all levels of government have delayed construction, restricted development, and driven up the costs of new housing. These constraints have made housing less affordable for many  .

It is the policy of my Administration to reduce regulatory barriers to building homes and to steward taxpayer dollars in a manner that promotes housing affordability.

 . 2. Targeting Federal Regulatory Barriers to Residential Development. (a) The Secretary of the  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , and   shall review and revise requirements related to stormwater, wetlands, lakes, rivers, and other bodies of water to reduce housing construction and ownership costs, streamline regulatory and agency decision-making processes, reduce property tax burdens, and increase insurability, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. Such requirements shall include:

(i)   for stormwater discharges from construction activity;

(ii) federally issued  ;

(iii) construction site and post-construction requirements for   permits;

(iv) Federal standards for permits under section 404 of the Clean Water Act ( ), 33 U.S.C.  , for the discharge of dredged and fill material into waters of  ; and

(v) Federal standards for assumption of dredge and fill permitting by   and tribes under section 404(g) of  .

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of   ( ) shall, within their respective authorities, consider eliminating unduly burdensome rules and reforming programs that constrain residential development and impede housing affordability, especially the construction of affordable single-family homes as well as suburban and exurban neighborhoods, including, as needed:

(i)   guidelines and investment priorities concerning development density;

(ii)  ;

(iii)   to Removing Obstacles to  ; and

(iv) the  's guidelines and regulations regarding chattel lending for manufactured housing and incentivizing low-balance home mortgages.

(c) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of FHFA shall, within their respective authorities, take appropriate action to reform and, where appropriate, eliminate unduly burdensome or costly energy-efficiency, water-use, or alternative-energy requirements regarding housing, including manufactured housing, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with applicable law. Such action shall include reviewing and revising, as needed:

(i)    ;

(ii)   and  ;

(iii) residential building energy codes subject to review by the Secretary of  ; and

(iv) water and energy efficiency improvement standards for  's duty to serve underserved market properties.

 . 3. Streamlining Federal Permitting Requirements for Residential Development. (a) The Chairman of   shall provide guidance to executive departments and agencies (agencies) on implementing   of  , including through the establishment, adoption, or application of categorical exclusions, in a manner that maximally exempts or reduces burdens on housing construction, preservation, adaptive re-use, and infrastructure that facilitates housing construction, such as roads, water, sewer, and other projects.

(b) The Chairman of   shall develop guidance on maximally exempting, or reducing burdens on, housing construction and infrastructure that facilitates housing construction, such as roads, water, sewer, and other projects under section 106 of   so that reporting requirements are no more burdensome than necessary.

 . 4.   Local Regulatory Best Practices. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall develop and promulgate a series of regulatory best practices for   and local governments to promote housing construction and affordability, including:

(i) streamlining permitting processes for housing developments by, for example, capping permitting timelines and fees; allowing by-right development for single-family homes; limiting retroactive application of new or changed building codes; allowing third-party inspections and appropriate builder choice on certified entities for inspections and studies; and ensuring swift dispute resolution with government agencies and private parties regarding construction matters;

(ii) curtailing mandates that increase housing construction costs, such as green-energy building requirements or other energy-choice restrictions, non-evidence-based building codes, and unreasonable building-code-adoption timelines;

(iii) re-examining restrictions on the use of manufactured or modular housing on the basis of the construction method rather than objective standards for building and safety, aesthetic requirements, or prohibitions on construction when comparable site-built housing is permitted; and

(iv) removing arbitrary limitations on residential housing development beyond urban centers, such as urban growth boundaries, growth moratoria, and commuting penalties.

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   shall, within their respective authorities, take steps to revise, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, regulations, guidance, grant applications and requirements, technical assistance, and other relevant agency documents or practices to advance the best practices issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.

 . 5.   in Opportunity Zones. (a) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall jointly evaluate Administration actions to better align programs and incentives with the Opportunity Zone tax incentives to expand investment in single-family home construction, including considering lawful mechanisms to link grants, financing tools, or other incentives with new or increased investment in   engaged in the development and sale of single-family homes.

(b) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall also assess opportunities to coordinate the Opportunity Zone incentives described in subsection (a) of this section with   under 26 U.S.C.   to promote single-family home construction in census tracts that qualify both as Qualified Opportunity Zones and as low-income communities for the purposes of  .

 . 6.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(e) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
