Section 1

.

Purpose

. Purpose. Removing unnecessary barriers to Federal employees accessing   data and promoting inter-agency data sharing are important steps toward eliminating bureaucratic duplication and inefficiency while enhancing the  's ability to detect overpayments and fraud.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. (a) "Agency" has the meaning given to it in section   of title  , United States Code, except that such term does not include   of the President or any components thereof.

(b) "Agency Head" means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, or Director. With respect to multimember agencies, "Agency Head" means the Chairman or equivalent official.

 . 3

.

Eliminating  .

(a) Agency Heads shall take all necessary steps, to the maximum extent consistent with law, to ensure   officials designated by the President or   (or their designees) have full and prompt access to all unclassified agency records, data, software systems, and information technology systems—or their equivalents if providing access to an equivalent dataset does not delay access—for purposes of pursuing Administration priorities related to the identification and elimination of waste, fraud, and abuse. This includes authorizing and facilitating both the intra- and inter-agency sharing and consolidation of unclassified agency records.

(b) Within   of the date of this order,   shall, to the maximum extent consistent with law, rescind or modify all agency guidance that serves as a barrier to the inter- or intra-agency sharing of unclassified information specified in subsection (a) of this section. Agency Heads shall also review agency regulations governing unclassified data access, including system of records notices, and, within   of the date of this order, submit a report to   cataloging those regulations and recommending whether any should be eliminated or modified to achieve the goals set forth in this order. Regulatory modifications pursuant to this order are exempt from Executive Order  .

(c) Immediately upon execution of this order,   shall take all necessary steps, to the maximum extent consistent with law, to ensure   has unfettered access to comprehensive data from all   programs that receive   funding, including, as appropriate, data generated by those programs but maintained in third-party databases.

(d) Immediately upon execution of this order and without limiting the above directives, the Secretary of   and the Secretary's designees shall receive, to the maximum extent consistent with law, unfettered access to all unemployment data and related payment records, including all such data and records currently available to  .

(e) This order supersedes any prior   and rules or regulations subject to direct Presidential rulemaking authority to the extent they serve as a barrier to the inter- or intra-agency sharing of unclassified information as specified in this order.

(f)   shall conduct a review of classified information policies to determine whether they result in the classification of materials beyond what is necessary to protect critical national security interests and, within   of the date of this order, submit a report to   cataloguing those classified information policies and recommending whether any should be eliminated or modified to achieve the goals set forth in this order.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
