1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sage Grouse Protection and Conservation Act
.
2.
Greater sage-grouse protection and conservation measures
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered western State
The term
covered western State
means each of the States of California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon,
South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
(2)
National Forest System land
The term
National Forest System land
means the Federal land within the National Forest System, as described in section 11(a) of the
Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C.
1609(a)).
(3)
Public land
The term
public land
has the meaning given the term
public lands
in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (
43 U.S.C. 1702
).
(4)
Sage grouse species
The term
sage grouse species
means the greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) and the Gunnison sage-grouse
(Centrocercus minimus).
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means—
(A)
the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land; and
(B)
the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to public land.
(6)
Statewide plan
The term
statewide plan
means a statewide conservation and management plan for the protection and recovery of sage grouse
species within a covered western State.
(b)
Secretarial participation in State planning process
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after receipt of notice from a covered western State that the State is
initiating or has initiated development of a statewide conservation and
management plan for the protection and recovery of the sage grouse species
within the State, the Secretary shall provide to the Governor of that
covered western State—
(A)
a commitment of the willingness of the Secretary to participate in the development;
(B)
a list of designees from the Department of the Interior or Department of Agriculture, as
applicable, who shall represent the Secretary as a participant in the
development; and
(C)
a list of other Federal departments that could be invited by the covered western State to
participate.
(2)
Access to information
Not later than 60 days after receipt of a notice described in paragraph (1) from the covered
western State, the Secretary
shall provide to the State all relevant scientific data, research, or
information regarding sage grouse species and habitat within the State to
appropriate State personnel to assist the State in the development.
(3)
Availability of Department personnel
The Secretary shall make personnel from Department of the Interior agencies or Department of
Agriculture agencies, respectively, available, on at least a monthly
basis, to meet with officials of the State to develop or implement a
statewide plan.
(c)
Contents of notice
A notice under subsection (b) shall—
(1)
be submitted by a Governor of any covered western State; and
(2)
include—
(A)
an invitation for the Secretary to participate in development of the statewide plan; and
(B)
a commitment that, not later than 2 years after the submission of a notice under this section, the
State shall present to the Secretary for review a 10-year (or longer) sage
grouse species conservation and management plan for the entire State.
(d)
Review of State plan
If the Secretary receives a statewide plan from a covered western State not later than 2 years
after receiving a notice under subsection (b) from the State, the
Secretary shall—
(1)
review the statewide plan using the best available science and data to determine if the statewide
plan is likely—
(A)
to conserve the sage grouse species to the point at which the measures provided pursuant to the
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
) are no longer
necessary in the State; and
(B)
to conserve the habitat essential to conserve the sage grouse species within the State; and
(2)
approve or endorse, or make comments regarding, the statewide plan not later than 120
days after the date of submission.
(e)
Actions after statewide plan is submitted
(1)
Hold on certain actions
Not later than 30 days after receipt of a statewide plan from a
covered western State, the Secretary shall—
(A)
take necessary steps to place on hold—
(i)
for a period of not less
than 10 years, all actions with respect to listing any sage grouse species
in that State under the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
);
(ii)
enforcement of any current listing of sage grouse species within that State under that Act; and
(iii)
designation of any critical habitat for any sage grouse species within that State under that Act;
and
(B)
withdraw any land use planning activities related to Federal management of sage grouse on Federal
land within that State and take immediate steps to amend all Federal land
use plans to comply with the statewide plan with respect to that State,
if—
(i)
the State presents to the Secretary the conservation and management plan of the State not later
than 2 years
after the State submits notice to the Secretary under subsection (b); and
(ii)
the State is implementing the plan.
(2)
Actions pursuant to NEPA
Any proposed action pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.) that occurs within a covered western State may not be denied or
restricted solely on the basis of a sage grouse species if the action is
consistent
with a statewide plan that has been submitted by the State to the
Secretary.
(f)
Existing State plans
The Secretary shall—
(1)
except as provided in paragraph (2), give effect to a statewide plan
that is submitted by a covered western State and approved or endorsed by
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service before the date of the
enactment of this Act, in accordance with the terms of approval or
endorsement of the plan by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
and
(2)
for purposes of subsections (b)(3) and (e), treat a statewide plan described in paragraph (1) as a
plan referred to in those
subsections.
