1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Russian Weapons Embargo Act of 2014
.
2.
Prohibition on direct or indirect use of funds to enter into contracts or agreements with
Rosoboronexport
(a)
Prohibition
(1)
In general
The head of an executive agency may not enter into a contract, subcontract, memorandum of
understanding, or
cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide a loan or
loan agreement to Rosoboronexport, any subsidiary or affiliate of
Rosoboronexport, or any entity that has a business
relationship with Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary or affiliate of
Rosoboronexport related to the design, manufacture, or sale of military
equipment.
(2)
Termination of existing contracts and agreements
The head of each executive agency shall immediately terminate any contract, subcontract, memorandum
of
understanding, cooperative agreement, loan, or loan agreement described in
paragraph (1).
(b)
National security waiver authority
The President may waive the applicability of subsection (a) if the President, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Director of
National
Intelligence, certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional
committees that, to the best of the President's knowledge—
(1)
Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal military equipment to, and the maintenance of
existing lethal military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab
Republic;
(2)
the armed forces of the Russian Federation have withdrawn from Crimea (other than military forces
present on military bases subject to agreements in force between the
Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Ukraine); and
(3)
agents of the Russian Federation are not taking active measures to destabilize the control of the
Government of Ukraine over eastern Ukraine (including through active
support of efforts to unlawfully occupy facilities of the Government of
Ukraine).
(c)
Reprogramming authority
(1)
In general
The President may reprogram funds appropriated or otherwise made available for Economic Support
Fund assistance or security assistance for the government of a country
that, on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act, enters into a contract, memorandum of
understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or makes a grant to, or
provides a loan or loan agreement to Rosoboronexport, or any subsidiary
or affiliate of Rosoboronexport, in an amount up to or equal to the total
amount
of each such contract, memorandum of understanding, cooperative agreement,
loan, or loan agreement.
(2)
Notification
The President shall notify Congress not later than 15 days before reprogramming funds under
paragraph (1).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given the term in
section 133
of title 41, United States Code.
3.
Report on Rosoboronexport activities
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the
following:
(1)
A list of the known transfers of lethal military equipment by Rosoboronexport to the Government of
the Syrian Arab Republic since March 15, 2011.
(2)
A list of the known contracts, if any, that Rosoboronexport has signed with the Government of the
Syrian Arab Republic since March 15, 2011.
(3)
A detailed list of all existing contracts, subcontracts, memorandums of understanding, cooperative
agreements, grants, loans, and loan guarantees between the Department of
Defense and Rosoboronexport, including a description of the transaction,
signing dates, values, and quantities.
(b)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a
classified annex.
(c)
Congressional defense committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given the term in
section 101(a)(16)
of title 10, United States Code.
