1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Regulatory Fairness Act of 2014
.
2.
Permits for dredged or
fill material
Section 404 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1344
) is amended by
striking
subsection (c) and inserting the following:
(c)
Denial or
restriction of use of specified disposal sites
(1)
In general
During and only during the period beginning on the date on which the Secretary publishes the notice
required under subsection (a) of this section and ending once the
Secretary issues a permit under such subsection, the Administrator may
deny or restrict the use of any defined area identified in such notice as
a specified disposal site if the Administrator determines, after notice
and opportunity for public comment, that the discharge of dredged or fill
material into such defined area will have an unacceptable adverse effect
on municipal water supplies, shellfish beds and fishery areas (including
spawning and breeding areas), wildlife, or recreational areas.
(2)
Consultation
Before making a determination under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall consult with the
Secretary.
(3)
Explanation of determination
The Administrator shall set forth in writing and make publicly available—
(A)
any findings of the Administrator;
(B)
the basis of and reasons for making a determination under paragraph (1); and
(C)
all information and data reviewed in making any determination under paragraph (1).
(4)
Previous action in absence of notice invalid
No previous action by the Administrator to deny or restrict the use or prohibit the specification
of any defined area as a disposal site, and which occurred in the absence
of the Secretary’s publishing of a notice under subsection (a) of this
section, is valid or otherwise enforceable.
(5)
Previous action after permit issued invalid
No previous action by the Administrator to deny or restrict the use or prohibit the specification
of any defined area as a disposal site and for which the Secretary had
issued a permit under subsection (a) of this section, and which occurred
after the Secretary issued the permit, is valid or otherwise enforceable.
.
