1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as
the
Separation of Powers Restoration
and Second Amendment Protection Act of 2013
.
2.
Sense of
Congress
(a)
In
general
That it is the sense
of Congress that any executive action issued by the President before, on, or
after the date of enactment of this Act that infringes on the powers and duties
of Congress under section 8 of article I of the Constitution or the Second
Amendment to the Constitution, or that would require the expenditure of Federal
funds not specifically appropriated for the purpose of the executive action, is
advisory only and has no force or effect unless enacted as law.
(b)
Definition of
executive action
In this Act, the term
executive
action
includes an Executive order, memoranda, proclamation, or signing
statement.
3.
Vitiation of
effect of executive action
Any
existing or proposed executive action that infringes on the powers and duties
of Congress under section 8 of article I of the Constitution or the Second
Amendment to the Constitution shall have no force or effect.
4.
Prohibition
against use of funds for certain purposes
No funds appropriated pursuant to any
provision of law may be used to promulgate or enforce any executive action that
infringes on the powers and duties of Congress under section 8 of article I of
the Constitution or the Second Amendment to the Constitution.
5.
Standing to
challenge executive action which impact article I, section 8 of the
Constitution or the Second Amendment to the Constitution
The following persons may bring an action in
an appropriate United States court to challenge the validity of any executive
action which infringes on the powers and duties of Congress under section 8 of
article I of the Constitution or the Second Amendment to the
Constitution.
(1)
Congress and
its members
Any member of the House of Representatives or the
Senate, or either or both chambers acting pursuant to vote, if the challenged
executive action—
(A)
infringes on the
powers and duties of Congress under article I, section 8 of the Constitution;
or
(B)
violates the
Second Amendment to the Constitution.
(2)
State and local
governments
The highest governmental official of any State,
commonwealth, district, territory, or possession of the United States, or any
political subdivision thereof, or the designee of such person, if the
challenged executive action infringes on a power of such State or on a power
afforded to such commonwealth, district, territory, or possession under any
congressional enactment or relevant treaty of the United States.
(3)
Aggrieved
persons
Any person aggrieved in a liberty or property interest
adversely affected directly by the challenged executive action.
