1.
Conveyance Federal property located in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and after completion of the
survey and appraisal described in this section, the Administrator of
General Services, on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior, shall convey
to the Corporation by quitclaim deed for the consideration described in
subsection (c), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and
to a parcel of real property described in subsection (b).
(b)
Legal description of property
(1)
In general
The parcel to be conveyed under subsection (a) consists of approximately 1,518 acres and
improvements comprising a former Distant Early Warning Line site in the
National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska near Wainwright, Alaska, and
described as United States Survey Number 5252 located within the Umiat
Meridian in—
(A)
Sections 3 and 4 within Township 14 North, Range 31 West;
(B)
Sections 17, 18, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 33, 34, and 35 within Township 15 North, Range 31 West; and
(C)
Section 13 within Township 15 North; Range 32.
(2)
Survey required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the exact acreage and legal
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall
be determined by a survey, paid for by the Corporation, that is
satisfactory to the Secretary.
(c)
Terms and conditions
(1)
Consideration
(A)
In general
As consideration for the conveyance of the property under subsection (a), the Corporation shall pay
to the Secretary an amount not less than the fair market value of the
conveyed property, to be determined as provided in subparagraph (B).
(B)
Appraisal
The fair market value of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined based
on an appraisal that—
(i)
is conducted by a licensed, independent appraiser that is approved by the Secretary and the
Corporation;
(ii)
is based on the highest and best use of the property;
(iii)
is approved by the Secretary; and
(iv)
is paid for by the Corporation.
(2)
Pre-conveyance entry
The Secretary, on terms and conditions the Secretary determines to be appropriate, may authorize
the Corporation to enter the property at no charge for pre-construction
and construction activities.
(3)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the
interests of the United States.
(d)
Exemption
Section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4332
) shall not apply to
any conveyance of property under this section.
(e)
Corporation defined
In this section, the term
Corporation
means the Olgoonik Corporation, an Alaska Native Corporation established under the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act (
43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.
).
