1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Naval Vessel Transfer Act of
2013
.
2.
Transfer of naval
vessels to certain foreign recipients
(a)
Transfers by
grant
The President is authorized to transfer vessels to foreign
countries on a grant basis under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 (22 U.S.C.
2321j), as follows:
(1)
Mexico
To
the Government of Mexico, the OLIVER HAZARD PERRY class guided missile frigates
USS CURTS (FFG–38) and USS MCCLUSKY (FFG–41).
(2)
Thailand
To the Government of Thailand, the OLIVER
HAZARD PERRY class guided missile frigates USS RENTZ (FFG–46) and USS
VANDEGRIFT (FFG–48).
(b)
Transfer by
sale
The President is authorized to transfer the OLIVER HAZARD
PERRY class guided missile frigates USS TAYLOR (FFG–50), USS GARY (FFG–51), USS
CARR (FFG–52), and USS ELROD (FFG–55) to the Taipei Economic and Cultural
Representative Office of the United States (which is the Taiwan instrumentality
designated pursuant to section 10(a) of the Taiwan Relations Act
(22 U.S.C.
3309(a))) on a sale basis under section 21 of the Arms Export
Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2761).
(c)
Alternative
transfer authority
Notwithstanding the authority provided in
subsections (a) and (b) to transfer specific vessels to specific countries, the
President is authorized, subject to the same conditions that would apply for
such country under this Act, to transfer any vessel named in this Act to any
country named in this Act such that the total number of vessels transferred to
such country does not exceed the total number of vessels authorized for
transfer to such country by this Act.
(d)
Grants not
counted in annual total of transferred excess defense
articles
The value of a vessel transferred to another country on
a grant basis pursuant to authority provided by subsection (a) or (c) shall not
be counted against the aggregate value of excess defense articles transferred
in any fiscal year under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C.
2321j).
(e)
Costs of
transfers
Any expense incurred by the United States in connection
with a transfer authorized by this section shall be charged to the recipient
notwithstanding section 516(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C.
2321j(e)).
(f)
Repair and
refurbishment in united states shipyards
To the maximum extent
practicable, the President shall require, as a condition of the transfer of a
vessel under this section, that the recipient to which the vessel is
transferred have such repair or refurbishment of the vessel as is needed,
before the vessel joins the naval forces of that recipient, performed at a
shipyard located in the United States, including a United States Navy
shipyard.
(g)
Expiration of
authority
The authority to transfer a vessel under this section
shall expire at the end of the 3-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act.
