1.
Keystone XL permit
approval
(a)
In
general
In accordance with clause 3 of section 8 of article I of
the Constitution (delegating to Congress the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations), TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. is authorized to
construct, connect, operate, and maintain pipeline facilities for the import of
crude oil and other hydrocarbons at the United States-Canada Border at Phillips
County, Montana, in accordance with the application filed with the Department
of State on May 4, 2012.
(b)
Presidential
permit not required
Notwithstanding Executive Order No. 13337 (3
U.S.C. 301 note), Executive Order No. 11423 (
3 U.S.C. 301
note), section 301 of
title 3, United States Code, and any other Executive order or provision of law,
no presidential permit shall be required for the facilities described in
subsection (a).
(c)
Environmental
impact statement
The final environmental impact statement issued
by the Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, the Final Evaluation Report
issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality on January 3, 2013,
and the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement issued on March 1,
2013, regarding the crude oil pipeline and appurtenant facilities associated
with the facilities described in subsection (a), shall be considered to
satisfy—
(1)
all requirements
of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
);
and
(2)
any other
provision of law that requires Federal agency consultation or review with
respect to the facilities described in subsection (a) and the related
facilities in the United States.
(d)
Permits
Any
Federal permit or authorization issued before the date of enactment of this Act
for the facilities described in subsection (a), and the related facilities in
the United States shall remain in effect.
(e)
Federal
judicial review
The facilities described in subsection (a), and
the related facilities in the United States, that are approved by this section,
and any permit, right-of-way, or other action taken to construct or complete
the project pursuant to Federal law, shall only be subject to judicial review
on direct appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit.
