1.
Authority to establish Negotiations Support Unit within Department of State
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
there is a need for the United States Government to maintain a permanent institutional hub for technical expertise, strategic advice, and knowledge management in negotiations, mediation, and peace processes in order to prioritize and invest in diplomacy;
(2)
the United States plays a unique role in enabling and supporting peace processes and complex political negotiations, the success of which are essential to stability and democracy around the world;
(3)
the meaningful engagement of conflict-affected communities, particularly women, youth, and other impacted populations, is vital to durable, implementable, and sustainable peace;
(4)
negotiation requires a specific technical and functional skillset, and thus institutional expertise in this practice area should include trained practitioners and subject matter experts;
(5)
such skills should continue to be employed as the United States advises and contributes to peace processes, including those where the United States plays a supporting role or is led by multilateral and international partners; and
(6)
training programs for United States diplomats should draw upon this expertise and United States lessons learned to help equip diplomats with skills to respond to peace processes and complex political negotiations, and how to request support.
(b)
Negotiations Support Unit
Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (
22 U.S.C. 2651a
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(p)
Negotiations Support Unit
(1)
Authority to establish
The Secretary of State may establish within the Department of State a unit to be known as the
Negotiations Support Unit
responsible for carrying out the functions described in paragraph (2), as appropriate.
(2)
Functions
The functions described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
Serving as a permanent institutional hub and resource for negotiations and peace process expertise and knowledge management.
(B)
Advising the Secretary of State, other relevant senior officials, members of the Foreign Service, and employees of the Department of State on the substance, process, and strategy of negotiations, mediation, peace processes, and other complex political negotiations from strategy and planning to implementation.
(C)
Supporting the development and implementation of United States policy related to complex political negotiations and peace processes, including those led by multilateral and international partners.
(D)
Advising on mediation and negotiations programs to implement United States policy.
(E)
Supporting training for Foreign Services Officers and civil servants on tailored negotiation and mediation skills.
(F)
Working with other governments, international organizations, and nongovernmental organizations, as appropriate, to support the development and implementation of United States policy on peace processes and complex political negotiations.
(G)
Any additional duties the Secretary of State may prescribe.
(3)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for the establishment of the Negotiations Support Unit under paragraph (1).
.
