1.
Report on dangers posed by nuclear reactors in areas that might experience armed conflict
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report assessing the following:
(1)
The dangers posed to the national security of the United States, to the interests of allies and partners of the United States, and to the safety and security of civilian populations, by nuclear reactors and nuclear power plants in existence as of such date of enactment or scheduled to be completed during the 10-year period beginning on such date of enactment and located in the following areas:
(A)
Regions that have experienced armed conflict in the 25 years preceding such date of enactment.
(B)
Areas that are contested or likely to experience armed conflict during the life span of those reactors and plants.
(C)
Areas that would be involved in any of the following hypothetical conflicts:
(i)
An attack by the Russian Federation on the eastern European countries of Estonia, Latvia, Belarus, Lithuania, or Poland.
(ii)
A conflict between India and Pakistan.
(iii)
A conflict over Taiwan.
(iv)
An attack by North Korea on South Korea.
(2)
Steps the United States or allies and partners of the United States can take to prevent, prepare for, and mitigate the risks to the national security of the United States, to the interests of allies and partners of the United States, and to the safety and security of civilian populations, posed by nuclear reactors and power plants in places that may experience armed conflict.
(b)
Form of report
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Appropriate committees of congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
