1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Military Tenant Advocacy Improvement Act
.
2.
Requirements for military tenant advocates for privatized military housing
(a)
In general
Subchapter V of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2890
the following new section:
2890a.
Military tenant advocates
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each installation of the Department of Defense at which military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter is offered has a military tenant advocate employed by the military department concerned.
(b)
Training and certification
(1)
The Secretary shall implement a uniform training and certification program for all individuals serving or selected to serve as a military tenant advocate under subsection (a).
(2)
The training and certification program under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, instruction on the following:
(A)
The authority of the Secretary to provide military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter.
(B)
The role, authority, and responsibility of housing management offices.
(C)
The Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights developed under section 2890 of this title.
(D)
The dispute resolution process under section 2894 of this title.
(E)
The resources available to tenants of military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter to ensure that all such tenants are living in housing that meets the standards described in the Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights.
(F)
Relevant national, State, and local housing, disability, and environmental laws.
(c)
Outreach
The Secretary shall conduct public outreach and education at each installation of the Department with a military tenant advocate under subsection (a) to provide members of the armed forces and their families with information on the identity, role, and authority of the military tenant advocate.
(d)
Hiring
When hiring or selecting individuals to serve in the role of military tenant advocate under subsection (a), no preferential consideration shall be given to individuals currently or previously employed by—
(1)
a housing management office;
(2)
a garrison command; or
(3)
a housing provider or manager owning or operating military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter.
.
(b)
Clerical and conforming amendments
(1)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2890 the following new item:
2890a. Military tenant advocates.
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
(A)
Rights and responsibilities of tenants
Section 2890(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(i)
in paragraph (5), by inserting
under section 2890a of this title
after
advocate
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (8), by striking
, as provided in section 2894(b)(4) of this title,
and inserting
under section 2890a of this title
.
(B)
Dispute resolution process
Section 2894(b)(4) of such title is amended by striking
military housing advocate employed by the military department concerned
and inserting
military tenant advocate under section 2890a of this title
.
