1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bicycles for Rural African Transport Act
.
2.
Rural mobility program in sub-Saharan Africa
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (referred to in this Act as
USAID
) shall establish, within the Office of Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment, a rural mobility program (referred to in this section as the
Program
) to carry out the purposes described in paragraph (2), including through grants made to eligible nongovernmental partner organizations, prioritizing those organizations with demonstrated success conducting rural mobility programs in the region to so carry out such purposes.
(2)
Purpose
The Program shall focus on country-driven projects within sub-Saharan Africa—
(A)
to promote rural communities’ access to critical services and opportunities, including education, health care, and livelihood opportunities, through access to affordable, fit-for-purpose bicycles; and
(B)
to provide support to sustainably increase access to critical services, such as education, health care, and livelihood opportunities in rural areas, including through support for rural-based mechanics, access to spare parts, reduction of social and gender-based stigma, and community project management capacity.
(3)
Partnerships
To the greatest extent practicable, the Program shall partner with existing entities overseas that have successful models for providing access to affordable bicycles to achieve development objectives.
(4)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated—
(A)
$3,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;
(B)
$3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025;
(C)
$6,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;
(D)
$6,000,000 for fiscal year 2027; and
(E)
$12,000,000 for fiscal year 2028 and for each fiscal year thereafter.
(b)
Report
(1)
Prior projects
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of USAID shall submit a report to the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
, the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives
regarding projects carried out by USAID during each of the fiscal years 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023 relating to the purposes described in subsection (a)(2). The report shall—
(A)
identify in which countries USAID embedded rural bicycle mobility into strategies, programs, and projects of USAID;
(B)
describe the mechanisms by which rural bicycle mobility was so embedded;
(C)
specify the number of bicycles distributed each fiscal year;
(D)
assess the outcomes for and impacts on participants in such projects; and
(E)
assess USAID’s efforts to disseminate lessons learned from such projects.
(2)
Current projects
Not later than December 30, 2025, and not later than each December 30 thereafter, the Administrator of USAID shall submit a report to the congressional committees listed in paragraph (1) regarding projects carried out by USAID during the immediately preceding fiscal year. Each such report shall include information relating to the matters described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).
