1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Aviation Minority Workforce Development Act of 2023
.
2.
Grant program to increase racial and gender minority access and representation in the aviation workforce
(a)
In general
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program to award grants to eligible entities to increase racial and gender minority access and representation in the aviation workforce.
(b)
Use of funds
Grant funds awarded under this section to an eligible entity shall be used to—
(1)
facilitate the creation of programs that educate and train students from under-represented racial and gender groups to participate in the aviation workforce;
(2)
increase access to, and the availability of, resources at existing aviation workforce programs for the express purpose of increasing representation of racial and gender minorities, including at minority serving institutions;
(3)
assist students from under-represented racial and gender minorities with education, apprenticeship, internship, transportation, and certification costs; and
(4)
increase outreach and recruitment to students from racial and gender minorities who are interested in working in the aviation industry.
(c)
Requirement
The Secretary shall ensure that not less than 40 percent of the total amount of funds appropriated in each fiscal year to carry out this section are awarded to minority-serving institutions.
(d)
Report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the first grant is awarded under the grant program under this section, and annually thereafter for as long as the Secretary is conducting such program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that evaluates such program, including—
(1)
a description of the number of grants awarded;
(2)
the amount of each grant;
(3)
the activities funded under each grant; and
(4)
the effectiveness of such funded activities in meeting the objective described in subsection (a).
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Community college
The term
community college
has the meaning given the term
junior or community college
in section 312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1058(f)
).
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
a minority-serving institution; and
(B)
a consortium of 1 or more institutions of higher education that has a partnership with 1 or more of the following entities:
(i)
A member of the aviation industry, such as a company or industry association.
(ii)
A labor-management organization.
(iii)
An aviation industry registered apprenticeship program.
(iv)
A nonprofit organization dedicated to helping individuals gain employment in the aviation industry.
(v)
A community college or a postsecondary vocational institution with experience in providing relevant education or training for individuals seeking employment in the aviation industry or a similar industry.
(3)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
).
(4)
Minority-serving institution
The term
minority-serving institution
means an institution described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)
).
(5)
Postsecondary vocational institution
The term
postsecondary vocational institution
has the meaning given that term in section 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002(c)
).
(6)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
