1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Everett Alvarez, Jr. Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2023
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Commander Everett Alvarez, Jr. (referred to in this section as
CDR Alvarez
), served with distinction in the Vietnam War and made historic sacrifices for the United States as—
(A)
the first United States pilot to be shot down and captured during the Vietnam War; and
(B)
the second-longest-held prisoner of war in the history of the United States, surviving more than 8
1/2
years in captivity.
(2)
CDR Alvarez was born in Salinas, California, in 1937 and was the grandchild of Mexican immigrants.
(3)
CDR Alvarez attended Salinas Union High School and Hartnell College and received a bachelor of science degree from Santa Clara University.
(4)
In 1960, CDR Alvarez joined the Navy and was commissioned as Ensign.
(5)
After receiving his commission, CDR Alvarez attended flight training at the Naval Air Training Command in Pensacola, Florida.
(6)
In June 1961, CDR Alvarez was transferred to the Naval Auxiliary Air Station in Kingsville, Texas, where he trained until December 1961.
(7)
CDR Alvarez was promoted to Lieutenant Junior Grade in April 1962.
(8)
In June 1962, CDR Alvarez joined Attack Squadron 144, nicknamed the
Roadrunners
, which was deployed to the Gulf of Tonkin before the United States entered the Vietnam War in August 1964.
(9)
On August 5, 1964, while flying Operation Pierce Arrow from the USS Constellation near the Vietnam-China border, CDR Alvarez’s A–4 Skyhawk was shot down, and he was captured by a Vietnamese fishing vessel.
(10)
Upon capture, CDR Alvarez was taken to the Hòa Lò Prison in Hanoi, known to many former prisoners as the
Hanoi Hilton
.
(11)
CDR Alvarez spent his first 13 months, 8 days, and 5 hours in isolation.
(12)
While at Hòa Lò, CDR Alvarez was repeatedly beaten and tortured, was fed inedible meals, and suffered malnourishment.
(13)
In September 1965, CDR Alvarez was moved to the
Briarpatch
, a prison camp west of Hanoi that had no electricity or running water.
(14)
Despite torture and interrogation, CDR Alvarez remained loyal to the United States and assisted other American prisoners of war.
(15)
CDR Alvarez, through his own actions, encouraged and inspired fellow prisoners of war to
return with honor
, which meant keeping their integrity in the face of torture and not cooperating with or divulging information to the enemy, so that they could return home having remained loyal to the United States.
(16)
At great risk, CDR Alvarez helped spread the means of communication among fellow prisoners of war, including the tap code and the mute hand code, to keep up spirits and stay organized.
(17)
On July 6, 1966, CDR Alvarez and 51 other American prisoners of war were forced to march in the
Hanoi Parade
where he was abused and attacked by mobs.
(18)
CDR Alvarez was released on February 12, 1973, after spending 3,113 days, or 8 years and 6 months, in captivity.
(19)
Following his release and hospitalization, CDR Alvarez resumed his service in the Navy, returning to Naval Air Station Kingsville for refresher flight training.
(20)
CDR Alvarez—
(A)
attended the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, and received a master’s degree in operations research and systems analysis in 1976; and
(B)
was inducted into the Alumni Hall of Fame of the Naval Postgraduate School on March 27, 2015.
(21)
CDR Alvarez served in Program Management at the Naval Air Systems command in Washington, DC, from October 1976 until his retirement.
(22)
CDR Alvarez retired from the Navy on June 30, 1980, after a 20-year career in the Navy.
(23)
In April 1981, President Ronald Reagan appointed CDR Alvarez as Deputy Director of the Peace Corps, where he served until 1982.
(24)
In July 1982, President Reagan nominated CDR Alvarez to be Deputy Administrator of the Veterans Administration, now known as the Department of Veterans Affairs, where he served until 1986.
(25)
CDR Alvarez earned his juris doctor from the George Washington University Law School in 1983 and has been admitted to the District of Columbia bar.
(26)
In February 1987, President Reagan appointed CDR Alvarez to the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, where he served for nearly 21 years.
(27)
For his service, CDR Alvarez was awarded the Silver Star Medal, 2 Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, 2 Bronze Star Medals, 2 Purple Hearts, and the Prisoner of War Medal.
(28)
On September 18, 2012, the United States Navy Memorial awarded CDR Alvarez the
Lone Sailor Award
.
(29)
The people of the United States honor the sacrifices of CDR Alvarez and his service to the United States.
3.
Congressional Gold Medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Everett Alvarez, Jr., in recognition of his service to the United States.
(b)
Design and striking
(1)
In general
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Image and inscription
The gold medal struck under paragraph (1) shall bear an image of, and the inscription of the name of, Everett Alvarez, Jr.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
