1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Katherine’s Lung Cancer Early Detection and Survival Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Lung cancer is the number 1 killer of all cancers.
(2)
Lung cancer causes more deaths than prostate cancer, breast cancer, and colorectal cancer combined.
(3)
The reason for the extremely low 5-year survival rate in lung cancer patients is the difficulty to diagnosis it at early stages, as patients have no symptoms at early stages.
(4)
For all stages of lung cancer, the overall 5-year survival rate is 19 percent, while such rate is 98 percent for prostate cancer (for all stages) and 90 percent for breast cancer (for all stages).
(5)
Early detection of lung cancer through screening could dramatically increase survival rates for patients.
(6)
Current law mandates that private health insurance cover, without any cost sharing requirements, screening for breast cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer at much earlier ages than for lung cancer, regardless of preexisting conditions of the individual to be screened.
(7)
Screening without cost sharing starts at age 40 for breast cancer but for lung cancer does not start until age 55, and then and only for those with a history of smoking thirty or more packs of cigarettes per year.
(8)
This Act would save lives and money through early detection of lung cancer by starting screening without cost sharing at age 40.
3.
Requiring coverage of lung cancer screenings for certain individuals without cost sharing
(a)
In general
Section 2713(a) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–13(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(3)
in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
(4)
by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
(5)
with respect to individuals 40 years of age or older, lung cancer screenings, regardless of the smoking history (if any) of such an individual.
; and
(5)
by adding at the end of the undesignated matter at the end the following:
For the purposes of this Act, and for the purposes of any other provision of law, the current recommendations of the United States Preventive Service Task Force regarding breast cancer screening, mammography, and prevention shall be considered the most current other than those issued in or around November 2009.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026.
