1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States Postal Service Stop and Study Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(2)
Network changes
The term
network changes
—
(A)
means permanent changes to the facilities or network of the Postal Service, including—
(i)
consolidation or partial consolidation of processing or logistics facilities;
(ii)
aggregation or consolidation of processing, distribution, or delivery operations;
(iii)
conversions or construction of facilities in order to centralize operations; or
(iv)
the systematic reduction of transportation trips between sorting facilities and delivery units; and
(B)
does not include temporary operational changes that are necessary to maintain reliable service between facilities or to alleviate congestion that has caused delays or disruption of service.
(3)
Postal Service
The term
Postal Service
means the United States Postal Service.
3.
Advisory opinion on network changes
(a)
Advisory opinion
(1)
Proposal
Prior to implementing any network changes, the Postal Service shall submit to the Commission a comprehensive proposal with respect to all such network changes using the procedures under section 3661(b) of title 39, United States Code.
(2)
Opinion
Not later than 180 days after the submission of a comprehensive proposal under paragraph (1), the Commission shall issue an opinion on the comprehensive proposal using the procedures under section 3661(c) of title 39, United States Code.
(3)
Reversal
An opinion under paragraph (2) shall also address the extent to which reversal of any network changes implemented on or after January 1, 2023, is advisable.
(4)
Access
The Postal Service shall provide the Commission any information and records the Commission deems necessary to issue an opinion under paragraph (2), including any access to Postal Service facilities.
(b)
Pause
The Postal Service shall not implement any proposed network changes until—
(1)
the Commission issues an opinion on the proposed network changes under subsection (a)(2); and
(2)
the Postal Service—
(A)
considers the opinion; and
(B)
submits to Congress and the Commission a response to the opinion that—
(i)
addresses the opinion and any recommendations therein; and
(ii)
explains the decision of the Postal Service to implement or not implement each recommendation contained in the opinion.
(c)
Prohibition
The Postal Service shall not implement any network changes if the opinion under subsection (a)(2) finds that such changes are likely to have a negative impact on service if implemented.
