1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Electrifying Rural Transportation Act of 2024
.
2.
Rural public transportation electrification program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Electric bus
The term
electric bus
means a battery-electric or plug-in hybrid bus.
(2)
Electric vehicle
The term
electric vehicle
—
(A)
means a battery-electric or plug-in hybrid vehicle; and
(B)
includes an electric bus.
(3)
Eligible recipient
The term
eligible recipient
means a State or Indian tribe that is eligible for a grant under section 5311 of title 49, United States Code.
(4)
Microtransit
The term
microtransit
—
(A)
means a technology-enabled service that—
(i)
uses multi-passenger vehicles to provide shared-ride on-demand services with dynamically generated routing; and
(ii)
is traditionally provided in a designated service area; and
(B)
includes service models such as—
(i)
first mile or last mile connections to fixed route services;
(ii)
hub to hub zone-based services;
(iii)
the commingling of ADA complementary paratransit services with general transit service; and
(iv)
point-to-point service within a specific zone or geographic area.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(b)
Grant program
The Secretary shall award grants to eligible recipients, in accordance with the formula under section 5311(c) of title 49, United States Code, for the electrification of buses, microtransit vehicles, and other public transportation fleet vehicles.
(c)
Eligible projects
An eligible recipient may use a grant received under subsection (b)—
(1)
to purchase—
(A)
an electric bus;
(B)
an electric vehicle, other than an electric bus, used for microtransit; or
(C)
charging infrastructure;
(2)
to renovate a bus facility by upgrading existing charging infrastructure or adding new charging infrastructure; or
(3)
for operating assistance for electric public transportation, including electric vehicles.
(d)
Technical assistance
The Secretary may use not more than 5 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal year to provide technical assistance to eligible recipients.
(e)
Workforce development training
An eligible recipient may use not more than 5 percent of the amount of a grant received under subsection (b) for workforce development training for a transit agency in a rural area, as defined in section 5302 of title 49, United States Code, including—
(1)
costs associated with obtaining proper operating and driving licenses for electric vehicles;
(2)
the cost of training for operations and maintenance of electric buses and other electric vehicles; and
(3)
the cost of training for operations and maintenance of charging equipment for electric vehicles.
(f)
Applicability of section 5311 requirements
The requirements under section 5311 of title 49, United States Code, (other than subsection (f)) shall apply with respect to a grant awarded under this section in the same manner as if the grant were awarded under such section 5311.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
