1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Gold Star Children Education Act of 2024
.
2.
Eligibility of dependents of certain deceased members of the Armed Forces for enrollment in Department of Defense Education Activity schools
(a)
In general
Chapter 108
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 2164a
the following new section:
2164b.
Eligibility of dependents of certain deceased members for enrollment in schools operated by Department of Defense Education Activity
(a)
In general
A dependent of a covered member is eligible to enroll in a school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity without regard to—
(1)
whether the dependent was enrolled in such a school on the date of the death of the member; or
(2)
the proximity of the school in which the dependent seeks enrollment to the location where the dependent resided on the date of the death of the member.
(b)
Tuition-Free, space-Available enrollment
Enrollment of a dependent of a covered member in a school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity shall be on a tuition-free and space-available basis.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered member
The term
covered member
means a member of the armed forces who died while serving on active duty or active Guard and Reserve duty.
(2)
School operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity
The term
school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity
means—
(A)
a Department of Defense domestic dependent elementary or secondary school established under section 2164 of this title; or
(B)
any elementary or secondary school for dependents of members of the armed forces operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 108 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2164a the following new item:
2164b. Eligibility of dependents of certain deceased members for enrollment in schools operated by Department of Defense Education Activity.
.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section may be construed to affect the eligibility of dependents of individuals described in subsection (j)(2) of section 2164 of title 10, United States Code, for enrollment in a Department of Defense education program provided by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a) of that section.
