1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
HUBS for Veterans Act
.
2.
Grants for provision of transition assistance to members and former members of the Armed Forces after separation, retirement, or discharge
(a)
Definitions
(1)
In general
In this section:
(A)
Covered individuals
The term
covered individual
means—
(i)
a member of the Armed Forces who is eligible for preseparation counseling under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code;
(ii)
a former member of the Armed Forces who is transitioning from service in the Armed Forces to civilian life; or
(iii)
a spouse of a member described in clause (i) or a former member described in clause (ii).
(B)
Eligible organizations
The term
eligible organization
means any nonprofit organization (including a veterans service organization), State board, or local board, that the Secretary of Labor determines, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, is suitable for receipt of a grant under this section pursuant to receipt by the Secretary of Labor of an application submitted under subsection (e)(1).
(C)
Nonprofit organization
The term
nonprofit organization
means an organization that is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
(D)
Secretary concerned
The term
Secretary concerned
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
(E)
Supportive services
The term
supportive services
means services such as transportation, child care, dependent care, housing, and needs-related payments, that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities supported under this Act.
(F)
Transition Assistance Program
The term
Transition Assistance Program
means the Transition Assistance Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code.
(G)
Veterans service organization
The term
veterans service organization
means an organization recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
WIOA terms
Except as otherwise provided, any term used in this Act that is defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
) shall have the meaning given to such term in such section.
(b)
Grant program
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, carry out a program to award grants to eligible organizations for the provision of assistance to covered individuals on the transition of a member or former member of the Armed Forces from service in the Armed Forces to civilian life.
(c)
Duration of program
The Secretary of Labor shall carry out the program under this section during the 5-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the program.
(d)
Grants
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Labor shall carry out the program under this section through the award of grants to eligible organizations for the provision of assistance described in subsection (b).
(2)
Matching funds required
A grant under this section shall be in an amount that does not exceed 50 percent of the amount required by the organization to provide the services described in subsection (f).
(e)
Selection of grant recipients
(1)
Applications
An organization seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary of Labor an application for such grant at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, may require.
(2)
Priority for hubs of services
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall give priority to an organization that provides multiple forms of services described in subsection (f).
(f)
Use of funds
The recipient of a grant under this section shall use the grant to coordinate for covered individuals any of the following:
(1)
Career and training services, including the provision of such services available through a workforce development system.
(2)
Mental health services provided by a provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs or through a nonprofit organization.
(3)
Legal assistance.
(4)
Supportive services.
(5)
Assistance with accessing benefits provided under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(6)
Non-clinical case management.
(7)
Entrepreneurship training.
(8)
Such other services that may be related to the assistance and services set forth in this subsection as the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, determines may lead directly to successful transition to civilian life.
(g)
Inclusion in Transition Assistance Program counseling
The Secretary concerned shall include in the information provided to a member of the Armed Forces during the Transition Assistance Program information regarding any recipient of a grant under this section that is located in the community in which that member will reside after separation, retirement, or discharge from the Armed Forces.
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Labor $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028 to carry out this section.
