1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Response to Conflict in Sudan Act of 2024
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Department of State should lead a robust and coordinated interagency response to the ongoing and worsening conflict in Sudan, including through diplomatic engagement with international partners and organizations, by effectively facilitating the safe and swift delivery of humanitarian assistance, and coordinating efforts for a future path to national recovery and democratic transition in Sudan.
3.
Special Envoy for Sudan at the Department of State
(a)
Establishment
There shall be a Special Envoy for Sudan at the Department of State (in this section referred to as the
Special Envoy
). The Special Envoy shall report directly to the Secretary of State and should not hold another position in the Department while holding the position of Special Envoy.
(b)
Duties
The Special Envoy shall—
(1)
lead United States diplomatic efforts to support and direct negotiations and humanitarian response efforts related to alleviating the crisis in Sudan;
(2)
be responsible for coordinating policy development and execution related to ending the conflict and to a future path to national recovery and democratic transition in Sudan across all bureaus in the Department and coordinating with interagency partners; and
(3)
consult regularly with the appropriate congressional committees, and keep such committees fully and currently informed on the status of diplomatic efforts and negotiations.
(c)
Staffing
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall ensure that the Special Envoy is fully staffed with personnel approved by the Envoy, including through reassignment of positions responsible for issues related to Sudan that currently exist within the Department, encouraging details, or assignment of employees of the Department from regional and functional bureaus with expertise relevant to Sudan, or through request for interagency details of individuals with relevant experience from other United States Government departments or agencies, including the Department of Treasury.
(2)
Briefing requirements
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Department should brief the appropriate congressional committees on the number of full-time equivalent positions supporting the Special Envoy, and the relevant expertise and duties of any employees of the Department or detailees.
(d)
Sunset
The position of the Special Envoy for Sudan shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
