1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Opportunity Grants Act of 2024
.
2.
Definitions
(a)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(b)
Community development financial institution
The term
community development financial institution
has the meaning given the term in section 103 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (
12 U.S.C. 4702
).
(c)
Covered lender
The term
covered lender
means a lender authorized under section 3(a)(2)(B).
(d)
Covered grant
The term
covered grant
means a grant issued by a covered lender.
(e)
Eligible recipient
The term
eligible recipient
means an eligible small business concern.
(f)
Minority Depository Institution
The term
minority depository institution
has the meaning given the term in section 308 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (
12 U.S.C. 1463
note).
(g)
Rural area
The term
rural area
means any county or other political subdivision of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States that is designated as a rural area by the Bureau of the Census.
3.
Grant program
(a)
Grant program
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall establish a grant program in accordance with this subsection for the purpose of awarding grants to individuals or entities who meet the criteria established under paragraph (2).
(2)
Eligibility criteria
(A)
Grant recipients
The Administrator shall, in accordance with the limits described in paragraph (4), award a grant to an eligible recipient if—
(i)
the eligible recipient is located in—
(I)
a low- to moderate-income community;
(II)
a HUBZone, as that term is defined in section 31(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 657a(b)
);
(III)
a rural area; or
(IV)
any area for which a disaster declaration or determination described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (E) of section 7(b)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(b)(2)
) has been made that has not terminated more than 2 years before the date (or later, as determined by the Administrator) on which a grant is made to the small business concern under the program, except that, in the case of a major disaster described in subsection (b)(2)(A) of such section, that period shall be 5 years;
(ii)
more than 50 percent of the employees of the eligible recipient reside in a low- or moderate-income community;
(iii)
the eligible recipient is a new business;
(iv)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, as described in paragraphs (5) and (6)(A), respectively, of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(a)
) which the Administrator, in carrying out the program, shall presume includes Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Asian Pacific Americans, and other minorities;
(v)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by women;
(vi)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by veterans or spouses of veterans;
(vii)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by a member of an Indian Tribe individually identified (including parenthetically) in the most recent list published pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (
25 U.S.C. 5131
);
(viii)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by an individual who has completed a term of imprisonment in a Federal, State, or local jail or prison; or
(ix)
the eligible recipient is owned and controlled by an individual with a disability, as that term is defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12102
).
(B)
Lenders
The Administrator shall, in accordance with the limits described in paragraph (4), award a grant to a lender if the lender is—
(i)
a community development financial institution;
(ii)
a minority depository institution;
(iii)
a lender under the Microloan Program established under subsection (m) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(m)
);
(iv)
a development company that is certified under title V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (
15 U.S.C. 695 et seq.
); or
(v)
a Community Advantage Small Business Lending Company, as described in section 120.10 of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations.
(3)
Limits
(A)
Number of grants
The number of grants awarded under this subsection shall not exceed 1,000,000 grants.
(B)
Amount of forgiveness
The amount of a grant awarded to an eligible recipient under this subsection shall not exceed $20,000.
(C)
No limit on other loans or grants
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, small business concerns receiving a covered grant under this Act shall not be prohibited from receiving another loan or grant.
(b)
Technical Assistance Grant Program
The Administrator shall establish a grant program to provide management and technical assistance to covered lenders making grants under this Act.
(c)
Regulations
The Administrator shall promulgate regulations related to the grant programs under this section not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(d)
Authorization of Appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for fiscal year 2025.
4.
Reporting requirements for grants
(a)
Data collection
With respect to each covered grant under this Act, the Administrator shall collect data on the eligible recipient of the covered grant, which shall include the gender, race, ethnicity, sex, age, Tribal affiliation, socioeconomic status, and disability status of each eligible recipient.
(b)
Publication
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall make publicly available on the website of the Small Business Administration, in a disaggregated format, the data collected under subsection (a), which shall be updated not later than 7 days after the date on which a covered grant is approved.
(2)
Privacy considerations
In publishing the data under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall take all necessary steps to protect the privacy of any individual whose personally identifiable information is included in that data.
