Section 1

.

Policy

.   recognizes that Africa is a region of growing economic opportunity and innovation and aims to expand a trade and investment partnership that is grounded in shared interests and mutual responsibility. Africa offers a diverse and broad range of trade and investment opportunities in national and regional markets.   will encourage   companies to seize the trade and investment opportunities offered by Africa's national and regional markets and help drive inclusive and sustained economic growth and the region's economic expansion, while also creating jobs here in  .

 . 2

.

Establishment

. Not   after the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish the President's   in Africa ( ).

 . 3

.

Membership

. (a) The   shall consist of not more than 15 private sector corporate members, including small businesses and representatives from infrastructure, agriculture, consumer goods, banking, services, and other industries. The   shall be broadly representative of the key industries with business interests in the functions of   as set forth in section 4 of this order. Appointments to the   shall be made without regard to political affiliation.

(b) Members of the   shall be appointed by the Secretary of  , in consultation with   ( ), which was authorized by statute in   (15 U.S.C.  ) and established by Executive Order   of September 30, 1993.

 . 4

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall advise the President, through the Secretary of  , on strengthening commercial engagement between   and Africa, with a focus on advancing the President's Doing Business in Africa Campaign as described in   of  .

(b) In providing the advice described in subsection (a) of this section, the   shall provide information, analysis, and recommendations to the President that address the following, in addition to other topics deemed relevant by the President, the Secretary of  , or  (i) creating jobs in   and Africa through trade and investment;

(ii) developing strategies by which the   private sector can identify and take advantage of trade and investment opportunities in Africa;

(iii) building lasting commercial partnerships between the   and   private sectors; (iv) facilitating   business participation in Africa's infrastructure development;

(v) contributing to the growth and improvement of Africa's agricultural sector by encouraging partnerships between   and   companies to bring innovative agricultural technologies to Africa;

(vi) making available to the   private sector an accurate understanding of the opportunities presented for increasing trade with and investment in Africa;

(vii) developing and strengthening partnerships and other mechanisms to increase   public and private sector financing of trade with and investment in Africa;

(viii) analyzing the effect of policies in   and Africa on   trade and investment interests in Africa;

(ix) identifying other means to expand commercial ties between   and Africa; and

(x) building the capacity of Africa's young entrepreneurs to develop trade and investment ties with   partners.

 . 5

.

Administration

. (a)   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without either compensation or reimbursement of expenses.

(c) The Secretary of   shall designate a senior officer or employee of   to serve as the Executive Director for  .

(d) The Secretary of   shall consult with the   on matters and activities pertaining to  , including on activities related to implementation of the advice of  . The Secretary of   shall invite representatives of   agencies to attend meetings of   when issues relevant to their responsibilities are to be considered.

 . 6

.

Termination

. The   shall function for such period as may be necessary but shall terminate   after the date of this order, unless extended by the President.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) Insofar as   (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act") may apply to  , any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .
