Section 1.

Purpose

. Hurricane Sandy made landfall on  , resulting in major flooding, extensive structural damage, and significant loss of life. A dangerous nor'easter followed   causing additional damage and undermining the recovery effort. As a result of these events, thousands of individuals were displaced and millions lost power, some for an extended period of time. Over 1,600 stores were closed, and fuel distribution was severely disrupted, further complicating the recovery effort.   and  —two of the  's most populous  —were especially hard hit by these storms.

  ( ) in   is leading the recovery efforts to assist the affected region. A disaster of   magnitude merits a comprehensive and collaborative approach to the long-term rebuilding plans for this critical region and its infrastructure. Rebuilding efforts must address economic conditions and the region's aged infrastructure—including its public housing, transportation systems, and utilities—and identify the requirements and resources necessary to bring these systems to a more resilient condition given both current and future risks.

This order establishes   (Task Force) to provide the coordination that is necessary to support these rebuilding objectives. In collaboration with the leadership provided through   ( ),   will identify opportunities for achieving rebuilding success, consistent with the  's commitment to support economic vitality, enhance public health and safety, protect and enhance natural and manmade infrastructure, and ensure appropriate accountability.   will work to ensure that   continues to provide appropriate resources to support affected  , local, and tribal communities to improve the region's resilience, health, and prosperity by building for the future.

 . 2.

Establishment of  

. There is established  , which shall be chaired by the Secretary of   (Chair).

(a) In addition to the  , the Task Force shall consist of the head of each of the following executive departments, agencies, and offices, or their designated representatives:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)   and  ;

(xxiii)  ; and

(xxiv) such other agencies and offices as the President may designate.

(b) The   shall regularly convene and preside at meetings of   and determine its agenda as   exercises the functions set forth in section 3 of this order. The  's duties shall also include:

(i) communicating and engaging with  , tribes, local governments, Members of  , other stakeholders and interested parties, and the public on matters pertaining to rebuilding in the affected region;

(ii) coordinating the efforts of executive departments, agencies, and offices related to the functions of  ; and

(iii) specifying the form and subject matter of regular reports to be submitted concurrently to  ,  , and the  .

 . 3.

Functions of  

. Consistent with the principles of the  , including individual and family empowerment, leadership and local primacy, partnership and inclusiveness, public information, unity of effort, timeliness and flexibility, resilience and sustainability, and psychological and emotional recovery, the Task Force shall:

(a) work closely with   in the coordination of rebuilding efforts with the various intergovernmental activities taken in conjunction with the  ;

(b) describe the potentially relevant authorities and resources of each member of  ;

(c) identify and work to remove obstacles to resilient rebuilding in a manner that addresses existing and future risks and vulnerabilities and promotes the long-term sustainability of communities and ecosystems;

(d) coordinate with entities in the affected region in efforts to:

(i) ensure the prompt and orderly transition of affected individuals and families into safe and sanitary long-term housing;

(ii) plan for the rebuilding of critical infrastructure damaged by   in a manner that accounts for current vulnerabilities to extreme weather events and increases community and regional resilience in responding to future impacts;

(iii) support the strengthening of the economy; and

(iv) understand current vulnerabilities and future risks from extreme weather events, and identify resources and authorities that can contribute to strengthening community and regional resilience as critical infrastructure is rebuilt and ecosystem functions are restored;

(e) prior to the termination of  , present to the President a Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Strategy (Strategy) as provided in section 5 of this order;

(f) engage local stakeholders, communities, the public, Members of  , and other officials throughout the areas affected by   to ensure that all parties have an opportunity to share their needs and viewpoints to inform the work of  , including the development of the Strategy; and

(g) communicate with affected tribes in a manner consistent with Executive Order  , regarding the consultation and coordination with   tribal governments.

 . 4.

Task Force Advisory Group

. The   shall, at his discretion, establish an   to advise   and invite individuals to participate in it. Participants shall be elected  , local, and tribal officials and may include Governors, Mayors, County Executives, tribal elected officials, and other elected officials from the affected region as the   deems appropriate. Members of  , acting in their official capacity, may designate employees with authority to act on their behalf. The   shall generally advise the Task Force as requested by the  , and shall provide input on each element of the Strategy described in section 5 of this order.

 . 5.

Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Strategy

. (a) Within   of the first convening of its members, the Task Force shall prepare a Strategy that includes:

(i) a summary of Task Force activities;

(ii) a long-term rebuilding plan that includes input from  , local, and tribal officials and is supported by Federal agencies, which is informed by an assessment of current vulnerabilities to extreme weather events and seeks to mitigate future risks;

(iii) specific outcomes, goals, and actions by  , local, and tribal governments and the private sector, such as the establishment of permanent entities, as well as any proposed legislative, regulatory, or other actions that could support the affected region's rebuilding; and

(iv) a plan for monitoring progress.

(b) The executive departments, agencies, and offices listed in section 2(a) of this order shall, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, align their relevant programs and authorities with the Strategy.

 . 6.

Administration

. (a) The Task Force shall have a staff, headed by an Executive Director, which shall provide support for the functions of  .

(b) The Executive Director shall be selected by the   and shall supervise, direct, and be accountable for the administration and support of  .

(c) At the request of the  , other executive departments and agencies shall serve in an advisory role to   on issues within their expertise.

(d) The Task Force may establish technical working groups of Task Force members, their representatives, and invited   members and elected officials, or their designated employees, as necessary to provide advice in support of their function.

(e) The Task Force shall terminate   after the completion of the Strategy described in section 5 of this order, after which   and the lead agencies for  , as described in the  , shall continue the   rebuilding coordinating roles described in section 3 of this order to the extent consistent with the  .

 . 7.

General Provisions

. (a) For purposes of this order, "affected tribe" means any   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe pursuant to   of   (25 U.S.C. 479a), located or with interests in the affected area.

(b) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the Task Force with such administrative services, facilities, staff, equipment, mobile communications, and other support services as may be necessary for   to carry out its functions, using funds provided from   by agreement with   and any other available and appropriate funding.

(c) Members of  , and any technical working groups shall serve without any additional compensation for their work on  , or technical working group.

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law, and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
