Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established  ) within   ( ) to support the social innovation and civic participation agenda of  .

 . 2.

Mission and Functions of the  .

The   shall support the nationwide "Call To Service" campaign authorized in the Serve America Act (Public Law 111-13) by:

(a) identifying the key attributes of effective community-developed solutions to our national problems;

(b) identifying specific policy areas in which   is investing significant resources that lend themselves to cross-sector collaboration and providing recommendations for such collaborations;

(c) highlighting examples of best practices, tools, and models that are making a demonstrable positive impact in communities and fostering increased cross-sector collaboration and civic participation;

(d) making recommendations to the President on how to engage individuals,   and local governments, institutions of higher education, non-profit and philanthropic organizations, community groups, and businesses to support innovative community-developed solutions that have a significant impact in solving our  's most serious problems; and

(e) honoring and highlighting the work of leaders in service and social innovation who are making a significant impact in their communities.

 . 3.

Membership.

(a) The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members from outside   appointed by the President. The Chair of   of the   shall also serve on the  . Appointed members of the   may include individuals with relevant experience or subject matter expertise that the President deems appropriate, as well as individuals who may serve as representatives of a variety of sectors, including, among others,   and local governments, institutions of higher education, non-profit and philanthropic organizations, community groups, and businesses.

(b) The President shall designate one of the members of the   to serve as  . The   shall convene and preside at meetings of the  .

(c) The term of office of members appointed by the President shall be  , and members shall be eligible for reappointment. Members may continue to serve after the expiration of their terms until the President appoints a successor. A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve only for the unexpired term of such vacancy.

 . 4.

Administration.

(a) The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(b) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  .

(c) The members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . Members of the   may, however, receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(d) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Chief Executive Officer of the   in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

 . 5.

Termination.

The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless renewed by the President.

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
