Section 1

.

Authorities and Functions under the Act

. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the authorities granted to and functions specifically assigned to the President under title I of the Act are delegated and assigned, respectively, to   (U.S. Trade Representative).

(b) The exercise of the following authorities of, and functions specifically assigned to the President under title I of the Act are not delegated or assigned under this order:

(i) section 104(c) of the Act;

(ii) sections 105(a) and (b) of the Act; and

(iii) sections 506A(d)(3)(B) and (d)(4)(C) of the Trade Act of 1974 (as amended by the Act).

(c) The functions of the President under section 13(c) of the AGOA Acceleration Act of  , as added by section 109 of the Act, are assigned to  , in collaboration with the Secretary of Agriculture.

(d) The functions of the President under section 110(a) of the Act are assigned to  , in consultation with the Secretary of  .

 . 2

.

  and Eliminating Hunger

.  , with the advice and assistance of other executive departments and agencies involved in international programs to reduce poverty and eliminate hunger, shall perform the reporting function under section 701 of the Act.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) In exercising authority delegated by or performing functions assigned in this order, officers of  :

(i) shall ensure that all actions taken by them are consistent with the President's constitutional authority to (A) conduct the foreign affairs of  , including the commencement, conduct, and termination of negotiations with foreign countries and international organizations; (B) withhold information the disclosure of which could impair the foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the  , or the performance of the  's constitutional duties; (C) recommend for congressional consideration such measures as the President may judge necessary or expedient; and (D) supervise the executive branch; and

(ii) may redelegate authority delegated by this order and may further assign functions assigned by this order to officers of any other department or agency within the executive branch to the extent permitted by law, and such redelegation or further assignment shall be published in  . (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
