Section 1.

(a) All property and interests in property of  , including  , that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any foreign branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) All property and interests in property of any   financial institution, including  , that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any foreign branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(c) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

 . 2.

I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 3.

The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to: (a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 4.

(a) The prohibitions in section 1 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

(b) The prohibitions in section 1 of this order do not apply to property and interests in property of   that were blocked pursuant to Executive Order    , and thereafter made subject to the transfer directives set forth in Executive Order  , and implementing regulations thereunder.

 . 5.

(a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 6.

Nothing in section 1 of this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 7.

For the purposes of this order: (a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term "Government of Iran" means  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including  , and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;

(e) the term " " means the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements; and

(f) the term "  financial institution" means a financial institution organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), any financial institution in  , any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by  , and any financial institution, wherever located, owned or controlled by any of the foregoing.

 . 8.

For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 9.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, other than the purposes described in section 11. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions and authorities to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 10.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 1245(d)(1)(A) of the   and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 1245(g)(1) of the   to the extent necessary to exercise the other functions and authorities delegated in this section and may redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law.

 . 11.

The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , is hereby authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 1245(d)(4)(D) of the   and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by sections 1245(e)(1) and 1245(e)(2) of the   and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 1245(g)(1) of the   to the extent necessary to exercise the other functions and authorities delegated in this section and may redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law.

 . 12.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 13.

The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 . 14.

This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .
