Section 1

.

Policy

. The mission of   is to serve its people. In order to accomplish its mission, the Government lawfully collects, maintains, and uses large amounts of information about people in a wide range of contexts. Protecting privacy in the collection and handling of this information is fundamental to the successful accomplishment of the  's mission. The proper functioning of Government requires the public's trust, and to maintain that trust the Government must strive to uphold the highest standards for collecting, maintaining, and using personal data. Privacy has been at the heart of our democracy from its inception, and we need it now more than ever.

Executive departments and agencies (agencies) already take seriously their mission to protect privacy and have been working diligently to advance that mission through existing interagency mechanisms.  's challenges, however, require that we find even more effective and innovative ways to improve the  's efforts. Our efforts to meet these new challenges and preserve our core value of privacy, while delivering better and more effective Government services for the   people, demand leadership and enhanced coordination and collaboration among a diverse group of stakeholders and experts.

Therefore, it shall be the policy of   that agencies shall establish an interagency support structure that: builds on existing interagency efforts to protect privacy and provides expertise and assistance to agencies; expands the skill and career development opportunities of agency privacy professionals; improves the management of agency privacy programs by identifying and sharing lessons learned and best practices; and promotes collaboration between and among agency privacy professionals to reduce unnecessary duplication of efforts and to ensure the effective, efficient, and consistent implementation of privacy policy Government-wide.

 . 2

.

Policy on Senior Agency Officials for Privacy

. Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   (Director) shall issue a revised policy on the role and designation of   Officials for Privacy. The policy shall provide guidance on   responsibilities at their agencies, required level of expertise, adequate level of resources, and other matters as determined by the Director. Agencies shall implement the requirements of the policy within a reasonable time frame as prescribed by the Director and consistent with applicable law.

 . 3

.

Responsibilities of Agency Heads

. The head of each agency, consistent with guidance to be issued by the Director as required in section 2 of this order, shall designate or re-designate a Senior Agency Official for Privacy with the experience and skills necessary to manage an agency-wide privacy program. In addition, the head of each agency, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with ongoing activities, shall work with  , established in section 4 of this order.

 . 4

.

 . (a)

Establishment

. There is hereby established  ) as the principal interagency forum to improve the   privacy practices of agencies and entities acting on their behalf. The establishment of   will help Senior Agency Officials for Privacy at agencies better coordinate and collaborate, educate the Federal workforce, and exchange best practices. The activities of   will reinforce the essential work that agency privacy officials undertake every day to protect privacy.

(b)

Membership

. The Chair of the Privacy Council shall be the Deputy Director for  . The   may designate a Vice Chair, establish working groups, and assign responsibilities for operations of   as he or she deems necessary. In addition to the  , the   shall be composed of   Officials for Privacy at the following agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii) Department of the  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v) Department of the Interior;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

( ;

(xii)  ;

( ;

( ;

( ;

(xvi) Environmental Protection Agency;

(  of the Director of  ;

(xviii) Small Business Administration;

(xix)  ;

(   ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ; and

(xxiv)  .

  may also include other officials from agencies and offices, as the   may designate, and the   may invite the participation of officials from such independent agencies as he or she deems appropriate.

(c)

Functions

.   shall:

(i) develop recommendations for   privacy policies and requirements;

(ii) coordinate and share ideas, best practices, and approaches for protecting privacy and implementing appropriate privacy safeguards;

(iii) assess and recommend how best to address the hiring, training, and professional development needs of   with respect to privacy matters; and

(iv) perform other privacy-related functions, consistent with law, as designated by the  .

(d)

Coordination

.

(i) The Chair and the   shall coordinate with  ) to promote consistency and efficiency across the executive branch when addressing privacy and information security issues. In addition,   and the CIO Council shall coordinate to ensure that the work of the two councils is complementary and not duplicative.

(ii) The Chair and   should coordinate, as appropriate, with such other interagency councils and councils and offices within   of the President, as appropriate, including  , the Chief  , the President's  ,  ,  ,  ,   staff,  ,  ,  , and  .

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) Independent agencies are encouraged to comply with the requirements of this order.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
