Section 1.

 .

(a) There is established  ). The   shall consist of 10   appointed by the President (Members), of whom no more than five shall be of the same political party. The term of service for each Member appointed to serve on the   shall be  , but a Member may be reappointed for additional terms.

(b) The President shall designate two Members, who shall not be members of the same political party, to serve as   of the  .

 . 2.

Functions.

The   shall meet at the call of the Secretary of   or   of the   to exchange views, information, or advice with the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Assistant to the President for   and  ; the Assistant to the President for   and Public Engagement; the Assistant Secretary of  ; the Commander,  ; the Chief,  ;  ; and other appropriate officials of   and  , and appropriate officials of other executive departments or agencies as may be designated by the Secretary of   or the Secretary of  . Such views, information, or advice shall concern:

(a) matters involving   of the various  ;

(b) homeland defense;

(c) civil support;

(d) synchronization and integration of   and Federal military activities in  ; and

(e) other matters of mutual interest pertaining to  , homeland defense, and civil support activities.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) The Secretary of   shall designate an Executive Director to coordinate the work of the  .

(b) Members shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, Members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.

(c) Upon the joint request of  , the Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, provide the   with administrative support, assignment or detail of personnel, and information as may be necessary for the performance of the  's functions.

(d) The   may establish subcommittees of the  . These subcommittees shall consist exclusively of Members of the   and any designated employees of a Member with authority to act on the Member's behalf, as appropriate to aid the   in carrying out its functions under this order.

(e) The   may establish a charter that is consistent with the terms of this order to refine further its purpose, scope, and objectives and to allocate duties, as appropriate, among members.

 . 4.

Definitions.

As used in this order:

(a) the term "State" has the meaning provided in paragraph (15) of section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101(15)); and

(b) the term "Governor" has the meaning provided in paragraph (5) of section 102 of the   Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(5)).

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) the authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
