Section 1.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of  :

(i) to have engaged in acts that directly or indirectly threaten the peace, security, or stability of  , such as actions that have the purpose or effect of undermining or obstructing the political reform process or the peace process with ethnic minorities in  ;

(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, the commission of human rights abuses in  ;

(iii) to have, directly or indirectly, imported, exported, reexported, sold or supplied arms or related materiel from   or   to   or  ;

(iv) to be a senior official of an entity that has engaged in the acts described in subsection (a)(i)-(iii) of this section;

(v) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the acts described in subsection (a)(i)-(iii) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(vi) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2.

I hereby amend: (a) Executive Order  , by removing "logistical, or technical" in section 1(b)(ii) and replacing it with "or technological"; and

(b) Executive Order  , by removing "logistical, or technical" in section 1(b)(iv) and replacing it with "or technological."

 . 3.

I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as modified in scope in Executive Order   and in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 4

.

The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to: (a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 5.

I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and I hereby suspend entry into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 6.

Nothing in section 1 of this order, section 1 of Executive Order  , section 1 of Executive Order  , sections 1 through 3 of Executive Order  , or sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof, except to the extent that engaging in such transactions would require the issuance of a statutory waiver and such a waiver is not issued.

 . 7.

(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 8.

For the purposes of this order: (a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) The term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 9.

For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as modified in scope in Executive Order   and in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 10

.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 11

.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
