Section 1.

Purpose.

The ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes provide jobs, food, energy resources, ecological services, recreation, and tourism opportunities, and play critical roles in our  's transportation, economy, and trade, as well as the global mobility of our   and the maintenance of international peace and security. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and resulting environmental crisis is a stark reminder of how vulnerable our marine environments are, and how much communities and the   rely on healthy and resilient ocean and coastal ecosystems.  's stewardship of the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes is intrinsically linked to environmental sustainability, human health and well-being, national prosperity, adaptation to climate and other environmental changes, social justice, international diplomacy, and national and homeland security.

This order adopts the recommendations of  , except where otherwise provided in this order, and directs executive agencies to implement those recommendations under the guidance of  . Based on those recommendations, this order establishes a national policy to ensure the protection, maintenance, and restoration of the health of ocean, coastal, and   ecosystems and resources, enhance the sustainability of ocean and coastal economies, preserve our maritime heritage, support sustainable uses and access, provide for adaptive management to enhance our understanding of and capacity to respond to climate change and ocean acidification, and coordinate with our national security and foreign policy interests.

This order also provides for the development of coastal and marine spatial plans that build upon and improve existing  , tribal, local, and regional decisionmaking and planning processes. These regional plans will enable a more integrated, comprehensive, ecosystem-based, flexible, and proactive approach to planning and managing sustainable multiple uses across sectors and improve the conservation of the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes.

 . 2.

Policy.

(a) To achieve an   whose stewardship ensures that the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes are healthy and resilient, safe and productive, and understood and treasured so as to promote the well-being, prosperity, and security of present and future generations, it is the policy of   to:

(i) protect, maintain, and restore the health and biological diversity of ocean, coastal, and   ecosystems and resources;

(ii) improve the resiliency of ocean, coastal, and   ecosystems, communities, and economies;

(iii) bolster the conservation and sustainable uses of land in ways that will improve the health of ocean, coastal, and   ecosystems;

(iv) use the best available science and knowledge to inform decisions affecting the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes, and enhance humanity's capacity to understand, respond, and adapt to a changing global environment;

(v) support sustainable, safe, secure, and productive access to, and uses of the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes;

(vi) respect and preserve our  's maritime heritage, including our social, cultural, recreational, and historical values;

(vii) exercise rights and jurisdiction and perform duties in accordance with applicable international law, including respect for and preservation of navigational rights and freedoms, which are essential for the global economy and international peace and security;

(viii) increase scientific understanding of ocean, coastal, and   ecosystems as part of the global interconnected systems of air, land, ice, and water, including their relationships to humans and their activities;

(ix) improve our understanding and awareness of changing environmental conditions, trends, and their causes, and of human activities taking place in ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes waters; and

(x) foster a public understanding of the value of the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes to build a foundation for improved stewardship.

(b)   shall promote this policy by:

(i) ensuring a comprehensive and collaborative framework for the stewardship of the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes that facilitates cohesive actions across  , as well as participation of  , tribal, and local authorities, regional governance structures, nongovernmental organizations, the public, and the private sector;

(ii) cooperating and exercising leadership at the international level;

(iii) pursuing   accession to the Law of the Sea Convention; and

(iv) supporting ocean stewardship in a fiscally responsible manner.

 . 3.

Definitions.

As used in this order:

(a) "Final Recommendations" means the

Final Recommendations of the Interagency Ocean Policy Task Force

that shall be made publicly available and for which a notice of public availability shall be published in  .

(b) The term "coastal and marine spatial planning" means a comprehensive, adaptive, integrated, ecosystem-based, and transparent spatial planning process, based on sound science, for analyzing current and anticipated uses of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes areas.   and marine spatial planning identifies areas most suitable for various types or classes of activities in order to reduce conflicts among uses, reduce environmental impacts, facilitate compatible uses, and preserve critical ecosystem services to meet economic, environmental, security, and social objectives. In practical terms, coastal and marine spatial planning provides a public policy process for society to better determine how the ocean, our coasts, and   are sustainably used and protected—now and for future generations.

(c) The term "coastal and marine spatial plans" means the plans that are certified by   as developed in accordance with the definition, goals, principles, and process described in  .

 . 4.

Establishment of  .

(a) There is hereby established  ).

(b) The   shall consist of the following:

(i) the Chair of   and the Director of  , who shall be   of the  ;

(ii) the Secretaries of State,  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, Energy, and  , the Attorney General,  , the Director of  , the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere (Administrator of  ),  , the Director of  , the Director of  , and the Chairman of  ;

(iii)   and the Assistants to the President for   and  , Domestic Policy, Energy and Climate Change, and Economic Policy;

(iv) an employee of   designated by the Vice President; and

(v) such other officers or employees of   as   of the   may from time to time designate.

(c) The Co-Chairs shall invite the participation of the Chairman of  , to the extent consistent with the  's statutory authorities and legal obligations, and may invite the participation of such other independent agencies as the   deems appropriate.

(d)   of the  , in consultation with   and the Assistant to the President for   and  , shall regularly convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, direct its work, and, as appropriate to address particular subject matters, establish and direct committees of the   that shall consist exclusively of members of the  .

(e) A member of the   may designate, to perform committee functions of the member, any person who is within such member's department, agency, or office and who is (i) an officer of   appointed by the President, (ii) a member of   or  , (iii) a general officer or flag officer, or (iv) an employee of the Vice President.

(f) Consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   and   shall provide the   with funding, including through   or  .   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, provide administrative support necessary to implement this order.

(g) The day-to-day operations of the   shall be administered by a Director and a Deputy Director, who shall supervise a full-time staff to assist   in their implementation of this order.

 . 5.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall have the structure and function and operate as defined in the Final Recommendations. The   is authorized, after the  's   of operation, to make modifications to its structure, function, and operations to improve its effectiveness and efficiency in furthering the policy set forth in section 2 of this order.

(b) To implement the policy set forth in section 2 of this order, the   shall provide appropriate direction to ensure that executive departments', agencies', or offices' decisions and actions affecting the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes will be guided by the stewardship principles and national priority objectives set forth in the Final Recommendations, to the extent consistent with applicable law. The   shall base its decisions on the consensus of its members. With respect to those matters in which consensus cannot be reached,   shall coordinate with   and, as appropriate, the Assistants to the President for  , and Economic Policy, and the employee of   designated by the Vice President, subject to the limitations set forth in section 9 of this order, to present the disputed issue or issues for decision by the President.

 . 6.

Agency Responsibilities.

(a) All executive departments, agencies, and offices that are members of the   and any other executive department, agency, or office whose actions affect the ocean, our coasts, and the Great Lakes shall, to the fullest extent consistent with applicable law:

(i) take such action as necessary to implement the policy set forth in section 2 of this order and the stewardship principles and national priority objectives as set forth in the Final Recommendations and subsequent guidance from the  ; and

(ii) participate in the process for coastal and marine spatial planning and comply with   certified coastal and marine spatial plans, as described in   and subsequent guidance from the  .

(b) Each executive department, agency, and office that is required to take actions under this order shall prepare and make publicly available an   report including a concise description of actions taken by the agency in   to implement the order, a description of written comments by persons or organizations regarding the agency's compliance with this order, and the agency's response to such comments.

(c) Each executive department, agency, and office that is required to take actions under this order shall coordinate and contribute resources, as appropriate, to assist in establishing a common information management system as defined in the Final Recommendations and shall be held accountable for managing its own information assets by keeping them current, easily accessible, and consistent with Federal standards.

(d) To the extent permitted by law, executive departments, agencies, and offices shall provide the   such information, support, and assistance as the  , through  , may request.

 . 7.

 .

The   shall establish a   that shall consist of 18 officials from  , tribal, and local governments in accordance with the Final Recommendations. The   may establish subcommittees chaired by representatives of  . These subcommittees may include additional representatives from  , tribal, and local governments, as appropriate to provide for greater collaboration and diversity of views.

 . 8.

Regional Advisory Committees.

The lead  , agency, or office for each regional planning body established for the development of regional coastal and marine spatial plans, in consultation with their nonfederal co-lead agencies and membership of their regional planning body, shall establish such advisory committees under  , 5 U.S.C. App., as they deem necessary to provide information and to advise the regional planning body on the development of regional coastal and marine spatial plans to promote the policy established in section 2 of this order.

 . 9.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order, the establishment of the  , and the Final Recommendations shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department or agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions assigned by the President to   or   (including subordinate bodies) relating to matters affecting foreign affairs, national security, homeland security, or intelligence.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) In carrying out the provisions of this order and implementing the Final Recommendations, all actions of the   and the executive departments, agencies, and offices that constitute it shall be consistent with applicable international law, including customary international law, such as that reflected in the Law of the Sea Convention.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 10.

Revocation.

Executive Order   of  , is hereby revoked.
