Section 1.

Policy.

Sixteen percent of the   population lives in rural counties. Strong, sustainable rural communities are essential to winning the future and ensuring   competitiveness in  . These communities supply our food, fiber, and energy, safeguard our natural resources, and are essential in the development of science and innovation. Though rural communities face numerous challenges, they also present enormous economic potential.   has an important role to play in order to expand access to the capital necessary for economic growth, promote innovation, improve access to health care and education, and expand outdoor recreational activities on public lands.

To enhance   efforts to address the needs of rural  , this order establishes a council to better coordinate Federal programs and maximize the impact of Federal investment to promote economic prosperity and quality of life in our rural communities.

 . 2.

Establishment.

There is established a  ).

 . 3.

Membership.

(a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall serve as  , which shall also include the heads of the following executive branch departments, agencies, and offices:

(1)  ;

(2)  ;

(3)  ;

(4)  ;

(5)  ;

(6)  ;

(7)  ;

(8)  ;

(9)  ;

(10)  ;

(11)  ;

(12)  ;

(13)  ;

(14)  ;

(15)  ;

(16)  ;

(17)  ;

(18)  ;

(19)  ;

(20)  ;

(21)  ;

(22)  ;

(23)  ;

(24)   and  ;

(25)  ; and such other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President or the Secretary of Agriculture may, from time to time, designate.

(b) A member of the   may designate, to perform the   functions of the member, a senior-level official who is part of the member's department, agency, or office, and who is a full-time officer or employee of  .

(c)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(d) The   shall coordinate its policy development through   and  .

 . 4.

Mission and Function of the  .

The   shall work across executive departments, agencies, and offices to coordinate development of policy recommendations to promote economic prosperity and quality of life in rural  , and shall coordinate my  's engagement with rural communities. The   shall:

(a) make recommendations to the President, through the Director of   and the Director of  , on streamlining and leveraging   investments in rural areas, where appropriate, to increase the impact of Federal dollars and create economic opportunities to improve the quality of life in rural  ;

(b) coordinate and increase the effectiveness of   engagement with rural stakeholders, including agricultural organizations, small businesses, education and training institutions, health-care providers, telecommunications services providers, research and land grant institutions, law enforcement,  , local, and tribal governments, and nongovernmental organizations regarding the needs of rural  ;

(c) coordinate Federal efforts directed toward the growth and development of geographic regions that encompass both urban and rural areas; and

(d) identify and facilitate rural economic opportunities associated with energy development, outdoor recreation, and other conservation related activities.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  . Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
