Section 1

.

Establishment

. There is established within  ).

 . 2

.

Membership

. (a) The   shall reflect a proper balance of perspectives from the scientific, medical, and claimant communities.

(b) The   shall consist of no more than 15 members to be appointed by the Secretary of   in consultation with organizations with expertise on worker health issues. Members shall serve without compensation as  , but shall be allowed travel and meal expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Secretary of   shall designate a Chair of the   from among its members.

 . 3

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall advise the Secretary of   with respect to:

(i) the site exposure matrices of  ;

(ii) medical guidance for claims examiners for claims under subtitle E of   of 2000 (EEOICPA) with respect to the weighing of the medical evidence of claimants;

(iii) evidentiary requirements for claims under EEOICPA subtitle B related to lung disease; and

(iv) the work of industrial hygienists, staff physicians, and consulting physicians of   and reports of such hygienists and physicians to ensure quality, objectivity, and consistency.

(b) To the extent necessary,   also shall coordinate exchanges of data and findings with  , which was authorized by EEOICPA and established by Executive Order  .

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a) The Secretary of   shall provide   with funding and administrative support, including the appointment of staff and, as the Secretary determines appropriate, authorization for the detail of Federal employees from within   and employment of outside contractors and specialists, to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. The Secretary also shall perform the administrative functions of the President under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 2), with respect to  . (b) The Secretary of   shall designate a senior officer of   to serve as the Director of the staff of  .

 . 5

.

Termination

. The   shall terminate on the date that is   after the enactment of   for  .

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
