 . 2. Strict Compliance with Prohibitions on Abortion Funding in Health Insurance Exchanges.

The Act specifically prohibits the use of tax credits and cost-sharing reduction payments to pay for abortion services (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered) in the health insurance exchanges that will be operational in  . The Act also imposes strict payment and accounting requirements to ensure that Federal funds are not used for abortion services in exchange plans (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered) and requires   health insurance commissioners to ensure that exchange plan funds are segregated by insurance companies in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, OMB funds management circulars, and accounting guidance provided by  .

I hereby direct the Director of the   and the Secretary of   to develop, within   of the date of this order, a model set of segregation guidelines for   health insurance commissioners to use when determining whether exchange plans are complying with the  's segregation requirements, established in   of the Act, for enrollees receiving Federal financial assistance. The guidelines shall also offer technical information that   should follow to conduct independent regular audits of insurance companies that participate in the health insurance exchanges. In developing these model guidelines, the Director of the   and the Secretary of   shall consult with executive agencies and offices that have relevant expertise in accounting principles, including, but not limited to,  , and with  . Upon completion of those model guidelines, the Secretary of   should promptly initiate a rulemaking to issue regulations, which will have the force of law, to interpret the Act's segregation requirements, and shall provide guidance to   health insurance commissioners on how to comply with the model guidelines.

 . 3.  .

The Act establishes a new   ( ) Fund within  , which provides additional Federal funds for the community health center program. Existing law prohibits these centers from using   funds to provide abortion services (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered), as a result of both the Hyde Amendment and longstanding regulations containing the Hyde language. Under the Act, the Hyde language shall apply to the authorization and appropriations of funds for   under section 10503 and all other relevant provisions. I hereby direct the Secretary of   to ensure that program administrators and recipients of Federal funds are aware of and comply with the limitations on abortion services imposed on CHCs by existing law. Such actions should include, but are not limited to, updating   that accompany   grants and issuing new interpretive rules.

 . 4.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) authority granted by law or Presidential directive to an agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) functions of the Director of the OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees or agents, or any other person.
