Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to partner, consult, and coordinate with   governments, bilateral and multilateral partners, the private sector, and civil society to expand access to electricity and increase electricity generation in Sub-Saharan Africa, in both urban and rural areas. Through   initiative ( ), we aim to double access to power in   by adding 30,000 megawatts ( ) of capacity and 60 million new household and business connections by  , and in so doing, leapfrog to cleaner forms of energy and foster inclusive economic growth and opportunity across  .

On  , my Administration launched  , a new initiative to double access to power in  , where more than two-thirds of the population is without electricity, and more than 85 percent of those living in rural areas lack access to electricity. In its initial phase,   aimed to add more than 10,000   of cleaner, more efficient electricity generation capacity and to increase electricity access by at least 20 million new households and commercial entities with on-grid, mini-grid, and off-grid solutions. Power Africa builds on Africa's enormous power potential, including extensive clean geothermal, hydro, wind and solar energy resources, as well as vast oil and gas reserves. Power Africa works with countries to develop resources responsibly, build out power generation, transmission, and distribution, and expand the reach of mini-grid and off-grid solutions. Power Africa brings to bear a wide range of tools from across   and more than 130 public and private sector partners to support investment in Africa's energy sector. Power Africa provides coordinated support to help   partners expand their power networks and access to electricity, including through policy and regulatory best practices, institutional capacity building, pre-feasibility support, grants, long-term financing, insurance, guarantees, credit enhancements, and technical assistance.

On  , during  , my Administration affirmed that   is intended to reach across  , and tripled   goals. Power Africa is now working toward adding 30,000   of new, cleaner electricity generation capacity and increasing electricity access by at least 60 million new connections. On  , my Administration, in coordination with   partners, launched  , which lays out a concrete plan for   to meet its ambitious goals by  .

  of  , enacted on   (Public Law 114-121) (the "Act"), calls for the development of a strategy to add at least 20,000   of electrical power and promote first-time access to power and power services for at least 50 million people in   by   in both urban and rural areas—an effort that directly supports and complements   goals. This order furthers the purposes of the Act and the work that   has been undertaking.

 . 2

.

Establishment of the Coordinator for Power Africa

.  ) shall serve as the lead agency to facilitate the implementation of   and associated activities across  . The Administrator of USAID shall establish the position of   within  .

 . 3

.

 

. (a) There is hereby established   ( ), co-chaired by   within   and a member of   ( ) staff to be designated by the Assistant to the President for  .   shall serve as the multi-agency coordinating and advisory body for   efforts to identify, evaluate, prioritize, and deliver assistance to energy projects across   in order to advance the energy access and electricity generation goals of   and promote policy cohesion across  . Through  , participating departments and agencies shall provide advice and promote coherence of   positions on and assistance for priority energy projects and policy reforms in support of  .

(b)   shall consist of representatives of the following executive branch departments and agencies (Participating Agencies):

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)    ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ; and

(xiii) such other agencies as   may designate or invite to participate, including   African Development Foundation.

(c)   may consult with   entities that participate in   as bilateral, multilateral, private sector partners and nongovernmental organizations to provide input and advice to  , as appropriate, regarding the implementation of  .

(d)   may establish sub-groups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate, such as one for each of the three pillars of  : (1) megawatts, (2) connections, and (3) unlocking energy sector potential. (e)   shall be supported by   within  .

 . 4

.

Mission and Functions of  

.  , as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out this order, shall:

(a) Ensure efficient and effective coordination of energy access activities in   among  .

(b) Identify, prioritize, and evaluate potential   projects, regulatory and policy reforms, and programmatic focus areas, including maximizing deployment of and access to renewable energy.

(c) Identify country and project specific obstacles to the development of the electricity sector, including financial and technical assistance needs and capacity building needs, and identify opportunities for Participating Agencies to deploy their respective tools and best practices to advance needed reforms and accelerate the completion of   projects.

(d) Enhance coordination among Participating Agencies to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of   development assistance and other development finance tools as related to   priorities.

(e) Facilitate information sharing and coordination of partnerships between Participating Agencies and   governments, the private sector, development partners, and bilateral and multilateral partners to help advance Power Africa's goals.

(f) Identify appropriate courses of action to liaise with host governments to advance regulatory and policy reforms, as well as energy transactions, related to  .

(g) Identify best practices for Participating Agencies to coordinate their engagement with development partners, including bilateral donors, development finance institutions, and multilateral development banks on energy access issues, to ensure that   tools are deployed in a way that is complementary to and leverages the impact of   resources.

(h) Meet with private sector partners, as appropriate, to review   projects and activities, and to solicit input regarding technical, policy, financial or political, obstacles that partners are encountering in the energy sector across  .

(i) Meet with bilateral and multilateral development partners, as appropriate, to coordinate country-specific and regional energy access policy agendas, coordinate deployment of financial resources and technical expertise to identify and accelerate   projects and activities, and review project pipelines.

(j) Monitor and periodically evaluate   projects and activities to measure the effectiveness of   assistance and other development finance tools in achieving   electricity generation and access goals, and to share lessons learned. These evaluations may recommend reforms to facilitate support for future projects and activities, and to increase   effectiveness.

 . 5

.

Partnering with  

. I hereby direct Participating Agencies to facilitate as appropriate, to the maximum extent possible under the law, the participation of local and regional companies in power, renewable energy, and climate change projects in low-income countries in Africa, including through the use of financing and risk insurance, where appropriate.

 . 6

.

Reporting

. The Administrator of USAID, in coordination with  , shall lead in the development of a report, to be transmitted to the   pursuant to section 7 of the Act and   of  , "Delegation of Authority Pursuant to Section 4 and Section 7 of the Electrify Africa Act of  ," on progress made toward achieving the comprehensive, integrated,   strategy that was transmitted to the   on  , pursuant to section 4 of the Act, to encourage the efforts of countries in   to implement national power strategies and develop an appropriate mix of power solutions to provide access to sufficient, reliable, affordable, and sustainable power in order to reduce poverty and drive economic growth and job creation.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
