Section 1

. Executive Order  , is amended as follows:

(a) The preamble is replaced with the following: "By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including 5 U.S.C. 3301 and 7103(b), and in order to strengthen and ensure a secure, efficient, timely, reciprocal, and aligned system for investigating and determining suitability or fitness for Government employment, contractor employee fitness, eligibility for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position, and authorization to be issued a Federal credential, while taking appropriate account of title III of Public Law 108-458, it is hereby ordered as follows:"

(b) Section 1.1 is amended to read as follows:

"Section 1.1

.

Policy

: Executive branch policies and procedures relating to suitability, contractor or   employee fitness, eligibility to hold a sensitive position, authorization to be issued a Federal credential for access to federally controlled facilities and information systems, and eligibility for access to classified information shall be aligned using consistent standards to the extent possible, shall provide for reciprocal recognition, and shall ensure cost-effective, timely, and efficient protection of the national interest, while providing fair treatment to those upon whom   relies to conduct the  's business and protect national security. Further, the  's systems and processes for conducting these background investigations and managing sensitive investigative information must keep pace with technological advancements, regularly integrating current best practices, to better anticipate, detect, and counter malicious activities and threats posed by external or internal actors who may seek to do harm to the  's personnel, property, or information. To help fulfill these responsibilities, there shall be a primary executive branch investigative service provider whose mission is to provide effective, efficient, and secure background investigations for  ."

(c) Sections 1.3(k) and (l) are redesignated as sections 1.3(l) and (m).

(d) A new section 1.3(k) is added to read as follows: "(k) " " ( ) means  , established within   with responsibility for conducting effective, efficient, and secure personnel background investigations pursuant to law, rule, regulation, or Executive Order."

(e) Section 2.2(b) is amended to read as follows:

"(b) The Deputy Director for  , shall serve as   and shall have authority, direction, and control over the  's functions. Membership on the   shall include the   Agent, the   Agent, and the Under Secretary of  . These four officials collectively shall constitute "the Suitability and Security Clearance Performance Accountability Council Principals." The Director of   shall also serve as a member of the  . The   shall select a Vice Chair to act in the  's absence. The   shall have authority to designate officials from additional agencies who shall serve as members of   Council membership shall be limited to   employees in leadership positions."

(f) Section 2.4 is redesignated as section 2.5, and a new section 2.4 is added to read as follows:

" . 2.4

.

Roles and Responsibilities of   and  .

(a)   shall:

"(1) serve as the primary executive branch service provider for background investigations for eligibility for access to classified information; eligibility to hold a sensitive position; suitability or, for employees in positions not subject to suitability, fitness for Government employment; fitness to perform work for or on behalf of the   as a contractor employee; and authorization to be issued a Federal credential for logical and physical access to federally controlled facilities and information systems;

"(2) provide effective, efficient, and secure personnel background investigations for  ;

"(3) provide the   information, to the extent permitted by law, on matters of performance, timeliness, capacity, information technology modernization, continuous performance improvement, and other relevant aspects of   operations;

"(4) be headquartered in or near  ,  ;

"(5) have dedicated resources, including but not limited to a senior privacy official;

"(6) institutionalize interagency collaboration and take advantage of expertise across the executive branch;

"(7) continuously improve investigative operations, emphasizing information accuracy and protection, and regularly integrate best practices, including those identified by subject matter experts from industry, academia, or other relevant sources;

"(8) conduct personnel background investigations in accordance with uniform and consistent policies, procedures, standards, and requirements established by the   Agent and the   Agent; and

"(9) conduct other personnel background investigations as authorized by law, rule, regulation, or Executive Order.

"(b) The Secretary of   shall design, develop, deploy, operate, secure, defend, and continuously update and modernize, as necessary, background investigation information technology systems that support all   background investigation processes conducted by  . Design and operation of the information technology systems for   shall comply with applicable information technology standards and, to the extent practicable, ensure security and interoperability with other   background investigation information technology systems. The Secretary of   shall operate the database in the information technology systems containing appropriate data relevant to the granting, denial, or revocation of a security clearance or access pertaining to military, civilian, or Government contractor personnel, see 50 U.S.C. 3341(e), consistent with and following an explicit delegation from the Director of   pursuant to 5 U.S.C.  .

"(c) Delegations and designations of investigative authority in place on the date of establishment of   shall remain in effect until amended or revoked.  , through the Director of  , shall be subject to the oversight of the   Agent in the conduct of investigations for eligibility for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive national security position; and to the oversight of the   Agent in the conduct of investigations of suitability or fitness for Government employment and logical and physical access, as provided in section 2.3 of this order. The   shall hold   accountable for the fulfillment of the responsibilities set forth in section 2.4(a) of this order."

Sec. 2

.

 ,  , and Responsibilities

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, and building on the strength of the current   and Executive Agent governance structure, the   shall review and update executive-level authorities across the vetting enterprise to clarify and de-conflict existing authorities, to assign new responsibilities where gaps may exist, and to address necessary governance changes.

(b) Specifically, the   shall submit to the President a recommendation to:

(i) update, clarify, or replace Executive Orders (such as Executive Order  , as amended, or Executive Order   of  , as amended) as necessary to accommodate adding new entities into the current governance structure, and to reflect changes to policies, governance, or operational structure; and

(ii) consolidate multiple authorities (such as Executive Order  , as amended, or Executive Order  ) and reaffirm or clarify existing roles and responsibilities in new or existing  .

(c) The  's submission shall include, but will not be limited to, the appropriate means to:

(i) create a   Agent with responsibility for policy and oversight of credentialing matters that parallels the respective authorities and responsibilities of the   and  , which will clarify, align, and consolidate credentialing authority under a single Executive Agent;

(ii) make explicit the   Agent's oversight role;

(iii) de-conflict Security Executive Agent and   Agent authorities;

(iv) establish a definition of "vetting" as the overarching construct for investigations and the decisions based on them, inclusive of security, suitability or fitness, and credentialing; and

(v) establish clear lanes of responsibility for new overarching enterprise-wide needs for example, acquisition, funding models, data security requirements, and contracting, and the respective roles of the Security, Suitability, and  ; and  .

 . 3

.

Amendment to Executive Order  

. Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by striking " " in section 1-216 and inserting in lieu thereof:

"Agencies or subdivisions of  (a)  .

(b)  .

(c) Units with a primary Suitability Executive Agent mission, including adjudicating suitability investigations and conducting related policy, advisory services, operations support, and agency oversight.

(d) Units with a primary mission of engineering, information technology, and cybersecurity support for personnel background investigations and adjudications."

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) If any provision of this order or the application of such provision is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order shall not be affected.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
