Executive Order  —Interagency Task Force on  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 102 of title I of the Military Reservist and   and Opportunity Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-186) (the "Act"), and in order to establish an interagency task force to coordinate the efforts of Federal agencies to improve capital, business development opportunities, and pre-established Federal contracting goals for small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans and service-disabled veterans, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment

. The Administrator of  ) shall establish within   on   (Task Force).

 . 2.

Membership

. The Administrator shall serve as   and shall direct its work. Other members shall consist of:

(a) a senior level representative, designated by the head of the respective department or agency, from each of the following:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)   (in addition to the Administrator); and

(vii)  ; and

(b) four representatives from a veterans' service or military organization or association, who shall be appointed by the Administrator.

 . 3.

Functions

. Consistent with the Act and other applicable law, the Task Force shall:

(a) consult regularly with veterans service and military organizations in performing the duties of  ;

(b) coordinate administrative and regulatory activities and develop proposals relating to:

(i) improving capital access and capacity of small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans and service-disabled veterans through loans, surety bonding, and franchising;

(ii) ensuring achievement of the pre-established Federal contracting goals for small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans and service-disabled veterans through expanded mentor-protégé assistance and matching such small business concerns with contracting opportunities;

(iii) increasing the integrity of certifications of status as a small business concern owned and controlled by a veteran or service-disabled veteran;

(iv) reducing paperwork and administrative burdens on veterans in accessing business development and entrepreneurship opportunities;

(v) increasing and improving training and counseling services provided to small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans; and

(vi) making other improvements relating to the support for veterans business development by  ; and

(c) not   after its first meeting and   thereafter, forward to the President a report on the performance of its functions, including any proposals developed pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.

 . 4.

General Provisions

. (a)   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise effect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; and

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (FACA), may apply to  , any functions of the President under the  , except for those in section 6 of the  , shall be performed by the Administrator in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

(d) This order is not intended to and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
