Executive Order  —  and   Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps with respect to   continuing escalation of violence against the people of   and with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 of  , as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order   of  , Executive Order   of  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order   of  , hereby order:

Section 1.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of   are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(i) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(ii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.

 . 2.

The following are prohibited:

(a) new investment in   by a   person, wherever located;

(b) the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from  , or by a   person, wherever located, of any services to  ;

(c) the importation into   of petroleum or petroleum products of   origin;

(d) any transaction or dealing by a   person, wherever located, including purchasing, selling, transporting, swapping, brokering, approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing, in or related to petroleum or petroleum products of   origin; and

(e) any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a   person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this section if performed by a   person or within  .

 . 3.

I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 and expanded in scope in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 4.

The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 5.

The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 6.

(a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 7.

Nothing in sections 1 or 2 of this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

 . 8.

For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of Syria" means  , its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.

 . 9.

For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 and expanded in scope in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 10.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 11.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 12.

This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in  on  .
