Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is in the national interest for   to attract the brightest minds skilled in technology or innovative practices to serve in   to work on some of the  's biggest and most pressing challenges. This order establishes a program to encourage successful entrepreneurs, executives, and innovators to join   and work in close cooperation with   leaders, to create meaningful solutions that can help save lives and taxpayer money, fuel job creation, and significantly improve how   serves the   people.

 . 2

.

Establishment and Administration

. (a)  ) shall establish  ) to enable exceptional individuals with proven track records to serve time-limited appointments in executive branch departments and agencies (agencies) to address some of the  's most significant challenges and improve existing Government efforts that would particularly benefit from expertise using innovative techniques and technology. Individuals selected for the   shall be known as Presidential Innovation Fellows (Fellows).

(b) The Program shall be administered by a Director, appointed by the Administrator under authorities of   ( ). GSA shall provide necessary staff, resources and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(c) GSA shall appoint the   and, in cooperation with agencies, shall facilitate placement of the   to participate in projects that have the potential for significant positive effects and are consistent with the President's goals.

 . 3

.

 

. (a) The Administrator shall establish an   to advise the Director by recommending such priorities and standards as may be beneficial to fulfill the mission of the   and assist in identifying potential projects and placements for  .   will not participate in the  ' selection process.

(b) The Administrator will designate a representative to serve as the Chair of the Advisory Board. In addition to the  , the membership of the   shall include the Deputy Director for  , the Director of  ,  , and the Assistant to the President and Chief Technology Officer, or their designees and such other persons as may be designated by the Administrator. Consistent with law,   may consult with industry, academia, or non-profits to ensure the   is continually identifying opportunities to apply advanced skillsets and innovative practices in effective ways to address the  's most significant challenges.

 . 4

.

Application Process

. (a) The Director, in accordance with applicable law, shall prescribe the process for applications and nominations of individuals to the  . (b) Following publication of these processes, the Director may accept for consideration applications from individuals. The Director shall establish, administer, review, and revise, if appropriate, a Government-wide cap on the number of  .

The Director shall establish and publish salary ranges, benefits, and standards for the  .

 . 5

.

Selection, Appointment, and Assignment of Fellows

. (a) The Director, in accordance with applicable law, shall prescribe appropriate procedures for the selection, appointment, and assignment of  .

(b) Prior to the selection of  , the Director will consult with agencies and executive branch departments, regarding potential projects and how best to meet those needs. Following such consultation, the Director shall select and appoint individuals to serve as  .

(c) The   shall serve under short-term, time-limited appointments. As a general matter, they shall be appointed for   and no longer than   in the  . The Director shall facilitate the process of placing   at requesting agencies and executive branch departments.

 . 6

.

Responsibilities of Agencies

. Each executive branch department or agency, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, is encouraged to work with the Director and   to attempt to maximize the  's benefits to the department or agency and  , including by identifying initiatives that will have a meaningful effect on the people served and that will benefit from involvement by one or more  . Departments and agencies also are encouraged to ensure that each   will work closely with responsible senior officials for the duration of the assignment.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
