Executive Order  —  for  , Local, Tribal, and Private Sector Entities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , in order to ensure the proper safeguarding of information shared with  , local, tribal, and private sector entities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment and Policy.

 . 1.1.

There is established  ) designed to safeguard and govern access to classified national security information shared by  , local, tribal, and private sector (SLTPS) entities.

 . 1.2.

The purpose of this order is to ensure that security standards governing access to and safeguarding of classified material are applied in accordance with Executive Order   (" "), Executive Order   of  , as amended ("Access to Classified Information"), Executive Order   ("Reforming Processes Related to  , Fitness for Contractor Employees, and  "), and Executive Order  , as amended ("National Industrial Security Program"). Procedures for uniform implementation of these standards by SLTPS entities shall be set forth in an implementing directive to be issued by the Secretary of   within   of the date of this order, in consultation with affected executive departments and agencies (agencies), and with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Director of  , and the Director of  .

 . 1.3.

Additional policy provisions for access to and safeguarding of classified information shared with   personnel include the following:

(a) Eligibility for access to classified information by   personnel shall be determined by a sponsoring agency. The level of access granted shall not exceed the Secret level, unless the sponsoring agency determines on a case-by-case basis that the applicant has a demonstrated and foreseeable need for access to  , Special Access Program, or  .

(b) Upon the execution of a non-disclosure agreement prescribed by   or the Director of  , and absent disqualifying conduct as determined by the clearance granting official, a duly elected or appointed Governor of a   or territory, or an official who has succeeded to that office under applicable law, may be granted access to classified information without a background investigation in accordance with the implementing directive for this order. This authorization of access may not be further delegated by the Governor to any other person.

(c) All clearances granted to SLTPS personnel, as well as accreditations granted to SLTPS facilities without a waiver, shall be accepted reciprocally by all agencies and SLTPS entities.

(d) Physical custody of classified information by  , local, and tribal ( ) entities shall be limited to Secret information unless the location housing the information is under the full-time management, control, and operation of   or another agency. A standard security agreement, established by   in consultation with  , shall be executed between the head of the   entity and   for those locations where the   entity will maintain physical custody of classified information.

(e) State, local, and tribal facilities where classified information is or will be used or stored shall be inspected, accredited, and monitored for compliance with established standards, in accordance with Executive Order   and the implementing directive for this order, by   or another agency that has entered into an agreement with   to perform such inspection, accreditation, and monitoring.

(f) Private sector facilities where classified information is or will be used or stored shall be inspected, accredited, and monitored for compliance with standards established pursuant to Executive Order  , as amended, by   or the cognizant security agency under Executive Order  , as amended.

(g) Access to information systems that store, process, or transmit classified information shall be enforced by the rules established by the agency that controls the system and consistent with approved dissemination and handling markings applied by originators, separate from and in addition to criteria for determining eligibility for access to classified information. Access to information within restricted portals shall be based on criteria applied by the agency that controls the portal and consistent with approved dissemination and handling markings applied by originators.

(h)   established in Executive Order  , as amended, shall govern the access to and safeguarding of classified information that is released to contractors, licensees, and grantees of   entities.

(i) All access eligibility determinations and facility security accreditations granted prior to the date of this order that do not meet the standards set forth in this order or its implementing directive shall be reconciled with those standards within a reasonable period.

(j) Pursuant to section 4.1(i)(3) of Executive Order  , documents created prior to the effective date of Executive Order   shall not be re-disseminated to other entities without the consent of the originating agency. An agency head or senior agency official may waive this requirement for specific information that originated within that agency.

 . 2.

Policy Direction.

With policy guidance from   and in consultation with the Director of  , the Director of  , and the heads of affected agencies, the Secretary of   shall serve as the Executive Agent for the  . This order does not displace any authorities provided by law or Executive Order and the Executive Agent shall, to the extent practicable, make use of existing structures and authorities to preclude duplication and to ensure efficiency.

 . 3.

SLTPS Policy Advisory Committee.

(a) There is established an SLTPS Policy Advisory Committee (Committee) to discuss Program-related policy issues in dispute in order to facilitate their resolution and to otherwise recommend changes to policies and procedures that are designed to remove undue impediments to the sharing of information under the  . The Director of   shall serve as  . An official designated by the Secretary of   and a representative of SLTPS entities shall serve as Vice Chairs of the  . Members of the   shall include designees of the heads of    , Justice,  , and  ,  ,  ,  , and  . Members shall also include employees of other agencies and representatives of SLTPS entities, as nominated by any   member and approved by the  .

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  , except that any representatives of SLTPS entities may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c)   shall provide staff support to the  .

(d) Insofar as  , as amended (5 App. U.S.C.)(the "Act") may apply to this order, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 4.

Operations and Oversight.

(a) The Executive Agent for the   shall perform the following responsibilities:

(1) overall program management and oversight;

(2) accreditation, periodic inspection, and monitoring of all facilities owned or operated by   entities that have access to classified information, except when another agency has entered into an agreement with   to perform some or all of these functions;

(3) processing of security clearance applications by SLTPS personnel, when requested by a sponsoring agency, on a reimbursable basis unless otherwise determined by   and the sponsoring agency;

(4) documenting and tracking the final status of security clearances for all SLTPS personnel in consultation with  ,  , and  ;

(5) developing and maintaining a security profile of   facilities that have access to classified information; and

(6) developing training, in consultation with the  , for all SLTPS personnel who have been determined eligible for access to classified information, which shall cover the proper safeguarding of classified information and sanctions for unauthorized disclosure of classified information.

(b) The Secretary of  , or the cognizant security agency under Executive Order  , as amended, shall provide program management, oversight, inspection, accreditation, and monitoring of all private sector facilities that have access to classified information.

(c) The Director of   may inspect and monitor SLTPS programs and facilities that involve access to information regarding intelligence sources, methods, and activities.

(d) Heads of agencies that sponsor   personnel and facilities for access to and storage of classified information under section 1.3(a) of this order shall:

(1) ensure on a periodic basis that there is a demonstrated, foreseeable need for such access; and

(2) provide the Secretary of   with information, as requested by the Secretary, about   personnel sponsored for security clearances and   facilities approved for use of classified information prior to and after the date of this order, except when the disclosure of the association of a specific individual with an intelligence or law enforcement agency must be protected in the interest of national security, as determined by the intelligence or law enforcement agency.

 . 5.

Definitions.

For purposes of this order:

(a) "Access" means the ability or opportunity to gain knowledge of classified information.

(b) "Agency" means any "Executive agency" as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; any military department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; and any other entity within the executive branch that comes into possession of classified information.

(c) " " or "classified information" means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order  , or any predecessor or successor order, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure, and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.

(d) "Information" means any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control of  .

(e) "Intelligence activities" means all activities that elements of   are authorized to conduct pursuant to law or Executive Order  , as amended, or a successor order.

(f) "Local" entities refers to "(A) a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (regardless of whether the council of governments is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under   law), regional or interstate government entity, or agency or instrumentality of a local government; and (B) a rural community, unincorporated town or village, or other public entity" as defined in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101(11)).

(g) "Private sector" means persons outside government who are critically involved in ensuring that public and private preparedness and response efforts are integrated as part of the Nation's Critical Infrastructure or   (CIKR), including:

(1) corporate owners and operators determined by the Secretary of   to be part of the CIKR;

(2) subject matter experts selected to assist the Federal or State CIKR;

(3) personnel serving in specific leadership positions of CIKR coordination, operations, and oversight;

(4) employees of corporate entities relating to the protection of  ; or

(5) other persons not otherwise eligible for the granting of a personnel security clearance pursuant to Executive Order  , as amended, who are determined by the Secretary of   to require a personnel security clearance.

(h) "Restricted portal" means a protected community of interest or similar area housed within an information system and to which access is controlled by a host agency different from the agency that controls the information system.

(i) "Sponsoring Agency" means an agency that recommends access to or possession of classified information by   personnel.

(j) "State" means any  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and any possession of  , as defined in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101(15)).

(k) "State, local, and tribal personnel" means any of the following persons:

(1) Governors, mayors, tribal leaders, and other elected or appointed officials of a  , local government, or tribe;

(2) State, local, and tribal law enforcement personnel and firefighters;

(3) public health, radiological health, and medical professionals of a  , local government, or tribe; and

(4) regional,  , local, and tribal emergency management agency personnel, including   and other appropriate public safety personnel and those personnel providing support to a Federal CIKR mission.

(l) "Tribe" means any   or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe as defined in   of   (25 U.S.C.  )).

(m) "United States" when used in a geographic sense, means any  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , any possession of   and any waters within the territorial jurisdiction of  .

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) This order does not change the requirements of      , or  , as amended, and their successor orders and directives.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to supersede or change the authorities of the Secretary of Energy or   under the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); the Secretary of   under Executive Order  , as amended; the Director of   under Executive Order   and Executive Order  , as amended; the Attorney General under title 18, United States Code, and   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); the Secretary of   under title  , United States Code, and the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of  ; or the Director of   under the National Security Act of  , as amended, Executive Order  , as amended, Executive Order  , as amended, Executive Order  , and Executive Order  .

(c) Nothing in this order shall limit the authority of an agency head, or the agency head's designee, to authorize in an emergency and when necessary to respond to an imminent threat to life or in defense of the homeland, in accordance with section 4.2(b) of Executive Order  , the disclosure of classified information to an individual or individuals who are otherwise not eligible for access in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order  .

(d) Consistent with section 892(a)(4) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 482(a)(4)), nothing in this order shall be interpreted as changing the requirements and authorities to protect sources and methods.

(e) Nothing in this order shall supersede measures established under the authority of law or Executive Order to protect the security and integrity of specific activities and associations that are in direct support of intelligence operations.

(f) Pursuant to section 892(e) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 482(e)), all information provided to an SLTPS entity from an agency shall remain under the control of  . Any State or local law authorizing or requiring disclosure shall not apply to such information.

(g) Nothing in this order limits the protection afforded any classified information by other provisions of law. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(h) Nothing in this order shall be construed to obligate action or otherwise affect functions by the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(i) This order shall be implemented subject to the availability of appropriations and consistent with procedures approved by the Attorney General pursuant to Executive Order  , as amended.

 . 7.

Effective Date.

This order is effective   from the date of this order with the exception of section 3, which is effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
