Executive Order  —Establishment of an Interagency Task Force on Commercial Advocacy
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to help level the playing field on behalf of   businesses and workers competing for international contracts against foreign firms and to facilitate the growth of sales of   goods and services around the world in support of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Executive Order   of  , created  ), which provides unprecedented Federal support for exports of goods and services by   businesses. Executive   also established   to develop and coordinate the implementation of the eight priorities of the  , which include, but are not limited to, improving advocacy and trade promotion efforts on behalf of   exporters, increasing access to export financing, and removing barriers to trade and enforcing   trade laws and agreements. As part of these responsibilities,  , in coordination with   at  , is focused on ensuring that   commercial advocacy effectively promotes exports by   businesses, particularly by those firms competing for international contracts against foreign firms that may benefit from strong home government support. The creation of a new whole-of-government commercial advocacy task force that will provide enhanced Federal support for   businesses competing for international contracts, coordinate the efforts of executive branch leadership in engaging their foreign counterparts on commercial advocacy issues, and increase the availability of information to the   business community about these kinds of export opportunities, will ensure that   exporters have more support for selling their goods and services in global markets.

 . 2

.

Establishment and Membership

. There is hereby established an   on Commercial Advocacy (Task Force).

(a) The Task Force shall be chaired by the Secretary of Commerce (Chair) and consist of senior-level officials from the following executive departments and agencies (agencies) designated by the heads of those agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii) Department of the  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)   for  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii) Overseas  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ; and

(xv) such other agencies as the President, or the  , may designate.

(b) The   shall designate a senior-level official of   as the Executive Director of  , who shall be responsible for regularly convening and presiding over the meetings of  , determining its agenda, and guiding its work in fulfilling its functions under this order in coordination with   at  .

 . 3

.

Functions

. The Task Force shall perform the following functions:

(a) review and prioritize commercial advocacy cases in which   at   has approved the provision of commercial advocacy services, and coordinate the activities of relevant agencies to enhance Federal support for such cases, in order to increase the success of   exporters competing for foreign procurements;

(b) coordinate the engagement of agency leadership with their foreign counterparts regarding commercial advocacy issues, particularly with respect to their foreign travel and other occasions for engagement with foreign officials, and evaluate reports on the outcomes of such engagement, in order to increase the number of senior-level agency officials regularly and effectively advocating on behalf of   exporters;

(c) develop strategies to raise the awareness of commercial advocacy assistance within the   business community in order to increase the number of   businesses utilizing commercial advocacy services;

(d) institute processes to obtain and distribute information about foreign procurement opportunities that may be of interest to   businesses in order to expand awareness of opportunities for   businesses to sell their goods and services to foreign governments;

(e) facilitate voluntary short-term personnel exchanges, not to exceed  , between   and other Task Force agencies, in order to cross-train   personnel to better serve   exporters; and

(f) submit a progress report to   every 180 days, which should include, but not be limited to, the number of commercial advocacy cases opened and successfully concluded, the number of commercial advocacy engagements by senior-level agency officials, and the number of   businesses utilizing commercial advocacy services.   at   will be responsible for managing and tracking all commercial advocacy reporting for  .

 . 4

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "commercial advocacy" shall mean Federal support for   firms competing for foreign project or procurement opportunities; and

(b) the term "foreign project or procurement opportunities" shall mean export opportunities, including defense export opportunities, for   businesses that involve foreign government decisionmakers, including foreign government-owned corporations.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) The   shall provide funding and administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law and consistent with existing appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise effect:

(i) the authority granted by law, regulation, Executive Order, or   to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; and

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
