Executive Order 13754— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as the President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , 43 U.S.C.  

et seq

., it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. As recognized in Executive Order   of  , (Enhancing Coordination of National Efforts in the Arctic), Arctic environmental stewardship is in the national interest. In furtherance of this principle, and as articulated in  , U.S.-Canada Joint Statement on Climate, Energy, and Arctic Leadership,   has resolved to confront the challenges of a changing Arctic by working to conserve Arctic biodiversity; support and engage   tribes; incorporate traditional knowledge into decisionmaking; and build a sustainable Arctic economy that relies on the highest safety and environmental standards, including adherence to national climate goals.   is committed to achieving these goals in partnership with indigenous communities and through science-based decisionmaking. This order carries forth that vision in the northern Bering Sea region.

The Bering Sea and Bering Strait are home to numerous subsistence communities, rich indigenous cultures, and unique marine ecosystems, each of which plays an important role in maintaining regional resilience. The changing climate and rising average temperatures are reducing the occurrence of sea ice; changing the conditions for fishing, hunting, and subsistence whaling; and opening new navigable routes to increased ship traffic. The preservation of a healthy and resilient Bering ecosystem, including its migratory pathways, habitat, and breeding grounds, is essential for the survival of marine mammals, fish, seabirds, other wildlife, and the subsistence communities that depend on them. These communities possess a unique understanding of the Arctic ecosystem, and their traditional knowledge should serve as an important resource to inform Federal decisionmaking.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of   to enhance the resilience of the northern Bering Sea region by conserving the region's ecosystem, including those natural resources that provide important cultural and subsistence value and services to the people of the region. For the purpose of carrying out the specific directives provided herein, this order delineates an area hereafter referred to as the "Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area," in which the exercise of relevant authorities shall be coordinated among all executive departments and agencies (agencies). All agencies charged with regulating, overseeing, or conducting activities in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area shall do so with attention to the rights, needs, and knowledge of   tribes; the delicate and unique ecosystem; the protection of marine mammals, fish, seabirds, and other wildlife; and with appropriate coordination with  .

The boundary of   includes waters within   bounded to the north by the seaward boundary of   established pursuant to  ; to the south by the southern boundaries of  ,  , and  ; and to the west by the maritime boundary delimited by the Agreement Between   and   on  , signed at  ,  .

 . 3

.

Withdrawal

. Under the authority granted to me in section 12(a) of  , 43 U.S.C. 1341(a), I hereby withdraw from disposition by leasing for a time period without specific expiration the following areas of the Outer Continental Shelf: (1) the area currently designated by   as  ; and (2) the Outer Continental Shelf lease blocks within   St. Matthew-Hall Planning Area lying within 25 nautical miles of St. Lawrence Island. The boundaries of the withdrawn areas are more specifically delineated in the attached map and, with respect to  , the accompanying table of withdrawn Outer Continental Shelf lease blocks. Both the map and table form a part of this order, with the table governing the withdrawal and withdrawal boundaries within the St. Matthew-Hall Planning Area. This withdrawal prevents consideration of these areas for future oil or gas leasing for purposes of exploration, development, or production. This withdrawal furthers the principles of responsible public stewardship entrusted to this office and takes due consideration of the importance of the withdrawn area to   tribes, wildlife, and wildlife habitat, and the need for regional resiliency in the face of climate change. Nothing in this withdrawal affects rights under existing leases in the withdrawn areas.

 . 4

.

Task Force on the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area

. (a) There is established   on the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area (Bering Task Force), under   (AESC) established in Executive Order  , to be co-chaired by an office of  ,  , and  .

(b) The membership of   (member agencies) shall include, in addition to  , designated senior-level representatives from:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ; and

(viii) such agencies and offices as   may designate.

(c) Consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of its member agencies,  , with the purpose of advancing   policy in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area as set forth in section 2 of this order, shall:

(i) Establish and provide regular opportunities to consult with   as described in section 5 of this order;

(ii) Coordinate activities of member agencies, including regulatory, policy, and research activities, affecting   and its value for subsistence and cultural purposes; (iii) Consider the need for additional actions or strategies to advance the policies established in section 2 of this order and provide recommendations as appropriate to the President through the AESC;

(iv) Consider and make recommendations with respect to the impacts of shipping on   including those described in sections 7 and 8 of this order; and

(v) In developing and implementing recommendations, coordinate or consult as appropriate with existing AESC working groups,  , regional and local governments,   tribal governments,   corporations and organizations, the private sector, other relevant organizations, and academia.

 . 5

.

The Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council

. (a) The Bering Task Force, within   of this order, and after considering recommendations from   tribal governments, shall, in accordance with existing law, establish a Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council, for the purpose of providing input to   and facilitating effective consultation with   tribal governments.

(b) The Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council shall be charged with providing input and recommendations on activities, regulations, guidance, or policy that may affect actions or conditions in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area, with attention given to climate resilience; the rights, needs, and knowledge of   tribes; the delicate and unique ecosystem; and the protection of marine mammals and other wildlife.

(c) The Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council should include between 9 and 11 elected officials or their designees representing   tribal governments with a breadth of interests in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area, and may include such additional   officials and   and local government elected officials as   deems appropriate. The Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council will adopt such procedures as it deems necessary to govern its activities.

 . 6

.

Traditional Knowledge in Decisionmaking

. It shall be the policy of   to recognize and value the participation of   tribal governments in decisions affecting   and for all agencies to consider traditional knowledge in decisions affecting  . Specifically, all agencies shall consider applicable information from   in the exercise of existing agency authorities. Such input may be received through existing agency procedures and consultation processes.

 . 7

.

Pollution from  

.  , within   of this order and after coordination as needed with existing working groups within the AESC, shall provide the AESC with recommendations on:

(a) Actions to ensure or support implementation of the International Code for Ships Operating in  , as adopted by  , especially with respect to limitations on discharges from vessels in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area; and

(b) Any additional measures necessary to achieve the policies established in section 2 of this order, such as the potential identification of zero-discharge zones, assessments of the pollution risks posed by increased vessel traffic, or noise reduction measures associated with sensitive ecological and cultural areas within the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area.

 . 8

.

Shipping Routing Measures

. (a) In recognition of   commitment to reduce the impact of shipping within the Bering Sea and the Bering Strait and the many environmental factors in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area that inform the best routes for navigation, safety, and the marine environment,   should conclude its ongoing port access route study for the Chukchi Sea, Bering Strait, and Bering Sea (Bering Sea PARS) pursuant to the   and Waterways Safety Act, 33 U.S.C.  

et seq

.

(b) In designation of routes and any areas to be avoided, and consistent with existing authorities, consideration should be given to  , including the effects of shipping and vessel pollution on the marine environment, fishery resources, the seabed and subsoil of the Outer Continental Shelf, marine mammal migratory pathways and other biologically important areas, and subsistence whaling, hunting, and fishing.

(c) In recognition of the value of participation of   tribal governments in decisions affecting  ,   should consider traditional knowledge, including with respect to marine mammal, waterfowl, and seabird migratory pathways and feeding and breeding grounds, in the development of the Bering Sea PARS, establishment of routing measures and any areas to be avoided, and subsequent rulemaking and management decisions.

(d) No later than December 30, 2016,   shall publish preliminary findings for the Bering Sea PARS in  , including information related to its status, potential routing measures, and its projected schedule.   should also consider using this opportunity to provide notice of any new information or proposed measures resulting from its ongoing consultation process.

(e) Upon completion of the Bering Sea PARS,   shall promptly issue a notice of proposed rulemaking for any designation contemplated on the basis of the study.   shall coordinate as appropriate with   and other coastal nations and submit any proposed routing measures to   by   for the purpose of their adoption and implementation.

 . 9

.

Oil Spill Preparedness

.  , in coordination with all relevant agencies and  , shall update the Area Contingency plans,  , and   relevant to  . These plans and strategies shall be consistent with  , and shall include appropriate measures to improve local response capacity and preparedness such as spill response training opportunities for local communities, including   and Emergency Response training for   and other first responders.

 . 10

.

 

. The area included in the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area is currently closed to commercial non-pelagic trawl gear under rules implementing   Plans of the Bering Sea and   and  . Consistent with existing law,  , in coordination with  , shall take such actions as are necessary to support the policy set forth in section 2 of this order, including actions to maintain the existing prohibitions on the use of commercial non-pelagic trawl gear.

 . 11

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (1) the authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistently with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The policies set forth in this order are consistent with existing   obligations under international law and nothing in this order shall be construed to derogate from obligations under applicable international law.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in  on  .
