Executive Order 13755—Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1

.

Order of Succession

. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of   (Secretary) during any period in which both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of   have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary:

(a) Solicitor of Labor;

(b) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(c) Assistant Secretary for Policy;

(d) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(e) Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training;

(f) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(g) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(h) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(i) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(j) Chief Financial Officer;

(k) Administrator, Wage and Hour Division;

(l) Assistant Secretary for   and Training;

(m) Assistant Secretary for  ;

(n) First assistants, pursuant to the Act, to the officials in the order listed in (a) and (c)-(h);

(o) Regional Solicitor— ; and

(p) Regional Administrator for   Secretary for   .

 . 2

.

Exceptions

. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)-(p) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual listed in section 1(a)-(p) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act. (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 . 3

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   of   (Providing An Order of Succession Within  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 4

.

 

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
