Executive Order 13761—  by  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   of 2000 (22 U.S.C.  ) (TSRA), the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of  , as amended (Public Law 108-497) (CPSA), the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-344) (DPAA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the actions taken in Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order   of  , related to the policies and actions of   has been altered by  's positive actions over  . These actions include a marked reduction in offensive military activity, culminating in a pledge to maintain a cessation of hostilities in conflict areas in  , and steps toward the improvement of humanitarian access throughout  , as well as cooperation with   on addressing regional conflicts and the threat of terrorism. Given these developments, and in order to see these efforts sustained and enhanced by  , I hereby order:

Section 1

. Effective   and provided the criteria in section 12(b) of this order are met, sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   of  , are revoked, and Executive Order   of  , is revoked in its entirety. The revocation of those provisions of   and of Executive Order   shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action under those orders during the period that those provisions were in effect.

 . 2

. Pursuant to section 908(a)(3) of TSRA, I hereby determine that it is in the national security interest of   to waive, and hereby waive, the application of section 908(a)(1) of TSRA with respect to  .

 . 3

. Pursuant to section 6(d) of CPSA, I hereby determine and certify that it is in the national interest of   to waive, and hereby waive, the application of sections 6(a) and (b) of  .

 . 4

. The function of the President under section 6(c)(1) of CPSA is assigned to the Secretary of the  .

 . 5

. The functions of the President under section 6(c)(2) and the last sentence of section 6(d) of CPSA are assigned to the Secretary of  , except that the function of denial of entry is assigned to the Secretary of  .

 . 6

. The function of the President under section 8 of DPAA is assigned to the Secretary of  .

 . 7

. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Commerce are authorized to issue regulations, licenses, and orders, and conduct such investigations as may be necessary, to implement the provisions of section 906 of TSRA.

 . 8

. This order is not intended to, and does not, otherwise affect the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of  , as expanded in scope by Executive Order 13400 of  , which shall remain in place.

 . 9

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 10

. On or before  , the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Administrator of    , and based on a consideration of relevant and credible information from available sources, including nongovernmental organizations, shall provide to the President a report on whether   has sustained the positive actions that gave rise to this order, including carrying out its pledge to maintain a cessation of hostilities in conflict areas in  ; continued improvement of humanitarian access throughout  ; and maintaining its cooperation with   on addressing regional conflicts and the threat of terrorism. As much of the report as possible, consistent with sources and methods, shall be unclassified and made public.

 . 11

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Administrator of    , and based on a consideration of relevant and credible information from available sources, including nongovernmental organizations, shall provide to the President an updated version of the report required in section 10 of this order   thereafter. As much of the report as possible, consistent with sources and methods, shall be unclassified and made public. To the extent a report concludes that   has or has not sustained the positive actions that gave rise to this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Administrator of    , shall provide to the President recommendations on appropriate   responses.

(b) Concurrent with the provision of the reports required in section 11(a) of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Administrator of    , shall publish a notice in  

stating whether   has sustained the positive actions that gave rise to this order.

 . 12

. (a) This order is effective on  , except for sections 1,  ,  ,  , and 7 of this order;

(b) Sections 1,  ,  ,  , and 7 of this order are effective on  , provided that the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Director of  , and the Administrator of    , has published a notice in  on or before that date, stating that   has sustained the positive actions that gave rise to this order and that the Secretary of   has provided to the President the report described in section 10 of this order.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
