Executive  —  at the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base and Closure of Detention Facilities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , in order to effect the appropriate disposition of individuals currently detained by   at the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base (Guantánamo) and promptly to close detention facilities at  , consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of   and the interests of justice, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.

Definitions.

As used in this order:

(a) "Common Article 3" means Article 3 of each of the Geneva Conventions.

(b) "Geneva Conventions" means:

(i) the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armed Forces in the  ,   (6 UST 3114);

(ii) the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of Wounded, Sick and Shipwrecked Members of  ,   (6 UST  );

(iii) the Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War,   (6 UST 3316); and

(iv) the Convention Relative to   in Time of War,   (6 UST 3516).

(c) "Individuals currently detained at  " and "individuals covered by this order" mean individuals currently detained by   in facilities at the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base whom   has ever determined to be, or treated as, enemy combatants.

 . 2.

Findings.

(a) Over  , approximately 800 individuals whom   has ever determined to be, or treated as, enemy combatants have been detained at Guantánamo.   has moved more than 500 such detainees from Guantánamo, either by returning them to their home country or by releasing or transferring them to a third country.   has determined that a number of the individuals currently detained at Guantánamo are eligible for such transfer or release.

(b) Some individuals currently detained at Guantánamo have been there for  , and most have been detained for  . In view of the significant concerns raised by these detentions, both within   and internationally, prompt and appropriate disposition of the individuals currently detained at Guantánamo and closure of the facilities in which they are detained would further the national security and foreign policy interests of   and the interests of justice. Merely closing the facilities without promptly determining the appropriate disposition of the individuals detained would not adequately serve those interests. To the extent practicable, the prompt and appropriate disposition of the individuals detained at   should precede the closure of the detention facilities at Guantánamo.

(c) The individuals currently detained at Guantánamo have the constitutional privilege of the writ of habeas corpus. Most of those individuals have filed petitions for a writ of habeas corpus in   court challenging the lawfulness of their detention.

(d) It is in the interests of   that the executive branch undertake a prompt and thorough review of the factual and legal bases for the continued detention of all individuals currently held at Guantánamo, and of whether their continued detention is in the national security and foreign policy interests of   and in the interests of justice. The unusual circumstances associated with detentions at   require a comprehensive interagency review.

(e) New diplomatic efforts may result in an appropriate disposition of a substantial number of individuals currently detained at Guantánamo.

(f) Some individuals currently detained at Guantánamo may have committed offenses for which they should be prosecuted. It is in the interests of   to review whether and how any such individuals can and should be prosecuted.

(g) It is in the interests of   that the executive branch conduct a prompt and thorough review of the circumstances of the individuals currently detained at Guantánamo who have been charged with offenses before military commissions pursuant to the Military Commissions Act of  , Public Law 109–366, as well as of the military commission process more generally.

 . 3.

Closure of Detention Facilities at Guantánamo.

The detention facilities at Guantánamo for individuals covered by this order shall be closed as soon as practicable, and   from the date of this order. If any individuals covered by this order remain in detention at Guantánamo at the time of closure of those detention facilities, they shall be returned to their home country, released, transferred to a third country, or transferred to another   detention facility in a manner consistent with law and the national security and foreign policy interests of  .

 . 4.

 .

(a)

Scope and Timing of Review.

A review of the status of each individual currently detained at  ) shall commence immediately.

(b)

Review Participants.

The Review shall be conducted with the full cooperation and participation of the following officials:

(1) the Attorney General, who shall coordinate the  ;

(2) the Secretary of  ;

(3) the Secretary of  ;

(4) the Secretary of  ;

(5) the Director of  ;

(6) the Chairman of  ; and

(7) other officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  , including employees with intelligence, counterterrorism, military, and legal expertise, as determined by the Attorney General, with the concurrence of the head of the department or agency concerned.

(c)

Operation of Review.

The duties of the   participants shall include the following:

(1)

Consolidation of Detainee Information.

The Attorney General shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, and in coordination with the other Review participants, assemble all information in the possession of   that pertains to any individual currently detained at Guantánamo and that is relevant to determining the proper disposition of any such individual. All executive branch departments and agencies shall promptly comply with any request of the Attorney General to provide information in their possession or control pertaining to any such individual. The Attorney General may seek further information relevant to the   from any source.

(2)

 .

The Review shall determine, on a rolling basis and as promptly as possible with respect to the individuals currently detained at Guantánamo, whether it is possible to transfer or release the individuals consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of   and, if so, whether and how the Secretary of   may effect their transfer or release. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and, as appropriate, other Review participants shall work to effect promptly the release or transfer of all individuals for whom release or transfer is possible.

(3)

 .

In accordance with   law, the cases of individuals detained at Guantánamo not approved for release or transfer shall be evaluated to determine whether   should seek to prosecute the detained individuals for any offenses they may have committed, including whether it is feasible to prosecute such individuals before a court established pursuant to Article III of  , and the   participants shall in turn take the necessary and appropriate steps based on such determinations.

(4)

Determination of Other Disposition.

With respect to any individuals currently detained at Guantánamo whose disposition is not achieved under paragraphs (2) or (3) of this subsection, the   shall select lawful means, consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of   and the interests of justice, for the disposition of such individuals. The appropriate authorities shall promptly implement such dispositions.

(5)

Consideration of Issues Relating to Transfer to  .

The Review shall identify and consider legal, logistical, and security issues relating to the potential transfer of individuals currently detained at   to facilities within  , and the   participants shall work with the   on any legislation that may be appropriate.

 . 5.

 .

The Secretary of   shall expeditiously pursue and direct such negotiations and diplomatic efforts with foreign governments as are necessary and appropriate to implement this order.

 . 6.

Humane Standards of Confinement.

No individual currently detained at Guantánamo shall be held in the custody or under the effective control of any officer, employee, or other agent of  , or at a facility owned, operated, or controlled by a department or agency of  , except in conformity with all applicable laws governing the conditions of such confinement, including Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The Secretary of   shall immediately undertake a review of the conditions of detention at Guantánamo to ensure full compliance with this directive. Such review shall be completed within   and any necessary corrections shall be implemented immediately thereafter.

 . 7.

Military Commissions.

The Secretary of   shall immediately take steps sufficient to ensure that during the pendency of the   described in section 4 of this order, no charges are sworn, or referred to a military commission under the Military Commissions Act of   and  , and that all proceedings of such military commissions to which charges have been referred but in which no judgment has been rendered, and all proceedings pending in  , are halted.

 . 8.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall prejudice the authority of the Secretary of   to determine the disposition of any detainees not covered by this order.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
