Executive Order  —Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and Considering  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to improve the  's resilience to current and future flood risk, I hereby direct the following:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to improve the resilience of communities and Federal assets against the impacts of flooding. These impacts are anticipated to increase over time due to the effects of climate change and other threats. Losses caused by flooding affect the environment, our economic prosperity, and public health and safety, each of which affects our national security.

  must take action, informed by the best-available and actionable science, to improve the  's preparedness and resilience against flooding. Executive Order   of   ( ), requires executive departments and agencies (agencies) to avoid, to the extent possible, the long- and short-term adverse impacts associated with the occupancy and modification of floodplains and to avoid direct or indirect support of floodplain development wherever there is a practicable alternative.   has developed processes for evaluating the impacts of Federal actions in or affecting floodplains to implement Executive Order  .

As part of a national policy on resilience and risk reduction consistent with my

Climate Action Plan

,   staff coordinated an interagency effort to create a new flood risk reduction standard for federally funded projects. The views of Governors, mayors, and other stakeholders were solicited and considered as efforts were made to establish a new flood risk reduction standard for federally funded projects. The result of these efforts is   (Standard), a flexible framework to increase resilience against flooding and help preserve the natural values of floodplains. Incorporating this   will ensure that agencies expand management from the current base flood level to a higher vertical elevation and corresponding horizontal floodplain to address current and future flood risk and ensure that projects funded with taxpayer dollars last as long as intended.

This order establishes the   and sets forth a process for further solicitation and consideration of public input, including from  , mayors, and other stakeholders, prior to implementation of the Standard.

 . 2

.

Amendments to Executive Order  

. Executive Order   is amended as follows:

(a) Section 2 is amended by inserting ", to the extent permitted by law" after "as follows".

(b) Section 2(a)(1) is amended by striking "This Determination shall be made according to a   ( ) floodplain map or a more detailed map of an area, if available. If such maps are not available, the agency shall make a determination of the location of the floodplain based on the best-available information.   shall issue guidance on this information not  " and inserting in lieu thereof "To determine whether the action is located in a floodplain, the agency shall use one of the approaches in Section 6(c) of this   based on the best-available information and   effective   Map".

(c) Section 2(a)(2) is amended by inserting the following sentence after the first sentence:

"Where possible, an agency shall use natural systems, ecosystem processes, and nature-based approaches when developing alternatives for consideration.".

(d) Section 2(d) is amended by striking "Director" and inserting "Administrator" in lieu thereof.

(e) Section 3(a) is amended by inserting the following sentence after the first sentence:

"The regulations and procedures must also be consistent with   (FFRMS).".

(f) Section 3(a) is further amended by inserting "and FFRMS" after " ".

(g) Section 3(b) is amended by striking "base flood level" and inserting "elevation of the floodplain as defined in Section 6(c) of this Order" in lieu thereof.

(h) Section 4 is revised to read as follows:

"In addition to any responsibilities under this   102, 202, and 205 of   of  , as amended ( ,  , and  ), agencies which guarantee, approve, regulate, or insure any financial transaction which is related to an area located in an area subject to the base flood shall, prior to completing action on such transaction, inform any private parties participating in the transaction of the hazards of locating structures in the area subject to the base flood.".

(i) Section 6(c) is amended by striking ", including at a minimum, that area subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in  " and inserting in lieu thereof:

". The floodplain shall be established using one of the following approaches:

"(1) Unless an exception is made under paragraph (2), the floodplain shall be:

"(i) the elevation and flood hazard area that result from using a climate-informed science approach that uses the best-available, actionable hydrologic and hydraulic data and methods that integrate current and future changes in flooding based on climate science. This approach will also include an emphasis on whether the action is a critical action as one of the factors to be considered when conducting the analysis;

"(ii) the elevation and flood hazard area that result from using the freeboard value, reached by adding an additional 2 feet to the base flood elevation for non-critical actions and by adding an additional 3 feet to the base flood elevation for critical actions;

"(iii) the area subject to flooding by the 0.2 percent annual chance flood; or

"(iv) the elevation and flood hazard area that result from using any other method identified in an update to the  . "(2) The head of an agency may except an agency action from paragraph (1) where it is in the interest of national security, where the agency action is an emergency action, where application to a Federal facility or structure is demonstrably inappropriate, or where the agency action is a mission-critical requirement related to a national security interest or an emergency action. When an agency action is excepted from paragraph (1) because it is in the interest of national security, it is an emergency action, or it is a mission-critical requirement related to a national security interest or an emergency action, the agency head shall rely on the area of land subject to the base flood".

(j) Section 6 is further amended by adding the following new subsection (d) at the end:

"(d) The term 'critical action' shall mean any activity for which even a slight chance of flooding would be too great.".

(k) Section 8 is revised to read as follows:

"Nothing in this   shall apply to assistance provided for emergency work essential to save lives and protect property and public health and safety, performed pursuant to   and 502 of the   Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act of   (42 U.S.C.   and  ).".

 . 3

.

Agency Action

. (a) Prior to any action to implement the  , additional input from stakeholders shall be solicited and considered. To carry out this process:

(i)  , on behalf of  , shall publish for public comment draft amended     ( ) to provide guidance to agencies on the implementation of Executive Order  , as amended, consistent with the  ;

(ii) during the comment period,   shall host public meetings with stakeholders to solicit input; and

(iii) after the comment period closes, and based on the comments received on the draft Guidelines during the comment period, in accordance with subsections (a)(i) and (ii) of this section,   shall provide recommendations to  .

(b) After additional input from stakeholders has been solicited and considered as set forth in subsections (a)(i) and (ii) of this section and after consideration of the recommendations made by   pursuant to subsection (a)(iii) of this section,   shall issue amended   to provide guidance to agencies on the implementation of Executive Order  , as amended, consistent with the  .

(c) To the extent permitted by law, each agency shall, in consultation with  ,  ,  , and  , issue or amend existing regulations and procedures to comply with this order, and update those regulations and procedures as warranted. Within   of the closing of the public comment period for the draft amendments to the   as described in subsection (a) of this section, each agency shall submit an implementation plan to   staff that contains milestones and a timeline for implementation of this order and the  , by the agency as it applies to the agency's processes and mission. Agencies shall not issue or amend existing

regulations and procedures pursuant to this subsection until after   has issued amended   pursuant to subsection (b) of this order.

 . 4

.

Reassessment

. (a)   shall issue any further amendments to the   as warranted.

(b)   in consultation with   shall reassess the Standard  , after seeking  , and provide recommendations to   to update the   if warranted based on accurate and actionable science that takes into account changes to climate and other changes in flood risk.   shall issue an update to the Standard at least every 5 years.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall carry out its responsibilities under this order in consultation with  .

 

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
