Executive Order  —Coordinating Policies on   and Workers
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Policy.

Over  ,   has experienced a decline in employment in the automotive industry and among part suppliers. This decline accelerated dramatically from   to  , with more than 400,000 jobs being lost in the industry. Now,  , the   automotive industry is beginning to recover. The automotive industry has, over  , experienced its strongest period of job growth since  . Exports have expanded, and the domestic automakers in   gained market share for the first time since  . The automotive supply chain, which employs three times as many workers as the automakers, has also shown renewed strength. However, we still have a long way to go.

Over   my Administration has undertaken coordinated efforts on behalf of automotive communities, including targeted technical and financial assistance. For example,   set aside funds for green jobs and job training for high-growth sectors of the economy specifically targeted to communities affected by the automotive downturn, and   provided funds specifically for automotive communities to develop plans for economic recovery. Stabilizing the automotive industry will also require the use of expanded strategies by automotive communities that include land-use redevelopment, small business support, and worker training.

The purpose of this order is to continue the coordinated Federal response to factors affecting automotive communities and workers and to ensure that Federal programs and policies address these concerns.

 . 2.

Assignment of Responsibilities to the Secretary of  .

(a) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) work to coordinate the development of policies and programs among executive departments and agencies with the goal of coordinating a Federal response to factors that have a distinct impact on automotive communities and workers, including through the coordination of economic adjustment assistance activities;

(ii) advise the President, in coordination with the Director of  , on the potential effects of pending legislation;

(iii) provide recommendations to the President, in coordination with the Director of  , on executive branch policy proposals affecting automotive communities and changes to Federal policies and programs intended to address issues of special importance to automotive communities and workers; and

(iv) conduct outreach to representatives of nonprofit organizations, businesses, labor organizations,   and local government agencies, elected officials, and other interested persons that will assist in bringing to the President's attention concerns, ideas, and policy options for expanding and improving efforts to revitalize automotive communities.

(b) The Secretary of   shall perform the functions assigned by this order in coordination with the Director of  . The Secretary of   may delegate these responsibilities to the Executive Director of  .

 . 3.

Revocation.

Executive Order  , is hereby revoked.

 . 4.

General Provisions.

(a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the Secretary of   or the Secretary's designee, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the responsibilities assigned by this order.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
