Executive Order 13716—Revocation of Executive Orders 13574,  ,  , and   With   to  , Amendment of Executive Order   With   to  , and   Commitments Under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note),  , Accountability, and Divestment Act of   (Public Law 111-195) (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), the   Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of   (Public Law 112-158),   of   (subtitle D of title   of Public Law 112-239) (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IFCA), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , have determined that  's implementation of the nuclear-related measures specified in sections 15.1-15.11 of Annex V of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of   (JCPOA) between the P5+1 ( ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  ),  , and  , as verified by  , marks a fundamental shift in circumstances with respect to  's nuclear program. In order to give effect to   commitments with respect to sanctions described in section 4 of Annex II and section 17.4 of Annex V of the JCPOA, I am revoking Executive Orders 13574 of  ,   of  , and  , and amending Executive Order   of  , by revoking sections 5 through 7 and section 15. In addition, in section 3 of this order, I am taking steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , to provide implementation authorities for aspects of certain statutory sanctions that are outside the scope of the   commitment to lift nuclear-related sanctions under the JCPOA.

This action is not intended to, and does not, limit the applicability of waiver determinations or any renewals thereof issued by the Secretary of  , or licenses issued by the Secretary of the  , to give effect to sanctions commitments described in sections 17.1-17.3 and 17.5 of Annex V of the JCPOA, or otherwise affect the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , which shall remain in place, or any Executive Order issued in furtherance of that national emergency other than Executive Orders 13574,  ,  ,  , and  .

I hereby order:

Section 1

.

Revocation of Executive Orders

. The following   are revoked:

(a) Executive Order 13574 of   (Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the Iran Sanctions Act of  , as Amended); (b) Executive   of   (Authorizing   to  , or Support for  's  );

(c) Executive Order   of   (Authorizing Additional Sanctions With Respect to  ); and

(d) Executive Order   (Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of   and Additional Sanctions With Respect To  ).

 . 2

.

Amendment of Executive Order

. Executive   of   (Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the   Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of   and   to  ), is amended by:

(a) Revoking current sections 5 through 7 and 15;

(b) Revising current section 4 by removing "section 5 of Executive Order   of  ," in subsection (a), replacing "section 12" with "section 9" in subsection (a), and replacing "section 12" with "section 9" in subsection (b);

(c) Revising current section 8 by inserting "and" between "2(a)," and "3(a)" and removing ", and 7(a)(iv)";

(d) Revising current section 9 by inserting "and" between "2(a)," and "3(a)" and removing ", and 7(a)(iv)";

(e) Revising current section 14 by inserting "and" between "2(a)," and "3(a)" and removing ", and 7(a)(iv)";

(f) Renumbering current sections 8 through 14 as sections 5 through  , respectively; and

(g) Renumbering current sections 16 through 19 as sections 12 through 15, respectively.

 . 3

.

Provision of Implementation Authorities for Sanctions Outside the Scope of the JCPOA

.

(a)(i) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to impose on a person the measures described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section upon determining, pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, that sanctions shall be imposed on such person pursuant to section 1244(c)(1)(A) of IFCA for knowingly providing significant financial, material, technological, or other support to, or goods or services in support of any activity or transaction on behalf of or for the benefit of persons described in section 1244(c)(2)(C)(iii) of  .

(ii) With respect to any person determined by the Secretary of the   in accordance with this subsection to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a)(i) of this section, all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person (including any foreign branch) of such person are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(iii) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(ii) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

(b)(i) When the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  , pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to sections 1244(d)(1)(A), 1245(a)(1), or 1246(a)(1) of IFCA (including in each case as informed by section 1253(c)(2) of IFCA) for engaging in transactions or activities outside the scope of the waiver determinations as to IFCA issued by the Secretary of   to give effect to sanctions commitments described in sections 17.1-17.3 and 17.5 of Annex V of the JCPOA, and any renewals thereof, such Secretary may select one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, and the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  :

(A) prohibit any   financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any   period, unless such person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;

(B) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of   and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;

(C) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(D) block all property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person (including any foreign branch) of the sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(E) prohibit any   person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of a sanctioned person;

(F) restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into   from the sanctioned person; or

(G) impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of a sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections (b)(i)(A)-(F) of this section, as selected by the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  , as appropriate.

(ii) The prohibitions in subsection (b)(i) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be

issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

( ) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person (including any foreign branch) of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of  :

(A) to have engaged, on or after  , in corruption or other activities relating to the diversion of goods, including agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices, intended for the people of  ;

(B) to have engaged, on or after  , in corruption or other activities relating to the misappropriation of proceeds from the sale or resale of goods described in subsection (c)(i)(A) of this section;

(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in subsection (c)(i)(A) or (c)(i)(B) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (c)(i) of this section; or

(D) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (c)(i) of this section.

(ii) The prohibitions in subsection (c)(i) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 4

.

Donations

. I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the types of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by subsections 3(a)(ii), 3(b)(i)(D), and 3(c)(i) of this order.

 . 5

.

Prohibitions

. The prohibitions in subsections 3(a)(ii), 3(b)(i)(D), and 3(c)(i) of this order include but are not limited to:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 6

.

Entry into  

. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into   of aliens who are determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsections 3(a)(i) and 3(c)(i) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of  , and I hereby suspend the entry into  , as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons as of the date of this order. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 7

.

General Authorities

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, other than the purposes described in section 6 of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law.

 . 8

.

Evasion and Conspiracy

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 9

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "financial institution," as used in subsection 3(b) of this order, includes:

(i) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of  ) (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of  ) (12 U.S.C. 3101(7));

(ii) a credit union;

(iii) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer;

(iv) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and

(v) any other company that provides financial services;

(c) the term "Government of Iran" includes  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including  , and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;

(d) the term " " means   and the territory of   and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and   shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements;

(e) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(f) the term "sanctioned person" means a person that the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the  , pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined is a person on whom sanctions shall be imposed pursuant to section 1244(d)(1)(A), 1245(a)(1), or 1246(a)(1) of IFCA (including in each case as informed by section 1253(c)(2) of IFCA) for engaging in transactions or activities outside the scope of the waiver determinations as to IFCA issued by the Secretary of   to give effect to sanctions commitments described in sections 17.1-17.3 and 17.5 of Annex V of the JCPOA, and any renewals thereof, and on whom the Secretary of   or the Secretary of the   has imposed any of the sanctions in subsection 3(b) of this order;

(g) the term "  financial institution" means a financial institution as defined in subsection (b) of this section (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   or located in  ; and

(h) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 10

.

Notice

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of an action taken pursuant to subsection 3(a)(ii), 3(b)(i)(D), or 3(c)(i) of this order.

 . 11

.

Direction to Agencies

. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 12

.

Rights

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 13

.

Effect on Actions or Proceedings

. Pursuant to section 202 of the   (  1622), the revocation of  ,  ,  , and   and the amendments to Executive Order   as set forth in sections 1 and 2 of this order, shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the date of this order, or any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the date of this order.

 . 14

.

Relationship to Algiers Accords

. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
