Executive Order  —Establishing   on Native American Affairs
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to promote and sustain prosperous and resilient   tribal governments, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

.   recognizes a government-to-government relationship, as well as a unique legal and political relationship, with federally recognized tribes. This relationship is set forth in the Constitution of  , treaties, statutes,  , administrative rules and regulations, and judicial decisions. Honoring these relationships and respecting the sovereignty of tribal nations is critical to advancing tribal self-determination and prosperity.

As we work together to forge a brighter future for all  , we cannot ignore a history of mistreatment and destructive policies that have hurt tribal communities.   seeks to continue restoring and healing relations with   and to strengthen its partnership with tribal governments, for our more recent history demonstrates that tribal self-determination—the ability of tribal governments to determine how to build and sustain their own communities—is necessary for successful and prospering communities. We further recognize that restoring tribal lands through appropriate means helps foster tribal self-determination.

This order establishes a national policy to ensure that   engages in a true and lasting government-to-government relationship with federally recognized tribes in a more coordinated and effective manner, including by better carrying out its trust responsibilities. This policy is established as a means of promoting and sustaining prosperous and resilient tribal communities. Greater engagement and meaningful consultation with tribes is of paramount importance in developing any policies affecting tribal nations.

To honor treaties and recognize tribes' inherent sovereignty and right to self-government under   law, it is the policy of   to promote the development of prosperous and resilient tribal communities, including by:

(a) promoting sustainable economic development, particularly energy, transportation, housing, other infrastructure, entrepreneurial, and workforce development to drive future economic growth and security;

(b) supporting greater access to, and control over, nutrition and healthcare, including special efforts to confront historic health disparities and chronic diseases;

(c) supporting efforts to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of tribal justice systems and protect tribal communities;

(d) expanding and improving lifelong educational opportunities for   and  , while respecting demands for greater tribal control over tribal education, consistent with Executive Order   of   (    and   and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities); and

(e) protecting tribal lands, environments, and natural resources, and promoting respect for tribal cultures.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. There is established   on   (Council). The   shall improve coordination of Federal programs and the use of resources available to tribal communities.

 . 3

.

Membership

. (a) The Secretary of the   shall serve as  , which shall also include the heads of the following executive departments, agencies, and offices:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ;

(xxiv)  ;

(xxv)  ;

(xxvi)  ;

( )   and  ;

(xxviii)  ;

(xxix)  ;

(xxx)  ; and

(xxxi) such other executive departments, agencies, and offices as the   may, from time to time, designate.

(b) A member of the   may designate a senior-level official, who is a full-time officer or employee of  , to perform his or her functions.

(c)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(d) The   shall coordinate its policy development through  .

(e) The   shall coordinate its outreach to federally recognized tribes through   and  .

(f) The   shall meet three times a year, with any additional meetings convened as deemed necessary by the  . The   may invite other interested agencies and offices to attend meetings as appropriate.

 . 4

.

Mission and Function of the  

. The   shall work across executive departments, agencies, and offices to coordinate development of policy recommendations to support tribal self-governance and improve the quality of life for  , and shall coordinate   engagement with tribal governments and their communities. The   shall:

(a) make recommendations to the President, through the Director of  , concerning policy priorities, including improving the effectiveness of Federal investments in   communities, where appropriate, to increase the impact of Federal resources and create greater opportunities to help improve the quality of life for  ;

(b) coordinate, through the Director of   and  , Federal engagement with tribal governments and   stakeholders regarding issues important to  , including with tribal consortia, small businesses, education and training institutions including tribal colleges and universities, health-care providers, trade associations, research and grant institutions, law enforcement,   and local governments, and community and non-profit organizations;

(c) coordinate a more effective and efficient process for executive departments, agencies, and offices to honor   commitment to tribal consultation as set forth in Executive Order   ( ), and my memorandum of   ( ); and

(d) assist   and   in organizing   Tribal Nations Conference   by bringing together leaders invited from all federally recognized   tribes and senior officials from   to provide for direct government-to-government discussion of     country policy priorities.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) The heads of executive departments, agencies, and offices shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) For purposes of this order, "federally recognized tribe" means an   or   tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the   acknowledges to exist as an   tribe pursuant to   of  , 25 U.S.C. 479a.

(e) For purposes of this order, "    and  " means a member of an   tribe, as membership is defined by the tribe.

(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
