Executive Order  —Global Entrepreneurship
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. The   spirit of entrepreneurship is one of our most admired values around the world, and   has produced many of the world's most respected businesses and inspiring business creators. At a time when many societies confront extremism, unemployment, and slow economic growth, entrepreneurship holds out the promise of opportunity, prosperity, and security.

It is in the national interest for   to support innovation, global entrepreneurship, and the   private sector. Linking entrepreneurs with capital, new networks, and markets and providing skills and training will allow them to grow their businesses and positively impact their communities. It is also necessary that we help enable our global partners to invest in the tools and infrastructure that make this possible, including high-speed broadband; business incubators and accelerators; regional economic development programs and extension services; international people-to-people exchange programs; and the technical, export, and business assistance and mentoring that entrepreneurs need worldwide in order to drive economic growth and job creation.

This order sets forth the administration and goals of several programs designed to connect   and foreign entrepreneurs with   and promote entrepreneurship across   and around the world by sharing the knowledge, experience, and connectivity necessary to help develop the next generation of entrepreneurs.

 . 2

.

Administration of the Presidential Ambassadors for Global Entrepreneurship Program

. (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall administer   ( ) to enable individuals who exemplify the spirit of   entrepreneurship and who have proven track records to use their networks, platforms, and voices to support aspiring entrepreneurs and advance public policies that encourage entrepreneurship in   and around the globe. Individuals selected for participation in the PAGE Program shall be known as PAGE Members.

(b) The PAGE Program shall be administered by a Director, appointed by the Secretary under authorities of  ). Commerce shall provide necessary staff, resources, and administrative support for the PAGE Program to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

 . 3

.

PAGE Advisory Board

. (a) The Secretary shall establish an   to advise the Secretary by recommending such priorities, standards, and partnerships as may be beneficial to fulfill the goals of the PAGE Program and to identify potential opportunities for   Members to support the PAGE Program.

(b) The Secretary shall serve as  . In addition to the  , the membership of the   shall include the Secretary of  ,    ),   ( ), and   ( ), or their designees, and such other representatives of executive departments and agencies (agencies) as may be designated by the Secretary. Consistent with law,   may consult with industry, academia, and other non-federal entities to ensure that   is continually identifying opportunities to apply innovative practices in effective ways to promote entrepreneurship.

 . 4

.

Selection of PAGE Members

. (a) The Secretary, in accordance with applicable law, shall prescribe appropriate procedures for the selection of PAGE Members. PAGE Members will total no more than 25 at any given time.

(b) PAGE Members may participate in the PAGE Program for periods of  , and may be selected to participate for additional periods at the discretion of the Secretary.

 . 5

.

Responsibilities of Agencies

.  ),  , and   are encouraged to work with the Secretary and   to maximize   benefits to innovation, global entrepreneurship, and the   private sector through the identification of opportunities for entrepreneurs to access capital, education, mentorships, and other services that will help to grow their businesses.

 . 6

.

Global Entrepreneurship Summit

. (a) The Secretary of   shall coordinate   participation in   ( ), which will focus on connecting entrepreneurs around the world and empowering them to expand their enterprises and build lasting relationships with  ; increasing global economic prosperity; building secure communities; promoting responsible business conduct, including business practices to encourage greater representation of all people, including women, youth, and minorities; and using innovation to solve pressing global challenges.

(b) State shall coordinate with  ,  , and   to identify and carry out programs and activities that will further the goals of the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

 . 7

.

Accelerating Entrepreneurship and Economic Opportunity by Expanding Internet Access Globally

. State, in coordination with other agencies, multilateral institutions, foreign countries, and stakeholders, shall work to actively promote global Internet connectivity. Specifically, the Global Connect Initiative shall focus on encouraging foreign countries to prioritize Internet connectivity in development plans, promoting the formation of region-specific multi-sector working groups to ensure technical and regulatory best practices, and encouraging the development of digital literacy programs in developing nations.

 . 8

.

 

.

(a) In order to ensure a coordinated and consistent approach in agency implementation of the goals set forth in section 7 of this order, there is hereby established a  Steering Group), chaired by  .

(b)   shall be composed of a representative from each of the following agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ; (v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ; and

(xii)    .

(c) The   shall invite a representative from  , and may invite a representative from any other department, agency, component, or office the   deems appropriate, to participate as a member of  .

(d) The   shall consult with the following entities in setting the agenda of   and ensuring coordination with other Administration policies:

(i)  ;

(ii)   Staff; and

(iii)  .

(e) Not   after the date of this order, the   shall report to the Secretary of  . In this report, the   shall:

(i) describe the current state of agency procedures, requirements, programs, and policies related to the goals of  ; and

(ii) provide updates on the strategy and the evaluation criteria for Federal contributions to the Global Connect Initiative.

(f) The Secretary of   may request a periodic update of this report   thereafter, through  , on progress that has been made in achieving the goals of  .

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
