Executive Order  —Delivering an Efficient, Effective, and  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to cut waste, streamline Government operations, and reinforce the performance and management reform gains my Administration has achieved, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Policy.

My Administration is committed to ensuring that   serves the   people with the utmost effectiveness and efficiency. Over  , we have made good progress and have saved taxpayer dollars by cutting waste and increasing the efficiency of Government operations by curbing uncontrolled growth in contract spending, terminating poorly performing information technology projects, deploying state of the art fraud detection tools to crack down on waste, focusing agency leaders on achieving ambitious improvements in high priority areas, and opening Government up to the public to increase accountability and accelerate innovation.

The   people must be able to trust that their   is doing everything in its power to stop wasteful practices and earn a high return on every tax dollar that is spent. To strengthen that trust and deliver a smarter and leaner Government, my Administration will reinforce the performance and management reform gains achieved thus far; systematically identify additional reforms necessary to eliminate wasteful, duplicative, or otherwise inefficient programs; and publicize these reforms so that they may serve as a model across  .

The implementation of   of   (Public Law 111-5) (Recovery Act) has seen unprecedented transparency. The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board ( ) has developed innovative technologies and approaches for preventing and identifying fraud and abuse that have the potential to improve performance across all of Government spending.

 . 2.

Accountable Government Initiative.

(a) On  , in a Memorandum to  , my Administration introduced goals for   (Initiative). The mission of the   is to monitor and promote agency progress in making   work better, faster, and more efficiently. To hold executive departments and agencies (agencies) accountable for obtaining results consistent with this mission, the Vice President shall convene periodic meetings in which   members and the Director of   (OMB) report to him on improvements implemented under their direction.

(b) The Federal Chief Performance Officer ( ), who also serves as the Deputy Director for Management of OMB and the Chair of the President's   ( ), shall work with the   to support agencies' performance and management reform and cost-cutting efforts. The   will lead OMB and the   in identifying practices that should be adopted across agencies and in facilitating reforms that require cross-agency coordination and cooperation. The   shall work with agencies to ensure that each area identified as critical to performance improvement has robust performance metrics in place, and that these metrics are frequently analyzed and reviewed by agency leadership. Agencies shall update these metrics  , as appropriate, on the website performance.gov.

(c) In accordance with the GPRA Modernization Act of   (31 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), each agency's Chief Operating Officer ( ) shall be designated as the Senior Accountable Official responsible for leading performance and management reform efforts, and for reducing wasteful or ineffective programs, policies, and procedures. In discharging this responsibility, this official shall be accountable for conducting frequent data-driven reviews of agency progress toward goals in the areas that OMB identifies as being critical to performance improvement across agencies or that the agency head identifies as top near-term priorities. These goals may include reforming information technology, reducing improper payments, leveraging   purchasing scale, reducing high-risk contracting practices, improving the management of Federal real estate, enhancing customer service, and achieving agency and   priority goals identified pursuant to the GPRA Modernization Act of  .

(d) The Director of OMB shall provide guidance to agencies as part of   budget process for identifying areas of program overlap and duplication within and across agencies, and for proposing consolidations and reductions to address those inefficiencies.

(e) The Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) at all agencies shall be responsible for achieving agency cost savings. This will include each agency's share of the $2.1 billion in administrative cost savings identified in my Fiscal Year 2012 Budget, and for achieving those savings as quickly as possible. The CFOs are encouraged to realize these cost savings by targeting wasteful practices and by reducing, and identifying alternatives to, discretionary travel, the use of consultants, and other administrative expenses.   shall provide a   report on these efforts to the  , with relevant findings and progress reported on performance.gov.

 . 3.

Government Accountability and Transparency Board.

(a) There is hereby established a Government Accountability and Transparency Board (Board) to provide strategic direction for enhancing the transparency of Federal spending and advance efforts to detect and remediate fraud, waste, and abuse in Federal programs. The Board shall be composed of 11 members designated by the President from among agency  , agency Chief   or Deputy Secretaries, a senior official of OMB, and such other members as the President shall designate. The President shall designate a   from among the members. Building on the lessons learned from the successful implementation of the Recovery Act, the   shall work with the   to apply the approaches developed by the   across Government spending.

(b) Not   after the date of this order, the   shall submit a report to the President that identifies implementation guidelines for integrating systems that support the collection and display of Government spending data, ensuring the reliability of those data, and broadening the deployment of fraud detection technologies, including those proven successful during the implementation of the Recovery Act.

(c) The Director of OMB, in consultation with the  , shall be responsible for assisting executive agencies in achieving objectives in the guidelines identified in subsection (b) above.

(d) The Chair of the Board, in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall provide   updates to the Vice President on the progress obtained under this order.

 . 4.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   related to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
