Executive Order  —  to  
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) ( ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , in view of the policies underlying Executive Order   of  , and Executive Order   of  , and the restrictions put in place pursuant to Executive Order  , find that the risk of nuclear proliferation created by the accumulation of a large volume of weapons-usable fissile material in the territory of   continues to constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  , and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby order:

Section 1

. A major national security goal of   is to ensure that fissile material removed from   nuclear weapons pursuant to various arms control and disarmament agreements is dedicated to peaceful uses, subject to transparency measures, and protected from diversion to activities of proliferation concern. As reflected in Executive Order  , the full implementation of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and  , dated  , and related contracts and agreements (collectively, the "HEU Agreements") is essential to the attainment of this goal. The HEU Agreements provide for the conversion of approximately 500 metric tons of highly enriched uranium contained in   nuclear weapons into low-enriched uranium for use as fuel in commercial nuclear reactors. In furtherance of our national security goals, all heads of departments and agencies of   shall continue to take all appropriate measures within their authority to further the full implementation of  .

 . 2

. Government of   assets directly related to the implementation of   currently may be subject to attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process, thereby jeopardizing the full implementation of   to the detriment of   foreign policy. In order to ensure the preservation and proper and complete transfer to   of all payments due to it under the HEU Agreements, and except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, or that were issued pursuant to Executive Order  , all property and interests in property of   directly related to the implementation of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   persons, including any foreign branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in. Unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this order, or Executive Order  , any attachment, judgment, decree,  , execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to this order.

 . 3

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ; and

(d) the term "Government of the Russian Federation" means the Government of  , any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of  .

 . 5

. (a) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and, as appropriate, other agencies, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their statutory authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b) Nothing contained in this order shall relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from any department or agency of   in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of the department or agency.

 . 6

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
