Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  ,  
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq.

, it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1.

Order of Succession.

(a) Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Secretary of   (Secretary) during any period in which the Secretary has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of the Secretary, until such time as the Secretary is able to perform the functions and duties of that office:

(1) Deputy Secretary of  ;

(2) Secretary of the  ;

(3) Secretary of the  ;

(4) Secretary of  ;

(5) Under Secretary of  , and  ;

(6) Under Secretary of Defense for Policy;

(7) Under Secretary of  );

(8) Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and  ;

(9) Under Secretary of  ;

(10) Deputy Chief Management Officer,  ;

(11) Principal Deputy Under Secretary of  , and  ;

(12) Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy;

(13) Principal Deputy Under Secretary of  );

(14) Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and  ;

(15) Principal Deputy Under Secretary of  ;

(16) Director of  ;

(17)   of  , the Assistant Secretaries of Defense, the Assistant to the Secretary of     and  , the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, the Director of Operational Energy Plans and  , and the Director of  ;

(18) Under Secretaries of the  , the  , and  ; and

(19) Assistant Secretaries of the  , the  , and  , and General Counsels of the  , the  , and  .

(b) Precedence among officers designated within the same paragraph of subsection (a) shall be determined by the order in which they have been appointed to such office. Where officers designated within the same paragraph of subsection (a) have the same appointment date, precedence shall be determined by the order in which they have taken the oath to serve in that office.

 . 2.

Exceptions.

(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual listed in section 1 shall act as Secretary unless that individual was appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  , and that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under   of  , as amended.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 . 3. Revocation

. Executive Order   of   (Providing An Order of Succession Within  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 4.

 .

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
