Executive Order 13612—Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1

.

Order of Succession.

(a) Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) during any period in which both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture (Deputy Secretary) have died, resigned, or are otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary:

(1) Under Secretary of  ;

(2) Under Secretary of  , and  ;

(3) Assistant Secretary of  ;

(4) Under Secretary of    , and  ;

(5) Under Secretary of  ;

(6) Under Secretary of  ;

(7) Under Secretary of  ;

(8) Under Secretary of  ;

(9)   of  ;

(10) Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary;

(11)   Executive Directors of   for  ,  , and  , in order of seniority fixed by length of unbroken service as   Executive Director of that  ;

(12)     for   ( ,  ),   ( ,  ), and   ( ,  ), in order of seniority fixed by length of unbroken service as   of that  ;

(13) Chief Financial Officer of  ;

(14) Assistant Secretary of  ); and

(15) Assistant Secretary of  ).

(b) If any two or more individuals designated in paragraph (11) or (12) of subsection (a) were sworn in to, or commenced service in, their respective offices on  , precedence shall be determined by the alphabetical order of the   in which the individual serves.

 

.

2

.

Exceptions.

(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)(1)-(15) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)(1)-(15) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under   of  .

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 

.

3

.

Revocation.

Executive Order   of   (Providing an Order of Succession Within  ), is hereby revoked.

 

.

4

.

 .

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
