Executive Order  —Facilitation of a Presidential Transition
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 7301 of title 5, United States Code, and the Presidential Transition Act of  , as amended, and to assist the Presidential transition, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. The peaceful transition of power has long been a hallmark of   democracy. It is the policy of   to undertake all reasonable efforts to ensure that Presidential transitions are well-coordinated and effective, without regard to party affiliation.

 . 2

.

Establishment of  

. (a) To facilitate the Presidential transition, including assisting and supporting the transition efforts of the transition teams of eligible candidates, there is established a  .

(b)   shall be composed of the following officials or their designees:

(i) Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, who shall serve as  ;

(ii) Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for  , who shall serve as Vice Chair;

(iii) Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Implementation;

(iv) Counsel to the President;

(v) Assistant to the President for  ;

(vi) Assistant to the President for  ;

(vii) Assistant to the President for   and  ;

(viii) Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director,  ;

(ix) Director of  ;

(x) Director of  ;

(xi) Administrator of  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii) the transition representative for each eligible candidate, who shall serve in an advisory capacity; and

( ) any other executive branch official the President determines appropriate.

(c)   shall:

(i) provide guidance to executive departments and agencies (agencies) and   regarding preparations for the Presidential transition, including succession planning and preparation of briefing materials;

(ii) facilitate communication and information sharing between the transition representatives of eligible candidates and senior employees in agencies and   of the President, including the provision of information relevant to facilitating the personnel aspects of a Presidential transition and such other information that, in the  's judgment, is useful and appropriate, as long as providing such information is not otherwise prohibited by law; and

(iii) prepare and host interagency emergency preparedness and response exercises.

(d) In order to obtain a wide range of facts and information on prior transitions and best practices,  , its members, or their designees may seek information from private individuals, including individuals in outside organizations, who have significant experience or expertise in Presidential transitions.  , its members, or their designees shall endeavor to obtain such facts and information from individuals representing a range of bipartisan or nonpartisan viewpoints. If  , its members, or their designees find it necessary to seek advice from private individuals or outside organizations, such counsel should be sought in a manner that seeks individual advice and does not involve collective judgment or deliberation.

 . 3

.

Establishment of the Agency Transition Directors Council

. (a) To implement the guidance provided by   and to coordinate transition activities across agencies, there is established an  .

(b)   shall be composed of the following officials or their designees:

(i) Federal Transition Coordinator, who shall serve as  ;

(ii) Deputy Director for  , who shall serve as  ;

(iii) a senior career representative from each agency described in section 901(b)(1) of title  , United States Code,  ,  , and   whose responsibilities include leading Presidential transition efforts within the agency;

(iv) during   in which a Presidential election will be held, a transition representative for each eligible candidate, who shall serve in an advisory capacity;

(v) a senior career representative from any other agency determined by   to be an agency that has significant responsibilities relating to the Presidential transition process; and

(vi) other senior employees serving in   of the President, as determined by the President.

(c)   shall:

(i) ensure   has an integrated strategy for addressing interagency challenges and responsibilities around Presidential transitions and turnover of non-career appointees;

(ii) coordinate transition activities among   of the President, agencies, and the transition team of eligible candidates and the President-elect and Vice-President-elect;

(iii) draw on guidance provided by   and lessons learned from previous Presidential transitions in carrying out its duties;

(iv) assist   in identifying and carrying out his or her responsibilities relating to a Presidential transition; (v) provide guidance to agencies in gathering briefing materials and information relating to the Presidential transition that may be requested by eligible candidates;

(vi) ensure materials and information described in subparagraph (v) of this subsection are prepared not later than November 1 of the year during which a Presidential election is held;

(vii) ensure agencies adequately prepare career employees who are designated to fill non-career positions during a Presidential transition; and

(viii) consult with  , or any successor thereto, in carrying out its duties.

(d)   shall meet:

(i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this subsection, not less than once per year; and

(ii) during the period beginning on the date that is   before a Presidential election and ending on the date on which the President-elect is inaugurated, on a regular basis as necessary to carry out its duties and authorities.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) The terms "eligible candidate," "Federal Transition Coordinator," and "Presidential election" shall have the same meaning as those terms used in the Presidential Transition Act of  , as amended. The term "President's  " shall have the same meaning as that term is used in    .

(d) This order is intended only to facilitate the transition and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
