Executive Order  —  a Strategic Partnership With  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 202 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C.  ) and section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established within  , in accordance with section   of title 5, United States Code, a temporary organization to be known as   (ISPO).

 . 2.

Purpose of  .

The purpose of the   shall be to perform the specific project of supporting executive departments and agencies in facilitating the strategic partnership between   and  , in further securing and stabilizing the country, and in continuing an effective diplomatic presence in  .

 . 3.

Functions of  .

In carrying out its purpose set forth in section 2, the ISPO shall:

(a) support executive departments and agencies in transitioning to a strategic partnership with   in economic, diplomatic, cultural, and security fields based on the Strategic Framework Agreement;

(b) assist with and coordinate the drawdown of  ;

(c) support and create a sustainable Rule of Law mission in  , including  ;

(d) complete any remaining coordination, oversight, or reporting functions for   monies;

(e) assume any functions assigned to   ( ) remaining as of the date of this order; and

(f) perform such other functions related to the specific project set forth in section 2 as the Secretary of   (Secretary) may assign.

 . 4.

 .

(a) The ISPO shall be headed by a Director selected by the Secretary.

(b) The Secretary shall transfer from the   to the   the personnel, assets, liabilities, and records of the  .

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) This order shall be implemented in accordance with applicable law, subject to the availability of appropriations, and consistent with Presidential guidance.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The ISPO shall terminate at the end of the maximum period permitted by section 3161 (a) (1) of title 5, United States Code, unless sooner terminated by the Secretary.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   Secretary on  , and it was published in  on  .
