Executive Order 13574—Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the Iran Sanctions Act of  , as Amended
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) ( ), as amended by,

inter alia

,  , Accountability, and Divestment Act of   (Public Law 111-195), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1.

(a) When the President, or the Secretary of   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, which includes consultation with the Secretary of the  , has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to section 5 of   and has selected the sanctions set forth in section 6 of   to impose on that person, the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall take the following actions with respect to the sanctions imposed and maintained by the President or by the Secretary of   pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of such delegation:

(i) with respect to section 6(a)(3) of  , prohibit any   financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the  -sanctioned person consistent with section 6(a)(3) of  ;

(ii) with respect to section 6(a)(6) of  , prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of   and in which the  -sanctioned person has any interest;

(iii) with respect to section 6(a)(7) of  , prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of   and involve any interest of the  -sanctioned person;

(iv) with respect to section 6(a)(8) of  , block all property and interests in property that are in  , that come within  , or that are or come within the possession or control of any   person, including any overseas branch, of the  -sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in; or

(v) with respect to section 6(a)(9) of  , restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into   from the  -sanctioned person.

(b) I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the types of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any  -sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a)(iv) of this section would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by subsection (a)(iv) of this section.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(iv) of this section include but are not limited to:

(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any  -sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such  -sanctioned person.

(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 2.

(a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3.

For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term "financial institution" includes (i) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of  ) (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of  ) (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)); (ii) a credit union; (iii) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; (iv) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and (v) any other company that provides financial services;

(e) the term "  financial institution" means a financial institution (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of   or of any jurisdiction within  ; and

(f) the term " -sanctioned person" means a person that the President, or the Secretary of   pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, including consultation with the Secretary of the  , has determined is a person on whom sanctions shall be imposed pursuant to section 5 of   and on whom the President or the Secretary of   has imposed any of the sanctions in section 6 of  .

 . 4.

For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 1(a)(iv) of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of an action taken pursuant to section 1(a)(iv) of this order.

 . 5.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and sections  ), 6(a)(7), 6(a)(8), and 6(a)(9) of  , and to employ all powers granted to   by section 6(a)(3) of   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7.

The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the   Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
