Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to strengthen the efforts of  , in conjunction with  , tribal, territorial, and local agencies, to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes and other violations relating to the current financial crisis and economic recovery efforts, recover the proceeds of such crimes and violations, and ensure just and effective punishment of those who perpetrate financial crimes and violations, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

There is hereby established an interagency   (Task Force) led by  .

 . 2.

Membership and Operation.

The Task Force shall be chaired by the Attorney General and consist of senior-level officials from the following departments, agencies, and offices, selected by the heads of the respective departments, agencies, and offices in consultation with the Attorney General:

(a)  ;

(b)  ;

(c)  ;

(d)  ;

(e)  ;

(f)  ;

(g)  ;

(h)  ;

(i)  ;

(j)  ;

(k)  ;

(l)   of  ;

(m)  ;

(n)  ;

(o)  ;

(p)  ;

(q)  ;

(r)  ;

(s)  , Criminal Investigations;

(t)  ;

(u)  ;

(v)  ;

(w)  ;

(x) relevant Offices of Inspectors General and related Federal entities, including without limitation   for  , the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, and   for  ; and

(y) such other executive branch departments, agencies, or offices as the President may, from time to time, designate or that the Attorney General may invite.

The Attorney General shall convene and, through the Deputy Attorney General, direct the work of   in fulfilling all its functions under this order. The Attorney General shall convene the first meeting of   within   of the date of this order and shall thereafter convene   at such times as he deems appropriate. At the direction of the Attorney General,   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of Task Force members or their designees under this section, including but not limited to a   chaired by the Deputy Attorney General, and subcommittees addressing enforcement efforts, training and information sharing, and victims' rights, as the Attorney General deems appropriate.

 . 3.

Mission and Functions.

Consistent with the authorities assigned to the Attorney General by law, and other applicable law, the Task Force shall:

(a) provide advice to the Attorney General for the investigation and prosecution of cases of bank, mortgage, loan, and lending fraud; securities and commodities fraud; retirement plan fraud; mail and wire fraud; tax crimes; money laundering; False Claims Act violations; unfair competition; discrimination; and other financial crimes and violations (hereinafter financial crimes and violations), when such cases are determined by the Attorney General, for purposes of this order, to be significant;

(b) make recommendations to the Attorney General, from time to time, for action to enhance cooperation among  ,  , local, tribal, and territorial authorities responsible for the investigation and prosecution of significant financial crimes and violations; and

(c) coordinate law enforcement operations with representatives of  , local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement.

 . 4.

Coordination with State, Local, Tribal, and  .

Consistent with the objectives set out in this order, and to the extent permitted by law, the Attorney General is encouraged to invite the following representatives of  , local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement to participate in   subcommittee addressing enforcement efforts in the subcommittee's performance of the functions set forth in section 3(c) of this order relating to the coordination of Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement operations involving financial crimes and violations:

(a)  ;

(b)  ; and

(c) such other representatives of  , local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement as the Attorney General deems appropriate.

 . 5.

 .

Consistent with the law enforcement objectives set out in this order,  , in accordance with applicable law, in addition to regular meetings, shall conduct outreach with representatives of financial institutions, corporate entities, nonprofit organizations,  , local, tribal, and territorial governments and agencies, and other interested persons to foster greater coordination and participation in the detection and prosecution of financial fraud and financial crimes, and in the enforcement of antitrust and antidiscrimination laws.

 . 6.

Administration.

 , to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, shall provide administrative support and funding for  .

 . 7.

General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This Task Force shall replace, and continue the work of,   created by Executive Order 13271 of  . Executive   is hereby terminated pursuant to section 6 of that order.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 8.

Termination.

The Task Force shall terminate when directed by the President or, with the approval of the President, by the Attorney General.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
