Executive Order  —Providing for the Appointment in   of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including sections   and   of title 5, United States Code, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

.   benefits from a workforce that can be recruited from the broadest and deepest pools of qualified candidates for our highly competitive, merit-based positions. The recruitment and retention of workforce participants who serve in   under a Limited Non-Career Appointment under section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of  , Public Law 96-465 (22 U.S.C.  ), as amended, are critical to our ability to meet consular staffing levels (now in substantial deficit) and thereby enhance our capacity to meet high national security standards and efficiently process visas in accordance with our policy of "open doors, safe borders." Program participants undergo a rigorous merit-based evaluation process, which includes a written test and an oral assessment and to which a veteran preference applies, and develop advanced- to superior-level skills in languages and in cultural competence in particular regions, skills that are essential for mission-critical positions throughout the entire Federal workforce.

Executive Order  , sought to ensure that 80 percent of nonimmigrant visa applicants be interviewed within   of receiving an application.   ability to maintain this 80 percent benchmark will come under increasing pressure in the future given current and projected staffing shortfalls through  . These staffing gaps could adversely affect   ability to sustain border security and immigration control at peak efficiency and effectiveness, which will have effects on tourism, job creation, and   economic growth. Use of   hiring authority will provide flexibility to address, for the foreseeable future, both this increased demand and recurring institutional and national needs across  .

Accordingly, pursuant to my authority   U.S.C. 3302(1), and in order to achieve a workforce that represents all segments of society as provided in 5 U.S.C. 2301(b)(1), I find that conditions of good administration make necessary an exception to the competitive hiring rules for certain positions in the Federal civil service.

 . 2

. The head of any agency in the executive branch may appoint in the competitive service an individual who served for   of continuous service in   under a Limited Non-Career Appointment under section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of  , and who passes such examination as   (OPM) may prescribe.

 . 3

. In order to be eligible for noncompetitive appointment to positions under section 2 of this order, such an individual must:

(a) have received a satisfactory or better performance rating (or equivalent) for service under the qualifying  ; and (b) exercise the eligibility for noncompetitive appointment within a period of   after completion of the qualifying  . Such period may be extended to not   in the case of persons who, following such service, are engaged in military service, in the pursuit of studies at an institution of higher learning, or in other activities that, in the view of the appointing authority, warrant an extension of such period. Such period may also be extended to permit the adjudication of a background investigation.

 . 4

. A person appointed under section 2 of this order shall become a career conditional employee.

 . 5
