Executive Order  —Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between   by Certain Labor Organizations
 
 

Disputes exist between   and certain of its employees represented by certain labor organizations. The labor organizations involved in these disputes are designated on the attached list, which is made part of this order.

The disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).

A first emergency board to investigate and report on these disputes was established on  , by Executive Order  . The emergency board terminated upon issuance of its report. Subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted by the parties.

A party empowered by the   has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the   (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(e) of the   provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint a second emergency board to investigate and report on the disputes.

Now, Therefore,

by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 9A of the  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment of Emergency Board (Board)

. There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  , a Board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate and report on these disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2

.

Report

. Within   after the creation of the Board, the parties to the disputes shall submit to the   final offers for settlement of the disputes. Within   after the submission of final offers for settlement of the disputes, the   shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer.

 . 3

.

Maintaining Conditions

. As provided by section 9A(h) of the Act, from the time a request to establish a second emergency board is made until   after the   submits its report to the President, the parties to the controversy shall make no change in the conditions out of which the disputes arose except by agreement of the parties.

 . 4

.

Records Maintenance

. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5

.

Expiration

. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.

 

 ,  .

Related Images

112163-1.png

112163-2.png

112163-3.png

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
