Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Place is a strong determinant of opportunity and well-being. Research shows that the neighborhood in which a child grows up impacts his or her odds of going to college, enjoying good health, and obtaining a lifetime of economic opportunities. Even after   of total job growth since  , communities of persistent poverty remain and for far too many, the odds are stacked against opportunity and achieving the   dream. In addition, between now and  , growing our economy, expected population growth, climate change, and demographic shifts will require major new investments in physical, social, and technological infrastructure.

Specific challenges in communities—including crime, access to care, opportunities to pursue quality education, lack of housing options, unemployment, and deteriorating infrastructure—can be met by leveraging Federal assistance and resources. While   provides rural, suburban, urban, and tribal communities with significant investments in aid  , coordinating these investments, as appropriate, across agencies based on locally led visions can more effectively reach communities of greatest need to maximize impact. In  ,   has deepened its engagement with communities, recognizing the critical role of these partnerships in enabling   to live healthier and more prosperous lives. Since  , the Community Solutions Task Force, comprising executive departments, offices, and agencies (agencies) across  , has served as the primary interagency coordinator of agency work to engage with communities to deliver improved outcomes. This order builds on recent work to facilitate inter-agency and community-level collaboration to meet the unique needs of communities in a way that reflects these communities' local assets, economies, geography, size, history, strengths, talent networks, and visions for the future.

 . 2

.

Principles

. Our effort to modernize   work with communities is rooted in the following principles:

(a) A community-driven, locally led vision and long-term plan for clear outcomes should guide individual projects.

(b)   should coordinate its efforts at the  , regional,  , local, tribal, and community level, and with cross-sector partners, to offer a more seamless process for communities to access needed support and ensure equitable investments.

(c)   should help communities identify, develop, and share local solutions, rely on data to determine what does and does not work, and harness technology and modern collaboration and engagement methods to help share these solutions and help communities meet their local goals.

 . 3

.

Community Solutions Council

.

(a)

Establishment

. There is hereby established a  ), led by two  . One   will be an Assistant to the President or the Director of  , as designated by the President. The second   will be rotated   and designated by the President from among the heads of  ,  ,  ,  , Transportation, and  , and   ( ).

(b)

Membership

. The   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of the  ;

(vi) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii) the Secretary of  ;

( ) the Secretary of  ;

(xv) the Secretary of  ;

(xvi) the Administrator of  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii) the Administrator of  ;

(xix) the Chief Executive Officer of  ;

(xx) the Chairperson of  ;

(xxi) the Director of  ;

(xxii)   of  ;

(xxiii)   of  ;

(xxiv) the Director of  ;

(xxv) the Director of  ;

(xxvi) the Chair of  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President for   and Public Engagement; (xxviii) the Assistant to the President and   Secretary;

(xxix) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of  ;

(xxx) the Chair of  ;

(xxxi) the Director of  ;

(xxxii) the Assistant to the President and Chief Technology Officer;

(xxxiii) the Administrator of  ; and

(xxxiv) other officials, as   may designate or invite to participate.

(c)

Administration

.

(i) The President will designate one of   to appoint or designate, as appropriate, an Executive Director, who shall coordinate the  's activities. The department, agency, or component within   of the President in which the Executive Director is appointed or designated, as appropriate, (funding entity) shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

(ii) To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act, and within existing appropriations, participating agencies may detail staff to the funding entity to support the  's coordination and implementation efforts.

(iii)   shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate.

(iv) A member of the   may designate a senior-level official who is part of the member's department, agency, or office to perform the   functions of the member.

 . 4

.

Mission and Priorities of the  

. (a) The   shall foster collaboration across agencies, policy councils, and offices to coordinate actions, identify working solutions to share broadly, and develop and implement policy recommendations that put the community-driven, locally led vision at the center of policymaking. The   shall:

(i) Work across agencies to coordinate investments in initiatives and practices that align the work of   to have the greatest impact on the lives of individuals and communities.

(ii) Use evidence-based practices in policymaking, including identifying existing solutions, scaling up practices that are working, and designing solutions with regular input of the individuals and communities to be served.

(iii) Invest in recruiting, training, and retaining talent to further the effective delivery of services to individuals and communities and empower them with best-practice community engagement options, open government transparency methods, equitable policy approaches, technical assistance and capacity building tools, and data-driven practice.

(b) Consistent with the principles set forth in this order and in accordance with applicable law, including  , the   should conduct outreach to representatives of nonprofit organizations, civil rights organizations, businesses, labor and professional organizations, start-up and entrepreneurial communities,  , local, and tribal government agencies, school districts, youth, elected officials, seniors, faith and other community-based organizations, philanthropies, technologists, other institutions of local importance, and other interested or affected persons with relevant expertise in the expansion and improvement of efforts to build local capacity, ensure equity, and address economic, social, environmental, and other issues in communities or regions.

 . 5

.

Executive Orders    , and Building Upon Other Efforts

. This order supersedes Executive Order   of   ( ), and Executive Order   (Establishing  , Strong Communities), which are hereby revoked.

This   builds on existing efforts involving Federal working groups, task forces, memoranda of agreement, and initiatives, including the Community Solutions Task Force,   dedicated to supporting the needs and priorities of local leadership in  ,  , and  ;  ;  ;  ,  ;  ;  ;  ; Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization; the Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative; Climate Action Champions;  ; Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership;  ; and the 2016 Memorandum of Agreement on Interagency Technical Assistance. The   shall also coordinate with existing Chief Officer Councils across the government with oversight responsibility for human capital, performance improvement, and financial assistance.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
