Executive Order  —Improving the Security of Consumer Financial Transactions
 
 

Given that identity crimes, including credit, debit, and other payment card fraud, continue to be a risk to   economic activity, and given the economic consequences of data breaches,   must take further action to enhance the security of data in the financial marketplace. While   credit, debit, and other payment card programs already include protections against fraud, the Government must further strengthen the security of consumer data and encourage the adoption of enhanced safeguards nationwide in a manner that protects privacy and confidentiality while maintaining an efficient and innovative financial system.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to improve the security of consumer financial transactions in both the private and public sectors, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Secure Government Payments

. In order to strengthen data security and thereby better protect citizens doing business with the  , executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, as soon as possible, transition payment processing terminals and credit, debit, and other payment cards to employ enhanced security features, including chip-and-PIN technology. In determining enhanced security features to employ, agencies shall consider relevant voluntary consensus standards and specifications, as appropriate, consistent with   of   and   A-119.

(a) The Secretary of the   shall take necessary steps to ensure that payment processing terminals acquired by agencies through   or through alternative means authorized by   have enhanced security features.  , all new payment processing terminals acquired in these ways shall include hardware necessary to support such enhanced security features. By  ,   shall develop a plan for agencies to install enabling software that supports enhanced security features.

(b)   shall take necessary steps to ensure that credit, debit, and other payment cards provided through   ( ) contracts have enhanced security features, and shall begin replacing credit, debit, and other payment cards without enhanced security features  .

(c) The Secretary of the   shall take necessary steps to ensure that   prepaid debit cards for administering Government benefits have enhanced security features, and by  ,   shall develop a plan for the replacement of   prepaid debit cards without enhanced security features.

(d) By  , other agencies with credit, debit, and other payment card programs shall provide to   (OMB) plans for ensuring that their credit, debit, and other payment cards have enhanced security features. (e) Nothing in this order shall be construed to preclude agencies from adopting additional standards or upgrading to more effective technology and standards to improve the security of consumer financial transactions as technologies and threats evolve.

 . 2

.

Improved Identity Theft Remediation

. To reduce the burden on consumers who have been victims of identity theft, including by substantially reducing the amount of time necessary for a consumer to remediate typical incidents:

(a) by  , the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall issue guidance to promote regular submissions, as appropriate and permitted by law, by Federal law enforcement agencies of compromised credentials to   and Training Alliance's Internet Fraud Alert System;

(b)  ,  , and   shall identify all publicly available agency resources for victims of identity theft, and shall provide to   ( ) information about such resources  , with updates thereafter as necessary. These agencies shall work in consultation with the   to streamline these resources and consolidate them wherever possible at the  's public website, IdentityTheft.gov; and

(c) OMB and   shall assist the   in enhancing the functionality of IdentityTheft.gov, including by coordinating with the credit bureaus to streamline the reporting and remediation process with credit bureaus' systems to the extent feasible, and in making the enhanced site available to the public by  .

 . 3

.

Securing Federal Transactions Online

. To help ensure that sensitive data are shared only with the appropriate person or people, within   of the date of this order,   staff,  , and OMB shall present to the President a plan, consistent with the guidance set forth in the   National Strategy for Trusted Identities in  , to ensure that all agencies making personal data accessible to citizens through digital applications require the use of multiple factors of authentication and an effective identity proofing process, as appropriate. Within   of this order, relevant agencies shall complete any required implementation steps set forth in the plan prepared pursuant to this section.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
