Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and consistent with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(c) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(e) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(f) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(h) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(i)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(l)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(m) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's   on   and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(o) President's   on     and  ; Executive Order 13515 ( ).

 . 2.

Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3.

Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   are superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4.

Executive Order   of  , is amended:

(a) in section 2(a), by striking "through   and  , as   of the   described in section 3 of this order" and inserting in lieu thereof "through   of the Initiative";

(b) in section 2(c), by striking "Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ," and inserting in lieu thereof "Co-Chairs of the Initiative";

(c) in the introductory text to section 3:

(1) by striking "The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as   of the Initiative" and inserting in lieu thereof "The Secretary of   and a senior official to be designated by the President from the membership of the Initiative shall serve as   of the Initiative"; and

(2) by striking "Secretaries" and inserting in lieu thereof "Co-Chairs"; and

(d) in section 3(b), in the list of agency members, by inserting " " after " " and inserting " " after " " and then redesignating the subsections of section 3(b) as appropriate.

 . 5.

This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .  , as amended ( ).

(m) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's   on   and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(o) President's   on     and  ; Executive Order 13515 ( ).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   are superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4. Executive Order   of  , is amended

(a) in section 2(a), by striking "through   and  , as   of the   described in section 3 of this order" and inserting in lieu thereof "through   of the Initiative";

(b) in section 2(c), by striking "Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  ," and inserting in lieu thereof "Co-Chairs of the Initiative";

(c) in the introductory text to section 3:

(1) by striking "The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as   of the Initiative" and inserting in lieu thereof "The Secretary of   and a senior official to be designated by the President from the membership of the Initiative shall serve as   of the Initiative"; and

(2) by striking "Secretaries" and inserting in lieu thereof "Co-Chairs"; and

(d) in section 3(b), in the list of agency members, by inserting " " after " " and inserting " " after " " and then redesignating the subsections of section 3(b) as appropriate.

 . 5. This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
