Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President, by the Constitution and the laws of  , and consistent with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(c) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(e) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(f) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's   and the  ; Executive  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(h) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(i)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j) Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(l)  ; Executive  , as amended ( ).

(m) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(n) President's   and Neighborhood Partnerships; Executive  , re-established by Executive Order  , and continued by Executive Order   ( ).

(o) President's   on     and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(p)   for the Study of Bioethical Issues; Executive   ( ).

(q)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(r) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(s) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(t) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(u) Interagency Task Force on  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(v)  , and  ; Executive Order  , re-established by Executive Order   ( ).

(w) State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector (SLTPS) Policy  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(x) President's  ; Executive Order  , re-established by Executive Order   ( ).

(y) President's  ; Executive Order   (   ).

(z) President's   for  ; Executive   ( ).

 . 2.

Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the regulations, guidelines, and procedures established by  .

 .

3.

Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order   of September 30, 2011, and sections 1, 2, and 4 of Executive Order 13591 of  , are superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4.

Executive Order  , is amended in section 4(c) by striking "The Executive Director shall serve as   in accordance with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) ( )" and inserting in lieu thereof "The   shall also have a Designated Federal Officer (DFO) in accordance with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (FACA). The Executive Director may serve as the  ".

 . 5.

Executive Order   of  , is amended by striking section 4 and renumbering the subsequent sections appropriately.

 . 6.

Executive   of  , as amended, is further amended by striking section 3, except subsection (c) thereof, and inserting immediately preceding subsection (c), the following:

"

Sec

.

3

.

 

.   ( ), established on  , shall provide the President, through the Secretary of  , with advice on the security and resilience of the critical infrastructure sectors and their functional systems, physical assets, and cyber networks.

"(a)

Membership

. The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President, taking appropriate account of the benefits of having members:

"(i) from the private sector, including individuals with experience in banking and finance, transportation, energy, water, communications, health care services, food and agriculture, government facilities, emergency services organizations, institutions of higher education, environmental and climate resilience, and  , local, and tribal governments;

"(ii) with senior executive leadership responsibilities for the availability and reliability, including security and resilience, of critical infrastructure sectors;

"(iii) with expertise relevant to the functions of the  ; and

"(iv) with experience equivalent to that of a chief executive of an organization.

"Unless otherwise determined by the President, no full-time officer or employee of the executive branch shall be appointed to serve as a member of the  . The President shall designate from among the members of   and a Vice Chair, who shall perform the functions of the   if the   is absent or disabled, or in the instance of a vacancy in the  .

"(b)

Functions of the  

. The   shall meet periodically to:

"(i) enhance the partnership of the public and private sectors in securing and enhancing the security and resilience of critical infrastructure and their supporting functional systems, physical assets, and cyber networks, and provide reports on this issue to the President, through the Secretary of  , as appropriate;

"(ii) propose and develop ways to encourage private industry to perform periodic risk assessments and implement risk-reduction programs;

"(iii) monitor the development and operations of critical infrastructure sector coordinating councils and their information-sharing mechanisms and provide recommendations to the President, through the Secretary of  , on how these organizations can best foster improved cooperation among the sectors,  , and other   entities;

"(iv) report to the President through the Secretary of  , who shall ensure appropriate coordination with the Assistant to the President for   and  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for   under the terms of this order; and

"(v) advise sector-specific agencies with critical infrastructure responsibilities to include issues pertaining to sector and government coordinating councils and their information sharing mechanisms.

"In implementing this order, the   shall not advise or otherwise act on matters pertaining to   and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) Communications and, with respect to any matters to which the   is authorized by this order to provide advice or otherwise act on that may depend on or affect  , shall coordinate with   established by Executive Order   of  , as amended.".

 . 7.

Executive Order   of  , is amended in section 3(b) by striking the "and" immediately preceding "the Chief Executive Officer of  " and by adding ",  , and the Chief Executive Officer of  " immediately preceding "shall serve as non-voting members". Executive Order   is further amended in section 5(c) by adding "administrative" immediately preceding "matters and activities pertaining".

 . 8.

Section 3(b) of Executive Order   of  , as amended, is further amended by inserting in the list of agency members " " and " " after " ", and redesignating the subsections of section 3(b) as appropriate. Subsection 3(b) is further amended by inserting at the end the following sentence:

"The Initiative is encouraged to invite other affected agencies, such as  ,  ,  , and   to attend meetings and participate in the   as appropriate.".

 . 9.

This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
