Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) (33 U.S.C.  ), section   of the Oil Pollution Act of   (33 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Executive   of  , was issued after the blowout and explosion of the mobile offshore drilling unit

 

that occurred on  , and resulted in the largest oil spill in   history (Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill). Executive   recognized the Gulf Coast as a national treasure and addressed the longstanding ecological decline of that region, which was compounded by the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. In doing so, Executive   established a   (Task Force) to coordinate intergovernmental efforts, planning, and the exchange of information in order to better implement Gulf Coast ecosystem restoration and facilitate appropriate accountability and support throughout the restoration process.

Since the implementation of Executive Order  ,   Gulf Coast ecosystem restoration planning efforts have advanced significantly.  ), created with input from  , tribal, and local governments, and thousands of involved citizens and organizations across the region, serves as a comprehensive restoration plan for addressing ecological concerns in the Gulf of Mexico. In light of the release of the Strategy, the ongoing work of   (Trustee Council) under the Oil Pollution Act, and the recent passage of  , Tourist Opportunities, and   of the Gulf Coast States Act of   (RESTORE Act) (title I, subtitle F of Public Law 112-141), this order affirms   Gulf Coast ecosystem restoration efforts and realigns responsibilities to ensure the most effective governmental planning and coordination to reach these goals.

 . 2

.

Termination of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force

. The progress of   is noteworthy. It has completed the Strategy and the preliminary planning and coordination tasks that it was intended to produce and has significantly advanced important ecosystem restoration goals for the Gulf of Mexico. In light of the recent creation, described below, of   (Gulf Restoration Council), which will build upon   already successful collaboration between  , and tribal governments and, as directed by statute, include and incorporate in its proposed comprehensive plan the findings and information prepared by  , the Task Force shall terminate   after   commences its work. The functions of   will be performed by   and   to the extent practicable, as set forth in this order. Prior to its termination,   will provide such assistance as is appropriate to  .

 . 3

.

  and  

.

(a)

 

. The RESTORE Act, which was signed into law as part of   in   (Public Law 112-141), established a mechanism for providing funding to the Gulf region to restore ecosystems and rebuild local economies damaged by the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. The RESTORE Act established in the   of     (Trust Fund), consisting of 80 percent of an amount equal to any administrative and civil penalties paid after the date of the RESTORE Act by the responsible parties in connection with the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill to   pursuant to a court order, negotiated settlement, or other instrument in accordance with section 311 of the   (33 U.S.C.  ).

(b)

 

. The RESTORE Act established  , an independent entity charged with developing a comprehensive plan for ecosystem restoration in the Gulf Coast (Comprehensive Plan), as well as any future revisions to  . Among its other duties,   is tasked with identifying projects and programs aimed at restoring and protecting the natural resources and ecosystems of the Gulf Coast region, to be funded from a portion of  ; establishing such other advisory committees as may be necessary to assist  , including a scientific advisory committee and a committee to advise   on public policy issues; gathering information relevant to Gulf Coast restoration, including through research, modeling, and monitoring; and providing an   report to the   on implementation progress. Consistent with the RESTORE Act, the   developed by   will include provisions necessary to fully incorporate the Strategy, projects, and programs recommended by  .

(c) Federal members of   and  , as well as all Federal entities involved in Gulf Coast restoration, shall work closely with one another to advance their common goals, reduce duplication, and maximize consistency among their efforts. All Federal members are directed to consult with each other and with all non-federal members in carrying out their duties on  .

 . 4

.

Ongoing Role of  

. (a) Executive   recognized the role of  , and designated trustees as provided in 33 U.S.C.  , with trusteeship over natural resources injured, lost, or destroyed as a result of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. Specifically, Executive   recognized the importance of carefully coordinating the work of   with  , whose members have statutory responsibility to assess natural resources damages from the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill, to restore trust resources, and seek compensation for lost use of those trust resources. Section 3(b) of Executive Order 13554 instructed   to "support   process by referring potential ecosystem restoration actions to the . . .   for consideration and facilitating coordination among the relevant departments, agencies, and offices, as appropriate, subject to the independent statutory responsibilities of the trustees."   (through  ),   (through the Fish and Wildlife Service and  ), and   have worked to identify linkages and opportunities for   to complement the restoration progress of  .

(b) Section 7(e) of Executive Order 13554 provides that nothing in that order shall interfere with the statutory responsibilities and authority of   or the individual trustees to carry out their statutory responsibilities to assess natural resource damages and implement restoration actions   U.S.C.   and other applicable law. Agencies that were members of the Task Force shall continue to comply with these requirements.

 . 5

.

Designating Trustees for Natural Resource Damage Assessment

. Given their authorities, programs, and expertise,   ( ) and  ) have institutional capacities that can contribute significantly to   and restoration efforts, including scientific and policy expertise as well as experience gained in the Task Force process and other planning efforts in the Gulf area. In addition,  's and  's relevant authorities cover a range of natural resources and their supporting ecosystems, including waters, sediments, barrier islands, wetlands, soils, land management, air resources, and drinking water supplies. The inclusion of   and   as trustees participating in   and restoration efforts will maximize coordination across   and enhance overall efficiencies regarding Gulf Coast ecosystem restoration. Accordingly, without limiting the designations in Executive Order   of  , or any other existing designations, and pursuant to section 2706(b)(2) of title 33, United States Code, I hereby designate the Administrator of   and the Secretary of Agriculture as additional trustees for   and restoration solely in connection with injury to, destruction of, loss of, or loss of use of natural resources, including their supporting ecosystems, resulting from the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. The addition of these   trustees does not, in and of itself, alter any existing agreements among or between the trustees and any other entity. All Federal trustees are directed to consult, coordinate, and cooperate with each other in carrying out all of their trustee duties and responsibilities.

The Administrator of   is hereby directed to revise Subpart G of   to reflect the designations for the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill discussed in this section.

 . 6. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of  , or those of the Director of  , relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) Executive   of  , is hereby revoked concurrent with the termination of   under the terms described in section 2 of this order.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
