117 HRES 1183 IH: Denouncing domestic terrorist violence against religious organizations and domestic terrorist violence against groups and organizations providing pregnancy support for expectant mothers, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-06-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1183
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 16, 2022
Mr. Babin
(for himself,
Mr. C. Scott Franklin of Florida
,
Ms. Tenney
,
Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Buck
,
Mr. Crenshaw
,
Mr. Mooney
,
Mr. Graves of Louisiana
,
Mr. Smith of New Jersey
,
Mrs. Boebert
,
Mr. Webster of Florida
,
Mr. Bilirakis
,
Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia
,
Mr. Posey
,
Mr. Biggs
,
Mr. Hice of Georgia
,
Mr. Westerman
,
Mr. Moore of Alabama
,
Mr. Mast
,
Mr. Cloud
,
Mr. Lamborn
,
Mr. Guest
,
Mr. Johnson of Louisiana
, and
Mrs. Hartzler
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Denouncing domestic terrorist violence against religious organizations and domestic terrorist violence against groups and organizations providing pregnancy support for expectant mothers, and for other purposes.
Whereas, on May 2, 2022, a Supreme Court draft decision regarding abortion was leaked;
Whereas, on May 3, 2022, the Sacred Heart of Mary was vandalized in Boulder, Colorado;
Whereas, on May 3, 2022, the CareNet Pregnancy Center was vandalized in Frederick, Maryland;
Whereas, on May 3, 2022, the Trotter House pregnancy help center was vandalized in Austin, Texas;
Whereas, on May 7, 2022, the Loreto House Pregnancy Resource Center was vandalized in Denton, Texas;
Whereas, on May 8, 2022, the Wisconsin Family Action office was set on fire in Madison, Wisconsin;
Whereas, on May 8, 2022, the Oregon Right to Life office was set on fire in Keizer, Oregon;
Whereas, on May 8, 2022, First Care Women’s Health was vandalized in Manassas, Virginia;
Whereas, on May 10, 2022, the Concerned Women for America’s office was vandalized in Alexandria, Virginia;
Whereas, on May 14, 2022, the Alpha Pregnancy Center was vandalized in Reisterstown, Maryland;
Whereas, on May 22, 2022, Calvary Chapel was vandalized in Olympia, Washington;
Whereas, on May 22, 2022, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was vandalized in Olympia, Washington;
Whereas, on May 22, 2022, Harbor Church was vandalized in Olympia, Washington;
Whereas, on May 22, 2022, St. Michael Catholic Church was vandalized in Olympia, Washington;
Whereas, on May 25, 2022, the Next Step Pregnancy Center was vandalized in Lynnwood, Washington;
Whereas, on June 2, 2022, Agape Pregnancy Resource Center was vandalized in Des Moines, Iowa;
Whereas, on June 3, 2022, the Capitol Hill Pregnancy Center was vandalized in Washington, DC;
Whereas, on June 6, 2022, Mountain Area Pregnancy Services was vandalized in Asheville, North Carolina;
Whereas, on June 7, 2022, the CompassCare Pregnancy Services facility was set on fire in Buffalo, New York;
Whereas, on June 8, 2022, there was an attempted assassination of Supreme Court Associate Justice Brett Kavanaugh;
Whereas, on June 10, 2022, the Gresham Pregnancy Resource Center was set on fire in Gresham, Oregon;
Whereas political commentators conflate protecting the lives of the unborn and support for organized religious groups with an opposition to women’s rights;
Whereas the would-be assassin of Supreme Court Associate Justice Brett Kavanaugh cited the leaked Supreme Court draft decision as a motivating factor in his decision to attempt murder; and
Whereas the Federal Bureau of Investigation defines domestic terrorism as
violent, criminal acts committed by individuals and/or groups to further ideological goals stemming from domestic influences, such as those of a political, religious, social, racial, or environmental nature
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
denounces domestic terrorist violence against religious organizations;
(2)
denounces domestic terrorist violence against groups and organizations providing pregnancy support for expectant mothers;
(3)
encourages the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation to appropriately investigate and prosecute domestic terrorists targeting religious organizations and pregnancy support groups; and
(4)
encourages the National Security Council to update the June 2021
National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism
with provisions related to preventing domestic terrorism operations against religious organizations and pregnancy support groups.
