117 HRES 1313 IH: Recognizing the 10-year anniversary of the tragic attack that took place at the Oak Creek Sikh Gurdwara on August 5, 2012, and honoring the memory of those who died in the attack.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-08-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1313
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 2, 2022
Mr. Steil
(for himself,
Mr. Grothman
,
Mr. Gallagher
,
Ms. Moore of Wisconsin
,
Mr. Tiffany
,
Mr. Fitzgerald
,
Mr. Pocan
, and
Mr. Kind
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the 10-year anniversary of the tragic attack that took place at the Oak Creek Sikh Gurdwara on August 5, 2012, and honoring the memory of those who died in the attack.
Whereas the freedom of religion is protected in the Constitution, and no religious institution should be subject to violence, hate, intolerance, or religious and racial discrimination;
Whereas, on Sunday, August 5, 2012, a shooting took place killing 7 worshipers at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin, a gurdwara, in Oak Creek, Wisconsin;
Whereas the attack occurred as members of the congregation prepared a free community meal served to all congregants arriving for Sunday services;
Whereas several worshipers were injured including a responding officer, Lieutenant Brian Murphy, who was shot 15 times at close range;
Whereas Lieutenant Brian Murphy and all the first responders to the Oak Creek Gurdwara demonstrated great courage in their quick response to the shooting, saving countless lives;
Whereas the Oak Creek shooting was a senseless act of violence and tragedy that should never befall any house of worship;
Whereas the Sikh community responded to the shooting in Oak Creek with compassion and stayed true to the Sikh principle of chardi kala, which roughly translates to
relentless optimism
;
Whereas 10 years later, the effects of this shooting are still being felt and will be for years to come; and
Whereas the Oak Creek community will continue to overcome the tragedy and become stronger than before: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns in the strongest possible terms the horrific attack that occurred at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin on August 5, 2012;
(2)
honors the memory of Paramjit Kaur, Suveg Singh Khattra, Satwant Singh Kaleka, Ranjit Singh, Sita Singh, Prakash Singh, and Baba Punjab Singh who died in the attack;
(3)
offers its heartfelt condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones of those who died in the attack;
(4)
recognizes the Sikh community for demonstrating unwavering courage, strength, and resilience in response;
(5)
applauds the bravery of Lieutenant Brian Murphy and other first responders who prevented the gunman from potentially taking more lives and quickly treated those who were wounded; and
(6)
condemns intolerance, including religious and racial discrimination, and calls for unwavering resolve to prevent and seek justice for acts of hate and terror.
