117 HRES 374 IH: Condemning the Texas Democratic Party for refusing to denounce racism.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-05-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 374
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 7, 2021
Mr. Fallon
(for himself,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Williams of Texas
, and
Mr. Burgess
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning the Texas Democratic Party for refusing to denounce racism.
Whereas racism is wholly antithetical to the principles of the United States and should not be harbored or defended by any political party, entity, or leader in the United States of America;
Whereas the Texas Democratic Party’s platform claims the party believes in
freedom … from discrimination based on race, ethnicity, national origin, disability, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, or any other improper grounds
;
Whereas the Chairman for the Lamar County Democratic Party of Texas, Gary O’Connor, posted a defamatory and racist remark against Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina on Facebook, in which he referred to the Senator from South Carolina as an
oreo
;
Whereas the term
oreo
is a well-documented ethnic slur used against people of color;
Whereas after multiple opportunities and repeated calls to censure or ask O’Connor to resign, the Democratic Party of Texas has refused to discipline O’Connor or revoke his chairmanship; and
Whereas the Democratic Party of Texas has refused to condemn or respond to the racist remark despite numerous opportunities and repeated calls to do so: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
condemns racism in any form;
(2)
condemns the racist remarks made by Lamar County Democratic Chairman Gary O’Connor against Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina; and
(3)
condemns the Texas Democratic Party’s refusal to condemn the racist remark made by its Lamar County Chair.
