78 HRES 1310 IH: Acknowledging and commemorating the women in the Army who served in the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps and the Women’s Army Corp during World War II.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-08-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1310
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 2, 2022
Mr. DesJarlais
(for himself and
Mrs. Luria
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Acknowledging and commemorating the women in the Army who served in the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps and the Women’s Army Corp during World War II.
Whereas Congresswoman Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts introduced a bill, H.R. 6293 (77th Congress), to create the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps (referred to in this preamble as the
WAAC
) to expand the types of jobs women could hold in the Army to address manpower shortages;
Whereas President Franklin D. Roosevelt established the WAAC by signing the Act entitled
An Act to establish a Women's Army Auxiliary Corps for service with the Army of the United States
, approved May 14, 1942 (commonly known as the
W.A.A.C. (Women's Army Auxiliary Corps) Act
) (
Public Law 77–554
; 56 Stat. 278), into law;
Whereas while 35,000 women had served in the enlisted ranks of the Army primarily in nursing positions during World War I, women had little formal means to serve in non-medical roles prior to the creation of the WAAC;
Whereas despite widely held stigmas associated with women in the military and numerous false allegations of impropriety among members of the WAAC, women applied to serve in such high numbers that enrollment ceilings were reached within the first year;
Whereas under the leadership of Colonel Oveta Culp Hobby, service in the WAAC quickly exceeded the 25,000 women initially expected;
Whereas Secretary of War Henry Stimson had to raise the limit on WAAC recruitment to 150,000 women because of high levels of enrollment;
Whereas the WAAC worked across the country, from Washington to Tennessee and from New Mexico to South Carolina, as well as overseas;
Whereas members of the WAAC served in numerous capacities, including as switchboard operators, mechanics, bakers, drivers, cryptographers, lab technicians, and nurses;
Whereas members of the WAAC, despite the quality and value of their contributions to the war effort, were not given benefits or pay equal to those of their male counterparts, and were not recognized as full members of the Army;
Whereas President Roosevelt signed the Act entitled
An Act to establish a Women's Army Corps for service in the Army of the United States
, approved July 1, 1943 (commonly known as the
W.A.C. (Women's Army Corps) Act
) (
Public Law 78–110
; 57 Stat. 371), into law, which converted the WAAC into the Women’s Army Corp (referred to in this preamble as the
WAC
), gave the women official military status and the same ranks and privileges of their male counterparts, and allowed the women to serve overseas;
Whereas during World War II, members of the WAC served overseas as drivers, clerks, nurses, and mechanics, enabling the release of more than 7 divisions of men to serve in combat roles;
Whereas towards the end of World War II, General Douglas MacArthur stated that the members of the WAC were
[his] best soldiers
, noting their dedication to hard work and discipline;
Whereas General and future President Dwight D. Eisenhower said that the WAC’s
contributions in efficiency, skill, spirit, and determination are immeasurable
;
Whereas the WAC served as an important precursor to the complete gender integration of the military in 1978; and
Whereas the brave women who served in the WAAC and the WAC are owed a great debt of gratitude for their service to the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
honors the women who served the United States in the Women’s Auxiliary Army Corp (referred to in this resolution as the
WAAC
) and the Women’s Army Corp (referred to in this resolution as the
WAC
) during World War II;
(2)
commends the women of the WAAC and the WAC who, through their dedication to the United States and perseverance through significant social pressure, served in critical military positions to aid the war effort, freeing male soldiers for combat duty; and
(3)
recognizes that the WAAC and the WAC overcame stereotypes to open up more opportunities for women and made significant contributions to the victory of the United States and the allies in World War II.
