117 HRES 636 IH: Directing the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives to carry out a pilot program under which the leadership of the House shall utilize body-worn cameras and ensure that the cameras are activated while carrying out official leadership business.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-09-14
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 636
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 14, 2021
Mr. Gosar
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Directing the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives to carry out a pilot program under which the leadership of the House shall utilize body-worn cameras and ensure that the cameras are activated while carrying out official leadership business.
1.
Utilization of body-worn cameras by House leadership
(a)
Pilot program
The Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives shall carry out a pilot program under which—
(1)
each Member who is the head of a House leadership office shall utilize a body-worn camera and ensure that the camera is activated while the Member is carrying out the official business of such office; and
(2)
the footage recorded by the camera is made available online to the public.
(b)
Regulations
The Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out the pilot program under this section.
(c)
Period of program
The pilot program under this section shall be in effect during the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress.
(d)
House leadership office defined
In this resolution, the term
House leadership office
means, with respect to a session of Congress, any office for which the appropriation for salaries and expenses of the office for the fiscal year during which any portion of the session occurs is provided under the heading
House Leadership Offices
in the Act making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year.
