117 HRES 934 IH: Supporting reopening the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings to the American people.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-02-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 934
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 18, 2022
Mr. Norman
(for himself,
Mr. Brooks
,
Mr. Gibbs
,
Mr. Fleischmann
,
Mr. Perry
,
Ms. Mace
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
,
Mr. Timmons
,
Mr. Issa
,
Mr. Biggs
,
Mr. Johnson of South Dakota
,
Mr. Clyde
, and
Mr. Huizenga
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Supporting reopening the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings to the American people.
Whereas the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings closed to public visitation on March 12, 2020, at the very outset of the pandemic;
Whereas, since March of 2020, the American people have learned how to safely gather and enter public places despite the existence of COVID–19 and, due to Operation Warp Speed, have had the opportunity to be vaccinated against COVID–19 for more than a year;
Whereas, despite the existence of COVID–19, tens of thousands of people routinely gather across the country for sporting, entertainment, worship, and other events;
Whereas, despite the existence of COVID–19, stores, restaurants, and other public places have been successfully welcoming the public since the pandemic began in 2020;
Whereas, despite the existence of COVID–19, the American people, including Members of Congress, routinely use crowded public transportation vehicles, including airplanes and trains;
Whereas, despite the existence of COVID–19, most Americans have long since resumed working around co-workers, customers, and others;
Whereas it is illogical and unacceptable that, despite the rest of the United States being open, the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings, buildings that belong to the American people, remain largely closed to public visitation; and
Whereas it is time to once again welcome the public participation in the legislative process and the public visitation of our historic buildings that have always been hallmarks of American democracy: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the importance of reopening the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings to the American people to facilitate public participation in the legislative process and public visitation of these historic buildings; and
(2)
supports returning to the public visitation policies for House Office Buildings and the portions of the United States Capitol and Capitol complex within House jurisdiction that were in place before the COVID–19 pandemic.
