117 HRES 1293 IH: Recognizing and honoring Elisjsha Dicken for his demonstration of courage, self-sacrifice, and fidelity to his fellow Americans.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1293
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 28, 2022
Mrs. Boebert
(for herself,
Mr. Banks
,
Mr. Carey
,
Mr. Clyde
,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Gohmert
,
Mr. Hice of Georgia
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Mullin
,
Mr. Norman
,
Mr. Steube
,
Mr. Van Drew
, and
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform
RESOLUTION
Recognizing and honoring Elisjsha Dicken for his demonstration of courage, self-sacrifice, and fidelity to his fellow Americans.
Whereas Elisjsha Dicken of Seymour, Indiana, demonstrated uncommon courage in defending his fellow citizens against an armed shooter at a mall in Greenwood, Indiana, on July 17, 2022;
Whereas a recent decision by the State of Indiana to repeal a requirement mandating that citizens obtain a permit before carrying a handgun in public enabled Mr. Dicken to carry his 9mm Glock lawfully;
Whereas restrictions on gun ownership and the imposition of failed gun control policies, to include gun-free zones, make Americans less safe;
Whereas a 2013 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study found that defensive gun uses range from about 500,000 to more than 3,000,000 on an annual basis;
Whereas only 15 seconds elapsed between the beginning of the Greenwood Park Mall shooting and Mr. Dicken’s intervention that eliminated the shooter, saving countless lives;
Whereas Elisjsha Dicken is an American hero who deserves the thanks of a Nation; and
Whereas Mr. Dicken was described by Greenwood Police Chief James Ison as
responsible
,
very proficient
, and
very tactically sound
, and Ison further remarked that Mr. Dicken’s actions
were nothing short of heroic
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives recognizes and honors Elisjsha Dicken for his demonstration of courage, self-sacrifice, and fidelity to his fellow Americans.
