117 HRES 1091 IH: Calling for the immediate resignation of Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-05-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1091
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 6, 2022
Mrs. Hartzler
(for herself,
Mrs. McClain
,
Ms. Herrell
,
Mr. Clyde
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Davidson
,
Mr. Gibbs
,
Mr. Rose
,
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
,
Mr. Biggs
, and
Mr. Duncan
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security
RESOLUTION
Calling for the immediate resignation of Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security.
Whereas the Biden administration willfully neglected the crisis at the United States southern border and remains indifferent to the security of Americans;
Whereas the Biden administration’s open-border policies are fueling drug-related deaths across the United States, and between October 2020 and September 2021, nearly 80,000 Americans died of an opioid drug-related overdose;
Whereas synthetic opioids such as fentanyl are primarily smuggled through our southwest land border and ports of entry by cartels and dangerous criminals;
Whereas Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas testified there were 389,155 migrants who were not apprehended and got past border agents during fiscal year 2021, further jeopardizing our national security;
Whereas the Biden administration’s refusal to enforce Federal laws, including deporting criminals and maintaining order at the border, has put the United States on the verge of a national security crisis;
Whereas U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) apprehended at least 23 people coming across the southern border whose names are on the terror watch list;
Whereas Biden administration officials refused to confirm whether suspected terrorists, and individuals from adversarial nations such as Russia and China, have been released into our communities;
Whereas the Biden administration’s harmful rhetoric encourages unaccompanied minors to travel to the United States, driving families to place their children in the hands of smugglers and human traffickers;
Whereas the Biden administration allows criminal organizations to use the United States-Mexico border as a pipeline to bring people to the United States and subject them to human rights abuses;
Whereas the Biden administration claims they have
effectively managed
the historic border crisis despite privately telling Border Patrol agents in August that the situation was
unsustainable
;
Whereas the Biden administration continually blames the prior administration for the issues being faced at the border today despite dismantling successful policies;
Whereas the Biden administration plans to rescind title 42, United States Code, which enables the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to immediately expel individuals who attempt to cross our southern border illegally;
Whereas the Department of Homeland Security estimates that up to 18,000 migrants could be apprehended at the border each day if title 42 is rescinded;
Whereas the Biden administration’s expedited and repeated rejection of the successful Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) (the
Remain in Mexico
policy) shows a willingness to embrace an open-borders agenda that undermines United States safety;
Whereas the Biden administration has refused to administer the Remain in Mexico program in good faith as required by a Federal court order;
Whereas the Biden administration has rescinded safe third country agreements with Central American partners that gave asylum-seekers the chance to apply for asylum in the first safe country which they entered;
Whereas the Biden administration has wasted taxpayer dollars by halting construction of physical barriers along the southern border authorized and appropriated by law;
Whereas more illegal aliens have crossed the border in 15 months under the Biden administration than in 4 years under the previous administration;
Whereas the Biden administration has discussed plans to reassign Border Patrol agents and Federal employees, including individuals from the Department of Veterans Affairs, from their official duties to take care of the exploding number of unaccompanied minors in Federal custody, potenially taking resources away both from those securing the border and our Nation’s heroes;
Whereas the Biden administration has willfully ignored laws passed by Congress requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to take all actions
necessary and appropriate to achieve and maintain operational control over the entire international land and maritime borders of the United States
as required by
Public Law 109–367
, the Secure Fence Act of 2006;
Whereas the Department of Homeland Security’s proposed
Disinformation Governance Board
creates serious ethical concerns that could suppress free speech while further undermining the United States people’s confidence in the Department; and
Whereas the actions laid out above constitute a severe dereliction of duty and a constitutional failure to fulfill the oaths of office taken by Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas immediately resign from office.
