117 HRES 1250 IH: Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the impact of illegal immigration on Federal or Tribal lands.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1250
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 22, 2022
Mr. Moore of Utah
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the impact of illegal immigration on Federal or Tribal lands.
That the Secretary of Homeland Security is directed to transmit, to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, memorandum, correspondence, and other communication, or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to impact of illegal immigration on Federal or Tribal lands, including the following:
(1)
All documents and communications related to the current level of environmental damage to Federal protected and Tribal lands along the southern border, including—
(A)
any reference to an accumulation of garbage;
(B)
any reference to habitat destruction;
(C)
any reference to wildlife deaths; and
(D)
any reference to the creation of illegal trails.
(2)
All documents and communications referring or relating to coordinating garbage removal efforts along the southern border.
(3)
All documents and communications referring to the transport of illicit drugs across Federal or Tribal lands, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to Tribal concerns about drug trafficking;
(B)
any reference to Department of Homeland Security employees’ concerns about drug trafficking on Federal lands; and
(C)
any reference to reports of drug cartels crossing Federal or Tribal lands.
(4)
Any meeting or communication that occurred between Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, or his representative, with a Tribal representative referring or relating to drug cartel activity on Tribal lands.
(5)
Any meeting or communication that occurred between Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and Secretary Debra Haaland, or their representatives, referring or relating to drug cartel activity on Federal or Tribal lands.
