117 HRES 748 IH: Honoring the life and the legacy of General Colin L. Powell.
U.S. House of Representatives
2021-10-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 748
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 27, 2021
Mr. Donalds
(for himself,
Mr. Garamendi
,
Mr. Owens
,
Mr. C. Scott Franklin of Florida
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mrs. Murphy of Florida
,
Mr. Gohmert
,
Mr. Moore of Utah
,
Mr. Smith of Washington
,
Mrs. Bice of Oklahoma
,
Mr. Gimenez
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
,
Mr. Chabot
, and
Mrs. Kim of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Honoring the life and the legacy of General Colin L. Powell.
Whereas General Colin L. Powell was born on April 5, 1937, in New York City, New York, the only child of his Jamaican-born parents, Luther and Maud Powell;
Whereas General Powell received his Bachelor of Science from City College of New York and his Master of Business Administration from George Washington University;
Whereas, upon graduation and while involved in basic military training at Fort Benning, General Powell was oftentimes refused service in bars and restaurants because of the color of his skin;
Whereas General Powell served in the Armed Forces for 35 years;
Whereas General Powell served as the 16th United States National Security Advisor from 1987 to 1989 and was the first African American to serve in that position;
Whereas General Powell served as the Commander of the United States Army Forces Command in 1989;
Whereas, from 1989 to 1993, General Powell served as the 12th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, being the first Afro-Caribbean American and the youngest individual to serve as the highest ranking military position in the Department of Defense;
Whereas, while serving as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Powell oversaw the Invasion of Panama in 1989 as well as Operation Desert Storm in 1991;
Whereas General Powell served as the 65th Secretary of State under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2005 and was the first Afro-Caribbean American to serve in that position;
Whereas General Powell acquired many civilian awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom (which he was awarded twice), the Congressional Gold Medal, the Presidential Citizens Medal, the Secretary of State Distinguished Service Medal, and the Secretary of Energy Distinguished Service Medal;
Whereas, over the course of his life, General Powell wrote an autobiography called
My American Journey
and a book titled
It Worked for Me, Lessons in Life and Leadership
; and
Whereas, on October 18, 2021, at the age of 84 years old, General Powell passed away from complications of COVID–19 at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, devastating his family and the people of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
tenders its deep sympathy to the members of the family of the late General Colin L. Powell;
(2)
honors the life and legacy of General Colin L. Powell;
(3)
commends General Colin L. Powell for his life accomplishments within the United States Government and the Armed Forces; and
(4)
that when the House adjourns today, it adjourns as a further mark of respect to the memory of the late General Colin L. Powell.
