117 HRES 889 IH: Supporting the contributions of Catholic schools.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-01-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 889
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 28, 2022
Mr. LaHood
(for himself,
Mr. Neal
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Mr. Graves of Louisiana
,
Mr. Latta
,
Mr. Garbarino
,
Mr. Lynch
,
Mr. Langevin
,
Mr. Costa
,
Ms. Roybal-Allard
,
Mr. Mooney
,
Mr. Diaz-Balart
,
Mrs. Walorski
,
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois
,
Mr. Smith of New Jersey
,
Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Ryan
,
Mr. Gallagher
,
Mr. Joyce of Ohio
, and
Mr. Suozzi
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
RESOLUTION
Supporting the contributions of Catholic schools.
Whereas Catholic schools in the United States are internationally acclaimed for their academic excellence and provide students with more than an exceptional scholastic education;
Whereas while about 70 Catholic schools were forced to close or merge at the end of the 2021 school year, 20 Catholic schools have now opened;
Whereas Catholic schools instill a broad, values-added education emphasizing the lifelong development of moral, intellectual, physical, and social values in young people in the United States;
Whereas Catholic schools serve the Nation by providing a diverse student population from all regions of the country and all socioeconomic backgrounds with a strong academic and moral foundation, including 21.4 percent of students from racial minority backgrounds, 18.6 percent from Hispanic heritage, and 20.1 percent from non-Catholic families;
Whereas Catholic schools are an affordable option for parents, particularly in underserved urban areas;
Whereas Catholic schools produce students strongly dedicated to their faith, values, families, and communities by providing an intellectually stimulating environment rich in spiritual, character, and moral development;
Whereas Catholic schools are committed to community service, producing graduates who hold
helping others
among their core values;
Whereas the total Catholic school student enrollment for the 2021–2022 academic year was over 1,680,000, and the average student-teacher ratio was 11.5 to 1;
Whereas the Catholic high school graduation rate is 98.0 percent, with 85.2 percent of graduates attending a 4-year college;
Whereas the week of January 30, 2022, to February 5, 2022, has been designated as
National Catholic Schools Week
by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops;
Whereas National Catholic Schools Week was first established in 1974 and has been celebrated annually for the past 48 years; and
Whereas the theme for National Catholic Schools Week 2022 is
Catholic Schools: Faith. Excellence. Service.
and reflects Catholic schools’ purpose to form students to be good citizens of the world, love God and neighbor, and enrich society with the leaven of the gospel and by example of faith: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals of National Catholic Schools Week, an event cosponsored by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and established to recognize the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States;
(2)
applauds the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops on their selection of a theme that all can celebrate; and
(3)
supports the dedication of Catholic schools, students, parents, and teachers across the United States toward academic excellence, and supports the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the Nation.
