117 HRES 1326 IH: Of inquiry requesting the President, and directing the Secretary of Energy, to transmit to the House of Representatives certain information relating to plans to protect baseload bulk power system generation and transmission to maintain bulk power system reliability.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-08-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1326
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 26, 2022
Mr. Pence
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President, and directing the Secretary of Energy, to transmit to the House of Representatives certain information relating to plans to protect baseload bulk power system generation and transmission to maintain bulk power system reliability.
That the President is requested, and the Secretary of Energy is directed, to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of adoption of this resolution, copies of all documents, memoranda, and advisory legal opinions, including notes from meetings, memos, and telephone and electronic mail records, to the extent that any such one or more items are within the possession of the President or the Secretary, respectively, and refer or relate to the following:
(1)
How the Secretary of Energy plans to respond to the insufficient baseload electricity generation and transmission described by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation in the document titled
2022 Summer Reliability Assessment
(May, 2022) to ensure the bulk power system is able to provide reliable, affordable, and dispatchable baseload electricity generation and transmission.
(2)
Correspondence between the Secretary of Energy and bulk power system operators, the Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency relating to how the generation and transmission of electricity in the bulk power system, and the reliability of the bulk power system, is expected to be affected by—
(A)
premature retirements or temporary closures of baseload electric generating units as a result of enforcement actions with respect to the requirements of section 257.103(f) of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations;
(B)
any approved demonstrations for extensions submitted under section 257.103(f) of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to alternative closure requirements for coal combustion residuals landfills and surface impoundments); and
(C)
finalization of the proposed rule published by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency on April 6, 2022, titled
Federal Implementation Plan Addressing Regional Ozone Transport for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard
(87 Fed. Reg. 20036).
