117 HRES 961 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings be open and accessible to the public.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-03-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 961
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 2, 2022
Mr. Steil
(for himself,
Mr. McCarthy
,
Mr. Scalise
,
Ms. Stefanik
,
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois
, and
Mr. Loudermilk
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on House Administration
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings be open and accessible to the public.
Whereas the United States Capitol has been closed to the public since March 12, 2020;
Whereas the Capitol is a symbol of democracy that millions of people visit each year;
Whereas the Government of the United States derives its power from the consent of the governed, and the American people have a constitutional right to be heard;
Whereas the right of people to petition their Government is severely hindered by the closure of the Capitol and the people’s House;
Whereas the Capitol had only been closed briefly 3 times since the beginning of the 20th century: during the Spanish flu pandemic, after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., and after the September 11 and anthrax attacks in 2001;
Whereas this is the longest closure of the Capitol in history, with no end in sight;
Whereas, while the public is still unable to use the Capitol Visitor Center, the vast majority of State capitols across the country are open to the public;
Whereas schools are operating in person safely around the country; and
Whereas sporting events are being widely attended safely around the country: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives should—
(1)
expeditiously reopen the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings to the public;
(2)
remove any restrictions to the free and open access of the public to the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings, such as visitor logs;
(3)
express to the United States Capitol Police that reopening the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings to the American people should be prioritized; and
(4)
take necessary measures to ensure that the House wing of the United States Capitol and House Office Buildings remain open and safe for the public.
