117 HRES 1039 IH: Providing for the consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to “Requirement for Persons To Wear Masks While on Conveyances and at Transportation Hubs”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-04-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1039
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 6, 2022
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Providing for the consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to
Requirement for Persons To Wear Masks While on Conveyances and at Transportation Hubs
.
That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to
Requirement for Persons To Wear Masks While on Conveyances and at Transportation Hubs
. All points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
2.
Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the consideration of H.J. Res. 72.
