117 HRES 1248 IH: Of inquiry directing the Secretary of the Interior to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the compliance with the obligations of the Mineral Leasing Act.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1248
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 22, 2022
Ms. Herrell
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of the Interior to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the compliance with the obligations of the Mineral Leasing Act.
That the Secretary of the Interior is directed to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, memorandum, correspondence, and other communication or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the compliance with the obligations of the Mineral Leasing Act, including the following:
(1)
All documents and communications relating to the Mineral Leasing Act’s requirement to hold quarterly lease sales in each eligible State, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to cancelling lease sales in eligible sales;
(B)
any reference to minimizing the acreage included in lease sales in eligible lease sales; and
(C)
any reference to the consequences of failing to hold mandated lease sales.
(2)
All documents and communications relating to the Mineral Leasing Act’s requirement to process Applications for Permit to Drill within 30 days of receipt at the Bureau of Land Management, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to delays in the approval process;
(B)
any reference to the impact of staffing levels on the ability to approve Applications for Permit to Drill; and
(C)
any reference to instructions to intentionally slow the approval process.
(3)
All documents and communications relating to the economic implications of failing to hold quarterly lease sales in eligible States or approve Applications for Permit to Drill within 30 days, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to decreasing domestic oil or natural gas production;
(B)
any reference to increasing dependence on foreign sources of oil or natural gas;
(C)
any reference to implications of funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund; and
(D)
any reference to implications of funding for State and local governments, including support for schools and law enforcement.
