117 HRES 872 IH: Congratulating the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team for winning the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-01-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 872
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 13, 2022
Mrs. Greene of Georgia
(for herself,
Mr. Loudermilk
,
Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia
,
Mr. Carter of Georgia
,
Mr. Allen
,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Mr. Hice of Georgia
,
Mr. Ferguson
,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Mr. Clyde
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Ms. Bourdeaux
,
Mrs. McBath
, and
Mr. David Scott of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and Labor
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team for winning the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship.
Whereas the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team enjoyed a season record of 14–1 and won the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship, defeating the University of Alabama Crimson Tide by a score of 33 to 18 at the Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana, on January 10, 2022;
Whereas this victory marks the third College Football National Championship in University of Georgia history and first championship in over 40 years;
Whereas the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship was the 58th postseason football bowl appearance, the 34th football bowl victory for the University of Georgia, and second College Football Playoff Appearance;
Whereas the 2021–2022 Bulldogs football team allowed an average of 6.9 points per game throughout the regular season, and finished the regular season undefeated with a record of 12–0 (8–0);
Whereas the University of Georgia head football coach, Kirby Smart, won his first National Championship in his sixth year as the Bulldogs Head Coach and has led the Bulldogs to one Southeastern Conference Championship and two College Football Playoff appearances;
Whereas this victory extends the record of Coach Smart to 66 wins and 15 losses during his tenure as the Head Football Coach of the University of Georgia; and
Whereas Go Dawgs!: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the University of Georgia Bulldogs for an exemplary season and winning the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship game;
(2)
recognizes the achievements of all players, coaches, and staff who contributed to the championship season; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives prepare an official copy of this resolution for presentation to—
(A)
the President of the University of Georgia, Jere Morehead;
(B)
the Athletic Director of the University of Georgia, Josh Brooks; and
(C)
the Head Coach of the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team, Kirby Smart.
