113 SJ 5 IS: Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relative to authorizing regulation of contributions to candidates for State public office and Federal office by corporations, entities organized and operated for profit, and labor organizations, and expenditures by such entities and labor organizations in support of, or opposition to such candidates.
U.S. Senate
2013-01-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IIA
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. J. RES. 5
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 28, 2013
Mr. Baucus
(for himself
and
Mr. Tester
) introduced the following
joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on the
Judiciary
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United
States relative to authorizing regulation of contributions to candidates for
State public office and Federal office by corporations, entities organized and
operated for profit, and labor organizations, and expenditures by such entities
and labor organizations in support of, or opposition to such candidates.
That the following article is
proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall
be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified
by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
after the date of its submission by the Congress:
 —
1.
Congress shall have the power
to regulate the contribution of funds by corporations, entities organized and
operated for profit, and labor organizations to a candidate for election to, or
for nomination for election to, a Federal office, and the power to regulate the
expenditure of funds by corporations, entities organized and operated for
profit, and labor organizations made in support of, or opposition to, such
candidates.
2.
A State shall have the power to
regulate the contribution of funds by corporations, entities organized and
operated for profit, and labor organizations to a candidate for election to, or
for nomination for election to, public office in the State, and the power to
regulate the expenditure of funds by corporations, entities organized and
operated for profit, and labor organizations made in support of, or opposition
to, such candidates.
3.
Nothing contained in this
Amendment shall be construed to allow Congress or a State to make any law
abridging the freedom of the
press.
.
