2d Session
H. RES. 1277
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 26, 2022
Mr. Luetkemeyer
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Small Business
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to actions by the Small Business Administration to address fraud related to certain COVID–19 programs of the Administration.
That the Administrator of the Small Business Administration is directed to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, memorandum, correspondence, and other communication or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the actions taken by the Small Business Administration relating to the announcement by the Administrator on April 1, 2022, titled
Administrator Guzman Announces Expanded Efforts to Aggressively Crack Down on Bad Actors and Prevent Fraud in Programs
(Release Number 22–31), including the following:
(1)
The names and titles of each individual currently on the Enterprise Risk Management Board of the Administration.
(2)
The names and titles of each individual currently on the Fraud Risk Management Board of the Administration.
(3)
The names and titles of each individual who served on the Compliance, Oversight, and Reporting Team board of the Administration.
(4)
The names and titles of each individual who served on the Fraud Risk Management Council of the Administration.
(5)
All documents and communications relating to the amount of funds from loans made under section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(b)
) in response to COVID–19, grants under section 1110(e) of the CARES Act (
15 U.S.C. 9009(e)
), and grants under section 331 of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (
15 U.S.C. 9009b
) that the Administration has recovered from individuals and entities that fraudulently obtained such loans and grants.
