2d Session
H. RES. 1135
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 19, 2022
Mr. Joyce of Ohio
(for himself and
Mr. Donalds
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry requesting the President and directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to transmit, respectively, certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the Department of Homeland Security's Disinformation Governance Board.
That the President is requested, and the Secretary of Homeland Security is directed, to transmit, respectively, to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of all documents, memoranda, advisory legal opinions, notes from meetings, audio recordings, records (including telephone and electronic mail records), correspondence, and other communications, or any portion of any such communications, to the extent that any such one or more items are within the possession of the President or the Secretary, respectively, and refer to the following:
(1)
All information relating to the inception, design, formation, and implementation of the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(2)
All information pertaining to meetings held between the Executive Office of the President and the Department of Homeland Security relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(3)
All information pertaining to meetings and conversations, both formal and informal, held between the Biden Administration and any individual who has served in, or any organization that has represented or is representing, a previous Presidential Administration relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(4)
All information pertaining to meetings held between the Executive Office of the President and the Department of Justice relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(5)
All information pertaining to meetings held between the Biden Administration and private entities, third party organizations, and nongovernmental organizations relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(6)
All information pertaining to meetings held between the Biden Administration and representatives of social media companies relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(7)
All information sought or obtained by the Biden Administration relating to the planned activities, authority, and scope of the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(8)
All legal opinions issued or received by the Biden Administration concerning the viability or legality of the creation and implementation of the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(9)
All information pertaining to the consideration and eventual selection of Nina Jankowicz to lead the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(10)
All information relating to the consideration, screening, and interview process of all individuals who were under consideration to lead the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board.
(11)
All information relating to what, if any, activities the Department of Homeland Security has engaged in relating to the suppression of disinformation prior to the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board being announced.
(12)
All information relating to the activities of and actions taken by the Department of Homeland Security’s Disinformation Governance Board, and by Nina Jankowicz on behalf of the Disinformation Governance Board, prior to the Board being announced by Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas on April 27, 2022.
(13)
All information relating to the Department of Homeland Security’s determination to pause implementation of the Disinformation Governance Board, including information relating to the rationale for such determination, how long such pause will last, and if the Disinformation Governance Board’s authority and responsibilities are to be transferred to another agency within or outside of the Department.
