2d Session
H. RES. 1362
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 19, 2022
Mrs. Greene of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, for endangering, compromising, and undermining the energy security of the United States by selling oil from the United States' Strategic Petroleum Reserve to foreign nations.
That Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, is impeached for endangering, compromising, and undermining the energy security of the United States by selling oil from the United States' Strategic Petroleum Reserve to foreign nations, and that the following Articles of Impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of Impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Joseph Robinette Biden, President of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for endangering, compromising, and undermining the energy security of the United States by selling oil from the United States' Strategic Petroleum Reserve to foreign nations.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the President
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or High Crimes and Misdemeanors
.
In his conduct as President of the United States, in violation of his constitutional oath to faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States, and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States—Joseph Robinette Biden continues to materially endanger the energy security of the United States and empower foreign adversaries in their objective to subvert the United States as the dominant global economic and political power.
Article I
President Biden’s decision to liquidate the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) demonstrates his administration is more concerned with enriching other nations than protecting United States citizens at home, even when those nations do not need United States' oil to survive.
According to Reuters News on July 5, 2022,
more than 5 million barrels of oil that were part of a historic U.S. emergency reserves release…were exported to Europe and Asia last month, according to data and sources, even as U.S. gasoline and diesel prices hit record highs
.
Reuters further reported that
cargoes of SPR crude oil were also headed to the Netherlands and to a Reliance refinery in India, an industry source said. A third cargo headed to China, another source said…the latest exports follow three vessels that carried SPR crude oil to Europe in April helping replace Russian crude oil supplies
.
India and China do not need oil from the United States since both Asian nations import oil from Russia. In fact, Business Standard reported that India’s oil imports from Russia jumped
over 50 times since April [2022]
. Reuters relayed that China’s imports of Russian oil from May 2022 set a record, surpassing Saudi Arabia as the top oil exporter to China.
India spent $5,000,000,000 on Russian oil in the first part of 2022, a five-fold increase from their purchases of oil from 2021.
According to Bloomberg, China spent $19,000,000,000 on Russian oil, gas, and coal in the first part of 2022, double the amount they spent on the same resources over the same period in 2021.
While citizens of the United States are facing extreme price increases for food and fuel under Biden’s presidency, his administration is selling the United States’ emergency fuel supply to China and other nations.
Article II
President Biden’s decision to liquidate the SPR reveals his plan to endanger the security of the United States, both economically and politically, while empowering adversaries to do grave harm to us and our allies.
Congress authorized the creation of the SPR in 1975 under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
By December 1994, the SPR had been filled to 591,700,000 barrels.
In mid-November of 2001, President George W. Bush ordered the SPR filled to 700,000,000 barrels.
The SPR was filled to its then 727-million-barrel authorized storage capacity on December 27, 2009; the inventory of 726,600,000 barrels was the highest ever held in the SPR.
The SPR’s current authorized storage capacity is 714,000,000 barrels of crude oil.
When President Joe Biden entered office, the SPR contained 638,000,000 barrels of crude oil. In 2021, the United States consumed an average of 19,780,000 barrels of petroleum per day, a total of 7,220,000,000 barrels of petroleum.
In 2021, 134,830,000,000 gallons of finished motor gasoline was consumed in the United States, an average of about 369,000,000 gallons per day.
In 2021, diesel fuel consumption by the United States transportation sector was 46,820,000,000 gallons, an average of about 128,000,000 gallons per day.
President Biden announced on March 31, 2022, that his administration would begin releasing at least 1,000,000 barrels of oil from the SPR on a daily basis, with a target total of more than 180,000,000 barrels of oil.
The national average price of unleaded gasoline and diesel fuel in June 2022, was $5, an all-time high.
The SPR currently holds 427,200,000 barrels of crude oil as of September 16, 2022. This is after Reuters reported in August that the SPR
fell to the lowest level since 1984
.
No President in the history of the United States has ordered a liquidation of the SPR of this scale. Even in 1991, during the Gulf war, the United States liquidated only 17,000,000 barrels of crude oil from the SPR to provide further stability to the global crude oil market. Following Hurricane Katrina, the United States released some 20,000,000 barrels of crude oil to the United States domestic market following the destruction of major oil refineries in the gulf coast region.
In 2021, the Department of Energy sold crude oil from the SPR to a foreign government for the first time.
President Biden is emptying the SPR of medium-sour crude oil, which is a crucial type of oil that domestic refiners process into gasoline. The Department of Energy released 4,600,000 barrels of medium-sour crude oil in late July. This decision could cause oil prices to skyrocket in the long-term as refineries seek to re-acquire more easily processed crude.
President Biden’s decision to liquidate this enormous amount of crude oil from the SPR has put the United States in unprecedented danger by reducing its essential supply of natural resources in the event of a natural disaster, global supply chain crisis, or war.
President Biden’s decision to deplete the SPR is unnecessary, since the United States had already materially demonstrated that it was energy-independent and fully capable of producing sufficient amounts of crude oil domestically under the Trump administration.
These actions demonstrate a concerted effort to deprive the United States of its energy stability and security while providing other nations with essential goods and services.
President Biden’s decision to ban United States imports of Russian oil has provided Russia with more reasons to sell oil to India and China, increasing the economic ties between those nations and empowering the strength of the Russian ruble as the United States dollar declines.
Russia has amassed $13,000,000,000 in additional oil revenue from India and China in 2022, compared to the same period in 2021.
President Biden’s decision to send crude oil from the SPR to China is a blatantly strategic sabotage against the United States, a move which will only serve to assist China’s ascendancy to displace the United States as the global economic and military hegemon.
China is likely to use the oil received from the SPR to empower its military to invade Taiwan at a future date.
The White House Press Secretary stated in July 2022, that she was not aware of the reports outlining the transfer of SPR barrels to China, indisputably the United States’ major geopolitical adversary.
These actions demonstrate that the Biden administration has intentionally aided and abetted foreign powers rather than address the rising economic burdens faced by millions of citizens of the United States.
Article III
President Biden’s decision to liquidate the SPR plainly shows his disdain for the plight of citizens of the United States who are facing the worst inflationary crisis since June 1981.
Citizens of the United States are struggling to afford basic goods and services because of the rampant inflation caused by Democrat’s out-of-control spending and the Federal Reserve’s loose monetary policy.
The following increases in the average retail food and energy prices, according to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, since July of 2021, includes—
(1)
flour by 44.8-percent;
(2)
chicken by 31-percent;
(3)
rice by 18.8-percent;
(4)
milk by 14.6-percent; bread by 14-percent;
(5)
ground beef by 11.5-percent;
(6)
fuel oil for residential homes by 76.4-percent;
(7)
utility gas prices by 31.3-percent;
(8)
gasoline, per gallon, by 43.4-percent; and
(9)
diesel fuel, per gallon, by 69.6-percent.
President Biden canceled the continued construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline and plans to block all new drilling in the Atlantic and Pacific ocean regions within United States waters.
The Biden administration has canceled Federal land and offshore leasing permits, increased regulation and proposed taxes, depleted the strategic oil reserves, and turned to foreign oil production, doing everything in its power to hamper domestic oil production.
President Biden recently took a trip to Saudi Arabia where he continues to encourage members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to expand output rather than promoting energy independence domestically.
The United States energy sector has repeatedly reached out to President Biden to show him the potential of United States energy production sites, with no reply from the White House.
President Biden’s decision to ignore United States domestic energy producers is a clear sign of his apathy towards the very people he is sworn to protect.
Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the United States’ national and energy security if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law.
President Biden thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
