2d Session
H. RES. 1532
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 27, 2022
Mr. Gohmert
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Joseph R. Biden.
That Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, is impeached for Treason, and other high Crimes and Misdemeanors, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of Impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against President Joseph R. Biden for high crimes and misdemeanors.
It must be noted that as both Vice President and as President of the United States, Joseph R. Biden took the following Oath or Affirmation of Office: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of the President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.”
Article I
President Joseph R. Biden disastrously managed the withdrawal of U.S. military, from Afghanistan, and did intentionally and knowingly leave American citizens and thousands of our most devoted allies to be murdered, tortured, forced into horrendous and tragic circumstances though they had been assured the United States would not abandon them to be murdered by the Taliban, all of which has provided our enemies with legitimate propaganda that the United States Government cannot be trusted, doing virtually irreparable damage to our Nation’s effort to defeat enemies of our freedom, while President Biden, by his actions, did more to give credibility to the statements by the Chinese Communist Party officials and Russian diplomats that the United States of America could not be trusted as an ally, thereby adhering and giving Aid and Comfort to our enemies at the cost of American lives as well as the lives of those who previously assisted the United States in Afghanistan.
Article II
President Joseph R. Biden’s inhumane and disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan provided a gift of control over much of Afghanistan to the sworn enemy of the United States, the Taliban, which had previously been driven out of Afghanistan by our Afghan allies with the able assistance of American fighters, weapons, and air support by early 2002, but President Biden’s actions have now provided an enemy, sworn and dedicated to destroying the United States, to return to its former reign of terror across Afghanistan; such action constituting treason in assisting the enemy that inflicted the worst act of war and murder against Americans on our soil.
President Joseph R. Biden had been warned that his anticipated actions could create the kind of murder, chaos and damage to American citizens and American allies as is currently occurring in Afghanistan, yet he moved forward with action that gave aid and comfort to our murderous enemies at the expense of the well-being of the Nation he swore to protect, violating his sworn oath as set out above; additionally President Biden compounded his high crime and misdemeanors by making repeated statements to American citizens regarding his retreat from Afghanistan through the media that both he and our enemies knew to be lies regarding the betrayal of our Afghan allies and surrender to our sworn enemies.
Article III
While President Joseph R. Biden continued to assure the people of the United States that Americans and our allies were having no trouble getting to the airport in Afghanistan and that the Taliban was letting them through, people around the world could see at that very time he was lying and even officials within his own administration were reporting that President Biden’s statements were not true, all while Americans and our allies were being beaten, tortured and murdered as President Biden did nothing but misrepresent the facts, give aid and comfort to our enemies, and destroy our Nation’s reputation, all while knowing that in a security alert issued on August 18, 2021, the U.S. Embassy Kabul stated explicitly that
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CANNOT ENSURE SAFE PASSAGE TO THE HAMID KARZAI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
Article IV
Afghans who would otherwise qualify to leave Afghanistan are now similarly trapped and subject to violence and death due to President Joseph R. Biden’s intentional and knowing withdrawal from Afghanistan in such a way that the American military that had won every battle would appear to U.S. enemies as a defeat and surrender, thus President Joseph R. Biden adhered to our enemies while giving them aid and comfort, including more than $80 billion of military weapons and equipment, along with at least hundreds of Americans that our enemy could use to demand and receive vast amounts more of money to aid the enemy of the U.S. in their next attacks against us.
Article V
President Joseph R. Biden also knew that without more time for the vetting of potential Afghan immigrants to the U.S., military and State Department officials may well be bringing terrorists into the United States that could add to the Taliban death toll of 9–11, yet he persisted in violating his oath and duty to this country and our Constitution.
The Atlantic's George Packer quotes then-Vice President Biden as telling a fellow Obama Administration official in 2010 that these refugees shouldn't be a priority as U.S. troops departed:
F_ _ _ that, we don't have to worry about that. We did it in Vietnam, Nixon and Kissinger got away with it;
which provides further evidence that President Biden was and continues to be intentionally willing to destroy the reputation for trustworthiness of the United States that had been rebuilt over a period of decades after the Carter administration, at the cost of thousands of devoted and dedicated military lives and injuries, as those valiant American military members fought evil and sought to bring peace, now intentionally squandered by President Joseph R. Biden as he provided aid and comfort to all of America’s enemies.
The doubt President Joseph R. Biden has instilled across the globe not only does great harm and damage to the Nation he swore to protect, it does incalculable harm to the cause of freedom around the world as it has provided tremendous aid and comfort to the enemies of the Constitution of the United States and the freedoms sought to be protected therein.
Article VI
President Joseph R. Biden set a date for removal of all American personnel by August 31, 2021, knowing full well that chaos, murder and mayhem would ensue as indicated by many advisors, yet, he persisted in his orders and demands knowing that the 20th Anniversary of the worst attack on American soil killing thousands of Americans would be less than two weeks thereafter, also knowing that the most damaging development to this Nation other than another massive attack would be for the murderous Taliban members to be able to claim they were victorious over the United States on that very 20th Anniversary, yet President Joseph R. Biden persisted in giving aid and comfort to our enemies while devastating our own Nation’s reputation, even stating that the blame should go to the preceding Administration, whose warnings and safeguards against such an occurrence had been completely cast aside, disregarded, and belittled, even though the prior administration had provided President Biden a Nation without the massive insurgence on our southern border, and without the chaos and betrayal of our Afghan allies.
Article VII
On August 20, 2021, President Joseph R. Biden vowed that
any attack on our forces or disruption of our operations at the airport will be met with swift and forceful response.
However, when the Taliban allowed two vehicle-born IEDs into the airport on August 26, 2021, which killed thirteen U.S. service members and additional innocent civilians, President Joseph R. Biden solely blamed ISIS when he had agreed to allow the Taliban, an enemy of the U.S., to secure the U.S. perimeter at Bagram Airfield and allowed ISIS into a position where they could kill Americans, furthering damage to our reputation while he gave aid and comfort to the Taliban, China and Russia.
Article VIII
President Joseph R. Biden further gave aid and comfort to our enemy, the Taliban, by killing civilians friendly to the U.S. in an ordered drone strike on August 29, 2021, and then lying to the American people by saying the victims were ISIS–K
planners.
Article IX
Pursuant to instructions from President Joseph R. Biden, U.S. officials gave the Taliban the names of American citizens, green card holders and Afghan allies who would be allowed into the militant-controlled perimeter of the Kabul airport; such unthinkable action aided U.S. enemies by giving them in effect a
kill list
; and although it was allegedly designed to expedite the evacuation of those fleeing Afghanistan, the truth is that it is
… just appalling and shocking and makes you feel unclean
; all of which violated President Joseph R. Biden’s oath to the U.S. and our Constitution while at the same time giving aid in the form of billions of dollars of equipment to our enemies and a list of our allies to either kill, torture or ransom.
Article X
More than 20,000 soldiers were wounded in the conflict in Afghanistan, and many of those brave men and women now live with permanent disabilities, and suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder; yet President Joseph R. Biden has chosen to add to their traumatic stress leaving them to wonder if their valorous sacrifices were for nothing, again giving aid and comfort to our enemies while betraying our own military.
In the months since President Joseph R. Biden took control as the loftiest leader in the United States, plots were conceived and created with the blessing of President Biden to give our enemy and competing nations aid and comfort; furthermore, President Biden has made decisions to destroy American credibility on our southern border and in Afghanistan, despite knowing that from October 2001 through April 2021, more than 2,400 American service members have been killed in Afghanistan and more than 3,800 U.S. contractors had also lost their lives.
Article XI
Afghan security forces were built and trained at a two-decade cost of $83 billion over the course of three prior administrations, but because of the orders of President Biden, and despite being warned that our enemy, the Taliban, would probably take over quickly without different presidential orders, President Biden chose the strategy that would do irreparable harm to the United States and give aid and comfort to our enemy, causing the Afghan forces to collapse although a different strategy would have allowed our allies to remain in control; all as comments are now being made to slander our allies who fought ably with us and for us in Afghanistan; however President Joseph R. Biden continued to insist on a deadline and procedure for withdrawal that gave our allied Afghan military no chance to withstand the assault that had been prepared for such moment and which deadline was far more helpful to U.S. enemies than our own interests, as our enemy, the Taliban, uses guns, ammunition, armored personnel carriers, helicopters, massive ammunition, bombs, and much more that the Biden administration knowingly has left with our enemy.
Between 2003 and 2019, the United States transferred approximately 75,898 vehicles, 599,690 weapons, 162,643 pieces of communications equipment, 208 aircraft, and 16,191 pieces of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance equipment to Afghan forces, according to a 2017 Government Accountability Office report, and also gave Afghan forces 7,035 machine guns, 4,702 Humvees, 20,040 hand grenades, 2,520 bombs and 1,394 grenade launchers, along with 211 U.S. supplied aircraft, among other equipment according to reports from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, which supplies and equipment were left to the enemy of the U.S. by direction of President Joseph R. Biden and which aided and comforted our enemy that murdered thousands in America on 9–11.
Article XII
President Joseph R. Biden made the disastrous decisions to abandon both the Bagram Air Base and U.S. Embassy in Kabul which were both paid for at an expensive cost to the U.S. taxpayer, and provided strategically important transportation and resources for U.S. citizens and allies stranded in Afghanistan, thereby giving aid and comfort to enemies of the United States.
Article XIII
Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitution requires that
Congress shall have the power to … declare war
and
to raise and support armies;
and President Biden acted unlawfully and unconstitutionally in ordering air strikes in Syria, where there was no clear and present danger to U.S. troops, which did not aid the United States, but did commit the crime of intentionally and knowingly violating his oath to the United States Constitution, and President Biden previously provided proof of his knowledge that such actions of his own were treasonous by his claims though unjustified, that President Trump was dangerous
to our national security, to our leadership around the world and to the lives of the brave women and men serving in uniform
; establishing his mental capacity to understand the treasonous course which he himself had taken.
Article XIV
Iran made credible and specific threats against Fort McNair, a United States Army post in Washington, DC, and against the Army’s vice chief of staff, Gen. Joseph M. Martin, and Iran has also continued to enrich its uranium levels toward weapons-grade fissile material to the detriment of global stability and the national security of the United States and its citizens, while President Biden has failed to respond to the growing nuclear and terrorist threats of Iran by continuing to capitulate to their demands, undermining national security, aiding and comforting the largest sponsor of terrorism against the United States and the world, and knowingly putting his own country in grave peril.
Article XV
Though the U.S. Constitution requires that the President
take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed,
President Joseph R. Biden has blatantly acted not to enforce our Nation's duly enacted immigration laws, as demonstrated through overtly opening the U.S. southern border, failing to keep it as secure as it was when he took office, all to the treasonous damage to the United States.
Article XVI
President Joseph R. Biden and his administration have been and are transferring people with diseases including thousands of immigrants each month suffering from COVID–19 to undisclosed locations all over our country just as the Nation had been recovering from such pandemic, all as President Biden was warning Americans that they needed to once again give up more of their liberty and freedom because of the new surge in COVID–19 cases, all clearly demonstrating his willingness to criminally violate his oath to this country and to this Nation’s Constitution, as Americans continue to become infected with and die of COVID–19 while the increase in the number of immigrants illegally flooding into this country from all over the world continues to set new records, showing contempt for his sworn oath to the United States and its Constitution; further, these transfers have happened without the consent of the governed and President Joseph R. Biden has refused to provide Congress with the data necessary to inform U.S. citizens about the extent and numbers of these transfers and how many of those individuals are Covid positive, though ordering American citizens to give up their rights to make healthcare decisions over their own bodies.
Article XVII
Article IV, section 4, of the U.S. Constitution requires that
The United States shall guarantee to every State in this union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened) against domestic violence
; however, President Joseph R. Biden has refused the pleas of certain border states to reverse course and secure the southern border against this illegal invasion, even as the U.S. Border Patrol has continued to report capturing more terrorists entering our country illegally, and despite not knowing how many terrorists are entering without being caught, all while President Joseph R. Biden continues to knowingly violate his oath, aiding our enemies, sickening, killing, and taking freedoms away from Americans.
Article XVIII
President Joseph R. Biden intentionally caused media access to migrant facilities to be restricted during the ongoing border crisis, promoting an active campaign of censorship that restricts freedom of the press in direct violation of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution that he swore to protect, and President Joseph R. Biden further violated his constitutional responsibility of Congress by even restricting some members of Congress from being able to do adequate oversight of Federal border enforcement, while allowing much more freedom to those entering unlawfully, to the direct harm of the United States and to the aid and comfort of our enemies and adversaries.
Article XIX
President Joseph R. Biden further violated his oath of office by violating budget rules by freezing billions of dollars set aside to fund the border wall between the United States and Mexico, especially considering that President Joseph R. Biden is taking actions to add further support for more illegal immigration and take more of the money authorized only for Americans legally in this country and give it to those who have not only entered illegally, but some of whom have committed heinous crimes.
Article XX
President Joseph R. Biden has signed numerous Executive orders that violate our Nation’s Constitution which have severely restricted the United States ability to be energy independent, including imposing a moratorium on new oil and gas leases on Federal lands and waters, embracing disastrously crippling policies that grievously restrict our domestic energy production, while also waiving sanctions that were in place on Russia’s vast expansion of its ability to accelerate its natural gas production, which it uses to blackmail or extort our allies when it desires, thus showing that President Biden is violating his oath of office, aiding and comforting enemies and adversaries, all while damaging the economy of the United States, and still further, he is doing great harm to the health and well-being of Americans struggling to pay the rising energy costs and inflation that President Biden is creating.
Article XXI
In furtherance of his intentions to harm American interests and help our enemies, President Joseph R. Biden violated his oath to the U.S. Constitution and usurped authority he did not have by revoking the Keystone XL Pipeline, as that power to regulate foreign and interstate commerce belongs solely to Congress, yet he violated his constitutional oath and authority to the intentional detriment of the American people and for the aid and comfort to Russia and its oligarchs as well as the Chinese Communist Party, which have both provided large amounts of payments to President Joseph R. Biden’s family.
Article XXII
President Joseph R. Biden suspended for 90 days and then subsequently revoked President Trump’s Executive Order 13920, and thereby ended the prohibition of China, Russia, and other foreign adversaries, from accessing or owning parts of the U.S. power grid, which gave massive aid and comfort to American adversaries while doing incalculable damage to the security of the United States and left the working people and those on fixed incomes extremely vulnerable to foreign interference with their freedom and ability to live without suffering, thereby showing more deference and regard for America’s adversaries than for his own American people.
Article XXIII
President Joseph R. Biden further put Americans in harm’s way by revoking President Donald J. Trump’s Executive Order 13942 that addressed the threat that TikTok posed to Americans and which order was issued to ensure that Americans’ personal data would be free from Chinese manipulation and influence, yet President Joseph R. Biden intentionally and knowingly put the very people he took an oath to protect in clear and present danger and gave aid and comfort to U.S. adversaries.
Article XXIV
President Joseph R. Biden has officially kept in place the important restrictions that President Trump imposed on the Chinese telecommunications firm, Huawei, to restrict the sale of microchips to Huawei, yet the Biden administration has in fact approved licenses for Huawei to buy microchips from U.S.-based suppliers for use in parts including video screens, sensors and its auto component business, all of which has aided our enemy while jeopardizing America’s national security.
Article XXV
President Joseph R. Biden has taken broad actions to infringe on the constitutional rights that he swore to protect and defend, and in particular, the Second Amendment of the Constitution by creating Executive orders that not only do not defend the Constitution as he swore, but show an intent to violate the Constitution and the rights it recognizes that belong to the American people, as President Biden unconstitutionally legislated gun control restrictions by his orders.
Article XXVI
Our Constitution exists to constrain tyrannical power and establish a system of governance in the interest of the People, thereby securing their lives and the Blessings of Liberty, yet President Joseph R. Biden continued to unlawfully deprive U.S. citizens of their lawful occupations, by directing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to extend the eviction moratorium in August 2021, although the U.S. Supreme Court had held in June 2021 that any further extension beyond July 2021 would need to be congressionally approved, and which action by President Joseph R. Biden was so unconstitutional, that it could not pass a Democrat-led House of Representatives or Senate. By supporting this action, President Biden acted to intentionally usurp the rule of law in order to deprive our Nation’s landlords of the incomes they rely on to pay their own mortgages on such buildings, to feed their families and to provide for their own shelter, although he had previously acknowledged that such action was likely unconstitutional, all in knowingly violating his oath of office and intentionally harming America while aiding its adversaries.
Article XXVII
Joseph R. Biden, while Vice President of the United States, corruptly used his office and position of trust to enrich himself and family members, directly violating his oath of office by engaging in bribery as both a recipient and as the provider of a bribe, treasonously harming his country in order to receive money, and in order to shield his son from prosecution. Not only did he use his position of trust to gain financial rewards for himself and his family, he engaged in foreign business entanglements that were a direct conflict of interest, a direct violation of his oath of office, and were exacerbated by his denials of any knowledge of his family members’ foreign business dealings, while knowing full well of those precise self-dealings, all while demonstrating his knowledge of his high crimes and misdemeanors by lying repeatedly about his involvement and complicity because he knew it could subject him to impeachment and potential criminal liability as it did for Vice President Spiro Agnew. Such criminal mens rea was also demonstrated when, as Vice President, Joseph R. Biden met with his son’s Chinese business partner, helping Hunter Biden secure a billion-dollar private equity account. Further evidencing Vice President Biden’s involvement in the pay-to-play scheme that would enrich Hunter Biden who would provide part of his criminal rewards back to his father, Vice President Joseph R. Biden, all demonstrated by evidence on Hunter Biden’s hard drive including the revelation that in 2015 Joe Biden met with a high-level official of the Ukrainian energy company, Burisma, which had put Hunter on its board. Further, in 2018 Joseph R. Biden bragged on video to the Council on Foreign Relations that he had a Ukrainian prosecutor fired when he was vice president in return for making money available to Ukraine that Congress had appropriated, though Congress did not intend it to be used to shield Vice President Biden’s son from Ukrainian prosecution.
Conclusion
In all of the aforementioned, President Joseph R. Biden by his actions and intentional omissions, despite the profound duties of our Nation’s highest office and the dignities and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and courtesies necessary for stability within the society of the United States, has undermined the integrity of his office, has sown discord among the people of the United States, has brought disrepute, contempt, ridicule and disgrace on the Presidency, has abandoned our only friends and allies in Afghanistan while assisting the ascent of our Nation’s declared enemies, has acted in a manner antithetical to the cause of a just society, has betrayed trust as President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States, and committed in the aforementioned violations, treason, bribery, as well as high crimes and misdemeanors in office.
Therefore, President Joseph R. Biden, by committing treason, bribery, high crimes and misdemeanors, the violation of any of which constitutionally establish that he is unfit to be President, has, therefore, made necessary his own impeachment, trial, and removal from office.
