Whereas this resolution may be cited as the
Original resolution calling for, among other things, the inclusion of peace with a two state solution in H. Res. 1537 by way of a manager’s amendment or amendment in the Committee on Rules
;
Whereas H. Res. 1537 condemns the atrocities Hamas committed on October 7, 2023, and calls for the release of hostages, however it does not address the longstanding policy of a peaceful two-state solution nor fully address the ongoing suffering of innocent Palestinian civilians and especially children;
Whereas, on July 17, 2024, the Knesset of Israel passed a resolution by a vote of 68 to 9 that declared,
The Knesset of Israel firmly opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state west of Jordan. The establishment of a Palestinian state in the heart of the Land of Israel will pose an existential danger to the State of Israel and its citizens, perpetuate the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and destabilize the region.
;
Whereas, with its July 17, 2024, Knesset resolution, the Knesset of the State of Israel declared that no state of Palestine should be established between Jordan and the Mediterranean Sea;
Whereas, with its July 17, 2024, Knesset resolution, the State of Israel declared that Gaza and the West Bank will not become a Palestinian state;
Whereas, with its July 17, 2024, Knesset resolution, the State of Israel in effect declared that what was once the land of Palestine will not have a Palestinian state within it; and
Whereas, with its July 17, 2024, Knesset resolution, the State of Israel, by indicating that
the establishment of a Palestinian state in the heart of the land of Israel
, supra, is in effect declaring that all of what was less than 80 years ago the land of Palestine is now the land of Israel: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
respectfully seeks the following additions to the resolved text of H. Res. 1537—
(A)
encourages the Knesset of Israel to rescind its resolution passed on July 17, 2024, declaring,
The Knesset of Israel firmly opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state west of Jordan
;
(B)
encourages the State of Israel to seek peace with a two-state solution on the day after; and
(C)
encourages the State of Israel to take greater care for the lives of innocent Palestinian men, women, and especially children in the recovery of hostages; and
(2)
encourages this resolution to be considered in the House of Representatives at such time as H. Res. 1537 is considered in the House of Representatives.
