Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of fifteen members appointed or designated by the President and selected as follows:

(1) Five members selected by the President from among officers or employees of  , private citizens of  , or both. Not more than three of the members selected by the President shall be members of the same political party;

(2) Five members selected by the Majority Leader of the   from among members of the  , private citizens of  , or both. Not more than three of the members selected by the Majority Leader shall be members of the same political party;

(3) Five members selected by the Speaker of   from among members of the  , private citizens of  , or both. Not more than three of the members selected by the Speaker shall be members of the same political party.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall review relevant analyses of the current and long-term financial condition of the   trust funds; identify problems that may threaten the long-term solvency of such funds; analyze potential solutions to such problems that will both assure the financial integrity of   and the provision of appropriate benefits; and provide appropriate recommendations to the Secretary of  , the President, and the  .

(b) The   shall make its report to the President by  .

 . 3. Administration.

(a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any additional compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(c) The   shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director. Any expenses of the   shall be paid from such funds as may be available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General.

(a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.
