Section 1. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of not more than twenty members appointed or designated by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. (a) The   shall make a full and complete national and region-by-region analysis of organized crime; define the nature of traditional organized crime as well as emerging organized crime groups, the sources and amounts of organized crime's income, and the uses to which organized crime puts its income; develop indepth information on the participants in organized crime networks; and evaluate Federal laws pertinent to the effort to combat organized crime. The   shall advise the President and the Attorney General with respect to its findings and actions which can be undertaken to improve law enforcement efforts directed against organized crime, and make recommendations concerning appropriate administrative and legislative improvements and improvements in the administration of justice.

(b) The   shall report to the President from time to time as requested and shall submit its final report by  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   or who are Members of   or   may, subject to the availability of funds, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Attorney General shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Attorney General, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall, unless otherwise extended, terminate   from the date of this  .
