Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   The   shall be composed of not more than twenty-two (22) members from private life and from   and local governments who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice-Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. The   shall advise the President and the Secretary of   with respect to options for the development of a national housing policy consistent with the President's   and the role and objectives of the government in future housing availability. Consistent with these general functions, the   shall:

a. Analyze the relationship of home ownership to political, social, and economic stability within the nation;

b. review all existing federal housing policies and programs;

c. assess those factors which contribute to the cost of housing as well as the current housing finance structure and practices in the country;

  seek to develop housing and mortgage finance options which strengthen the ability of the private sector to maximize opportunities for home-ownership and provide adequate shelter for all  ;

e. detail program options for basic reform of federally-subsidized housing; and,

f. utilize such private and public sector expertise available in the housing field as the  , in its discretion, deems appropriate.

The   shall provide information and advice to the President or to the Secretary of   whenever requested and shall provide the President and the Secretary of   with an interim report not   and a final report not   April  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(b)   of the Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(c) Any expenses of the   shall be paid from funds available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the advisory committee established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate upon presenting its final report and recommendations to the President and the Secretary of  .
