Part I. Succession to the Position of Secretary of  .

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the incumbents in   positions listed below shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Deputy Secretary of  .

2. Secretary of the  .

3. Secretary of the  .

4. Secretary of  .

5. Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

6. Under Secretary of  .

7. Assistant Secretaries of Defense and    , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

8. Under Secretaries of the  , the  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

9. Assistant Secretaries of the  , the  , and  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

Precedence within a particular group between or among two or more officers having the same date of appointment shall be as determined by the Secretary of   at the time of appointment.

Part II. Succession to the Position of Secretary of the  .

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the officers designated below shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of the  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff,  .

5.  ,  .

Part III. Succession to the Position of Secretary of the  .

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of the  , the officers designated below shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of the   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of the  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of the  , in the order prescribed by the Secretary of the  , or if no order is prescribed by the Secretary, then in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of  .

4. Vice Chief of Naval Operations.

Part IV Succession to the Position of Secretary of  .

In the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , the officers designated below shall succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of   in the order indicated:

1. Under Secretary of  .

2. Assistant Secretaries of  , in the order fixed by their length of service as such.

3. Chief of Staff,  .

4. Vice Chief of Staff,  .

5. The senior Deputy Chief of Staff who is not absent or disabled.

6. The Commander,  .

Part V. Variations in  .

Without regard to any other part of this  , except Part VI, the President, or the person acting as President under section 19 of title 3, United States Code, may, in the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , appoint any officer designated in Part I of this   to succeed to the position of, and act as, Secretary of  ; and that person may, in the event of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary of  , appoint any officer designated in the part of this   that relates to the order to succession in the   concerned to succeed to the position of, and act as, the Secretary of that  .

Part VI. Temporary Nature of Succession/ Acting Capacity.

Succession to office pursuant to this   shall be on a temporary or interim basis and shall not have the effect of vacating the statutory position held by the successor. An officer shall not succeed to any position under this order if the position that he occupies entitling him so to succeed is held by him in an acting capacity only. part VII. Revocation of Prior Executive Order.

Executive Order No. 10820 of  , is hereby revoked.
