Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   ("Commission"). The   shall be composed of nine members who shall be appointed by the President. The members shall represent a broad range of views and interests and shall be appointed in a manner that ensures that not more than a mere majority of the members are of the same political party. Any vacancy in the   shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(b) The President shall designate one of the members of the   as Chairperson to serve at the pleasure of the President.

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall conduct a comprehensive study of appropriate means of fully compensating victims of a catastrophic nuclear accident that exceeds the amount of aggregate public liability under section 170 of the Atomic Energy Act of   (42 U.S.C.  ), as amended, subsection (e)(1), and shall submit to the  , after a review by the President, a final report of the study setting forth:

(1) recommendations for any changes in the laws and rules governing the liability or civil procedures that are necessary for the equitable, prompt, and efficient resolution and payment of all valid damage claims, including the advisability of adjudicating public liability claims through an administrative agency instead of the judicial system;

(2) recommendations for any standards or procedures that are necessary to establish priorities for the hearing, resolution, and payments of claims when awards are likely to exceed the amount of funds available within a specific time period; and

(3) recommendations for any special standards or procedures necessary to decide and pay claims for latent injuries caused by the nuclear incident.

(b) The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice, or assistance as it determines to be necessary to carry out its functions. Each such agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information, advice, or assistance upon request by  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The Chairperson of the Commission may appoint and fix the compensation of a staff of such persons as may be necessary to discharge the responsibilities of the study commission, subject to the applicable provisions of   and title 5, United States Code.

(b) To the extent permitted by law and requested by  ,   shall provide the   with necessary administrative services, facilities, and support on a reimbursable basis.

(c) The Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of   shall provide, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, the   with such facilities, support, funds, and services, including staff, as may be necessary for the effective performance of the functions of the  .

(d) Each member of the   may receive compensation at the maximum rate prescribed by   for   such member is engaged in the work of the  . Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, under sections 5702 and   of title 5, United States Code.

(e) The functions of the President under   that are applicable to the  , except the function of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  .

 . 4. General. (a) The final report required in section 2 shall be submitted to the   not  .

(b) The   shall terminate upon the expiration of the   period beginning on the date on which the final report required in section 2 is submitted.
