Section 1. Responsibility of the Secretary of  . The Secretary of   shall conduct the government-to-government relations of   with  ,   of  , and   (the "Freely Associated States"), including any subdivisions, officials or persons thereof, and may delegate or allocate such of his authority under this   to such other   officials as he may from time to time deem desirable. The authority of the Secretary of   shall include, consistent with Article V of Title One of the Compact and section 105(b)(1) of the Act, the establishment and maintenance of representative offices in the Freely Associated States and supervision of   representatives and their staff. The Secretary also shall provide, in accordance with applicable law, for appropriate privileges, immunities, and assistance to representatives to   designated by  , together with their officers and staff. In accordance with applicable law and the provisions of this  , the Secretary also shall have the authority and responsibility to take such other actions as may be necessary and appropriate to ensure that the authorities and obligations of   set forth in the   and its related agreements and in the laws of   as they relate to the conduct of government-to-government relations with   are carried out. The Secretary shall provide from appropriations made to   such funds as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this   in relation to the activities of  .

 . 2. Responsibility of the Secretary of the  . The Secretary of the   shall be responsible for seeking the appropriation of funds for and, in accordance with the laws of  , shall make available to     economic and financial assistance appropriated pursuant to Article I of Title Two of the Compact; the grant, service, and program assistance appropriated pursuant to Article II of Title Two of the  ; and all other   assistance appropriated pursuant to the   and its related agreements. The Secretary shall coordinate and monitor any program or any activity by any department or agency of   provided to   and shall coordinate and monitor related economic development planning. This Section shall not apply to services provided by   to the Freely Associated States or to activities pursuant to Section 1 of this  , including activities under the Peace Corps Act.

 . 3. Interagency Group on   and  .

(a) There is established   for the purpose of providing guidance and oversight with respect to the establishment and implementation of policy concerning the   and   relations with  .

(b)   shall consist of the Secretary of   or his designee, who shall chair the  , and of the principal officers or their designees from  , and  ,  ,  ,  , and such other departments and agencies as may from time to time be appropriate.

(c)   shall make such recommendations as it shall deem appropriate to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , concerning   relations with  .   also shall provide such guidance as it deems appropriate to departments and agencies delegated authority by this   concerning administration of laws with respect to  .

(d) If any department or agency charged by this   with implementation of the   or other laws of   with respect to   concludes that noncompliance sanctions pursuant to section 105(g) of the Act are appropriate, it shall make appropriate recommendations to  .   shall consider these recommendations and report its findings to the President for his review in making that determination.

(e)(1) There shall be in   to conduct   relations with   and carry out related matters, as the Secretary of   shall direct or delegate, and provide appropriate support to  .

(2) The Office shall be headed by a Director designated by the Secretary of  , to whom the Secretaries of State,  , and the   may, to the extent permitted by law, delegate any or all of their respective authorities and responsibilities as described in this  , including the authority to supervise   representatives referred to in Section 4 of this Order. The Director shall serve as Executive Secretary of  .

(3) Personnel additional to that provided by the Secretary of   may be detailed to the   by the   departments and agencies that are members of  , and by other agencies as appropriate. Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, advice, and administrative services and facilities as may be necessary for the fulfillment of the functions of the Office.

 . 4.   to the Freely Associated States.   Representative assigned to a   in accordance with Article V of Title One of the Compact shall represent the Government of   in an official capacity in that  , and shall supervise the actions of any Executive department or agency personnel assigned permanently or temporarily to that  .

 . 5. Cooperation among Executive Departments and Agencies. All Executive departments and agencies shall cooperate in the effectuation of the provisions of this Order.   shall facilitate such cooperative measures. Nothing in this   shall be construed to impair the authority and responsibility of the Secretary of   for security and defense matters in or relating to the Freely Associated States.

 . 6. Delegation to the Secretary of the  . The following authorities are delegated to the Secretary of the Interior:

(a) Reporting to the   on economic development plans prepared by   of   and  , pursuant to sections 102(b) and 103(b) of the Act;

(b) The determination required by section 103(e) of the Act concerning the qualifications of the investment management firm selected by  ;

(c) Reporting to the   with respect to the impact of   on   territories and commonwealths and on  , pursuant to section 104(e)(2) of the Act; and

(d) Causing an   audit to be conducted of the   financial statements of   of   and  , pursuant to section 110

(b) of the Act.

 . 7. Delegation to the Secretary of  . The following authorities are delegated to the Secretary of  :

(a) Reporting to the   on crimes in   of   and the Marshall Islands which have an impact upon   jurisdictions, pursuant to sections 102(a)(4) and 103(a)(4) of the Act;

(b) Submitting the certification and report to the   for purposes of section 5 of the Fishermen's Protective Act of  , pursuant to section 104(f)(3) of the Act; and

(c) Reporting, with the concurrence of the Secretary of  , to the   on determinations made regarding security and defense, pursuant to section 105(q) of the Act.

 . 8. Supersession and Saving Provisions.

(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 9 of this  , prior Executive orders concerning the former   of the Pacific Islands are hereby superseded and rendered inapplicable, except that the authority of the Secretary of the   as provided in applicable provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended, shall remain in effect, in a manner consistent with this   and pursuant to section 105(c)(2) of the Act, to terminate the trust territory government and discharge its responsibilities, at which time the entirety of Executive Order No.   shall be superseded.

(b) Nothing in this   shall be construed as modifying the rights or obligations of   under the provisions of the Compact or as affecting or modifying the responsibility of the Secretary of   and the Attorney General to interpret the rights and obligations of   arising out of or concerning the Compact.

 . 9,  . This   shall become effective with respect to a Freely Associated State simultaneously with the entry into force of the Compact for that  .
