1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as
the
National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2014
.
2.
Organization of
Act into divisions; table of contents
(a)
Divisions
This
Act is organized into four divisions as follows:
(1)
Division
A–Department of Defense Authorizations.
(2)
Division
B–Military Construction Authorizations.
(3)
Division
C–Department of Energy National Security Authorizations and Other
Authorizations.
(4)
Division
D–Funding Tables.
(b)
Table of
contents
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short
title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of
contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
DIVISION A—Department of Defense
Authorizations
TITLE I—Procurement
Subtitle A—Authorization of
Appropriations
Sec. 101. Authorization of
appropriations.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
Sec. 121. Multiyear procurement authority
for E–2D aircraft.
Sec. 122. CVN–78 class aircraft carrier
program.
Sec. 123. Repeal of requirements relating
to procurement of future surface combatants.
Sec. 124. Modification of requirements to
sustain Navy airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
capabilities.
Sec. 125. Littoral Combat
Ship.
Subtitle D—Air Force Programs
Sec. 131. Tactical airlift fleet of the
Air Force.
Sec. 132. Modification of limitations on
retirement of B–52 bomber aircraft.
Sec. 133. Repeal of requirement for
maintenance of certain retired KC–135E aircraft.
Sec. 134. Prohibition of procurement of
unnecessary C–27J aircraft by the Air Force.
Subtitle E—Joint and Multiservice
Matters
Sec. 151. Multiyear procurement authority
for C–130J aircraft.
Sec. 152. Sense of Senate on the United
States helicopter industrial base.
TITLE II—Research, Development, Test, and
Evaluation
Subtitle A—Authorization of
Appropriations
Sec. 201. Authorization of
appropriations.
Subtitle B—Program Requirements,
Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 211. Conventional Prompt Global
Strike program.
Sec. 212. Modification of requirements on
biennial strategic plan for the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency.
Sec. 213. Extension of authority for
program to award prizes for advanced technology achievements.
Sec. 214. Five-year extension of pilot
program to include technology protection features during research and
development of certain defense systems.
Sec. 215. Extension of mechanisms to
provide funds for defense laboratories for research and development of
technologies for military missions.
Sec. 216. Sustainment or replacement of
Blue Devil Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance System.
Subtitle C—Missile Defense
Programs
Sec. 231. Homeland ballistic missile
defense.
Sec. 232. Regional ballistic missile
defense.
Sec. 233. Missile defense cooperation with
Russia.
Sec. 234. Additional missile defense radar
for the protection of the United States homeland.
Sec. 235. Evaluation of options for future
ballistic missile defense sensor architectures.
Sec. 236. Prohibition on the use of funds
for the MEADS program.
Subtitle D—Reports and Other
Matters
Sec. 251. Annual Comptroller General of
the United States report on the acquisition program for the VXX Presidential
Helicopter.
TITLE III—Operation and
Maintenance
Subtitle A—Authorization of
appropriations
Sec. 301. Operation and maintenance
funding.
Subtitle B—Logistics and
sustainment
Sec. 311. Sustainment of critical
manufacturing capabilities within Army arsenals.
Sec. 312. Strategic policy for
prepositioned materiel and equipment.
Sec. 313. Extension and modification of
authority for airlift transportation at Department of Defense rates for
non-Department of Defense Federal cargoes.
Subtitle C—Readiness
Sec. 321. Modification of authorities on
prioritization of funds for equipment readiness and strategic
capability.
Sec. 322. Strategic policy for the
retrograde, reconstitution, and replacement of operating forces used to support
overseas contingency operations.
Subtitle D—Reports
Sec. 331. Strategy for improving asset
visibility and in-transit visibility.
Sec. 332. Changes to quarterly reports on
personnel and unit readiness.
Sec. 333. Revision to requirement for
annual submission of information regarding information technology capital
assets.
Sec. 334. Modification of annual corrosion
control and prevention reporting requirements.
Subtitle E—Limitations and extension of
authority
Sec. 341. Limitation on funding for United
States Special Operations Command National Capital Region.
Sec. 342. Limitation on funding for
Regional Special Operations Coordination Centers.
Sec. 343. Limitation on availability of
funds for Trans Regional Web Initiative (TRWI).
Subtitle F—Other matters
Sec. 351. Revised policy on ground combat
and camouflage utility uniforms.
Sec. 352. Authorization to institute a
centralized, automated mail redirection system to improve the delivery of
absentee ballots to military personnel serving outside the United
States.
TITLE IV—Military Personnel
Authorizations
Subtitle A—Active Forces
Sec. 401. End strengths for active
forces.
Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected
Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on
active duty in support of the reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military
technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2014 limitation on
number of non-dual status technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve
personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational support.
Subtitle C—Authorization of
Appropriations
Sec. 421. Military personnel.
TITLE V—Military Personnel
Policy
Subtitle A—Officer Personnel Policy
Generally
Sec. 501. Service credit for cyberspace
experience or advanced education upon original appointment as a commissioned
officer.
Subtitle B—Reserve Component
Management
Sec. 506. Information to be provided to
boards considering officers for selective early removal from the reserve
active-status list.
Sec. 507. Removal of restrictions on the
transfer of officers between the active and inactive National
Guard.
Sec. 508. Limitation on certain
cancellations of deployment of reserve component units within 180 days of
scheduled date of deployment.
Sec. 509. National Guard Youth Challenge
Program.
Subtitle C—General Service
Authorities
Sec. 511. Expansion and enhancement of
authorities relating to protected communications of members of the Armed Forces
and prohibited retaliatory actions.
Sec. 512. Enhancement of protection of
rights of conscience of members of the Armed Forces and chaplains of such
members.
Sec. 513. Department of Defense Inspector
General reports on compliance with requirements for the protection of rights of
conscience of members of the Armed Forces and their chaplains.
Subtitle D—Member Education and
Training
Sec. 521. Authority for joint professional
military education Phase II instruction and credit to be offered and awarded
through senior-level course of School of Advanced Military Studies of the
United States Army Command and General Staff College.
Sec. 522. Authority for Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences to support undergraduate and other medical
education and training programs for military medical personnel.
Sec. 523. Expansion of eligibility for
associate degree programs under the Community College of the Air
Force.
Sec. 524. Additional requirements for
approval of educational programs for purposes of certain educational assistance
under laws administered by the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 525. Enhancement of mechanisms to
correlate skills and training for military occupational specialties with skills
and training required for civilian certifications and licenses.
Sec. 526. Coverage of military
occupational specialities relating to military information technology under
pilot program on receipt of civilian credentials for skills required for
military occupational specialties.
Sec. 527. Sense of Senate on the
Troops-to-Teachers Program.
Sec. 528. Conforming amendment relating to
renaming of North Georgia College and State University as University of North
Georgia.
Subtitle E—Sexual Assault Prevention and
Response and Military Justice Matters
PART I—Sexual Assault Prevention and
Response
Sec. 531. Prohibition on service in the
Armed Forces by individuals who have been convicted of certain sexual
offenses.
Sec. 532. Temporary administrative
reassignment or removal of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty who is
accused of committing a sexual assault or related offense.
Sec. 533. Issuance of regulations
applicable to the Coast Guard regarding consideration of request for permanent
change of station or unit transfer by victim of sexual assault.
Sec. 534. Inclusion and command review of
information on sexual-related offenses in personnel service records of members
of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 535. Enhanced responsibilities of
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office for Department of Defense sexual
assault prevention and response program.
Sec. 536. Comprehensive review of adequacy
of training for members of the Armed Forces on sexual assault prevention and
response.
Sec. 537. Availability of Sexual Assault
Response Coordinators for members of the National Guard and the
Reserves.
Sec. 538. Retention of certain forms in
connection with Restricted Reports and Unrestricted Reports on sexual assault
involving members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 539. Special Victims' Counsel for
victims of sexual assault committed by members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540. Sense of Congress on commanding
officer responsibility for command climate free of retaliation.
Sec. 541. Commanding officer action on
reports on sexual offenses involving members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 542. Department of Defense Inspector
General investigation of allegations of retaliatory personnel actions taken in
response to making protected communications regarding sexual
assault.
Sec. 543. Advancement of submittal
deadline for report of independent panel on assessment of military response
systems to sexual assault.
Sec. 544. Assessment of clemency in the
military justice system and of database of alleged offenders of sexual assault
as additional duties of independent panel on review and assessment of systems
to respond to sexual assault cases.
Sec. 545. Assessment of provisions and
proposed provisions of law on sexual assault prevention and response as
additional duties of independent panels for review and assessment of Uniform
Code of Military Justice and judicial proceedings of sexual assault
cases.
Sec. 546. Assessment of compensation and
restitution of victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
as additional duty of independent panel on review and assessment of judicial
proceedings of sexual assault cases.
PART II—Related Military Justice
Matters
Sec. 551. Elimination of five-year statute
of limitations on trial by court-martial for additional offenses involving
sex-related crimes.
Sec. 552. Review of decisions not to refer
charges of certain sexual offenses to trial by court-martial.
Sec. 553. Defense counsel interview of
complaining witnesses in presence of trial counsel or outside
counsel.
Sec. 554. Mandatory discharge or dismissal
for certain sex-related offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and
trial of such offenses by general courts-martial.
Sec. 555. Limitation on authority of
convening authority to modify findings of a court-martial.
Sec. 556. Participation by complaining
witnesses in clemency phase of courts-martial process.
Sec. 557. Secretary of Defense report on
modifications to the Uniform Code of Military Justice to prohibit sexual acts
and contacts between military instructors and trainees.
Sec. 558. Sense of Senate on disposition
of charges involving certain sexual misconduct offenses under the Uniform Code
of Military Justice through courts-martial.
Sec. 559. Sense of Senate on the discharge
in lieu of court-martial of members of the Armed Forces who commit
sexual-related offenses.
PART III—Other Military Justice and Legal
Matters
Sec. 561. Modification of eligibility for
appointment as Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed
Forces.
Sec. 562. Repeal of the offense of
consensual sodomy under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 563. Prohibition of retaliation
against members of the Armed Forces for reporting a criminal
offense.
Sec. 564. Extension of crime victims'
rights to victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice.
Sec. 565. Modification of Manual for
Courts-Martial to eliminate factor relating to character and military service
of the accused in rule on initial disposition of offenses.
Subtitle F—Defense Dependents' Education
and Military Family Readiness Matters
Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to
assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of members of the
Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. Impact aid for children with
severe disabilities.
Subtitle G—Decorations and
Awards
Sec. 581. Matters relating to Medals of
Honor and other medals of high precedence for members of the Armed
Forces.
Sec. 582. Recodification and revision of
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll.
Sec. 583. Authority for award of the
Distinguished Service Cross to Robert F. Keiser for valor during the Korean
War.
Sec. 584. Authority for award of the
Distinguished Service Cross to Sergeant First Class Patrick N. Watkins, Jr.,
for acts of valor during the Vietnam War.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 591. Additional requirements for
accounting for members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian
employees listed as missing.
Sec. 592. Expansion of privileged
information authorities to debriefing reports of certain recovered persons who
were never placed in a missing status.
TITLE VI—Compensation and Other Personnel
Benefits
Subtitle A—Pay and Allowances
Sec. 601. Fiscal year 2014 increase in
military basic pay.
Sec. 602. Repeal of authority relating to
commencement of basic pay for members of the National Guard called into Federal
service for less than 30 days.
Sec. 603. Extension of authority to
provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for housing under
certain circumstances.
Subtitle B—Bonuses and Special and
Incentive Pays
Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain
bonus and special pay authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain
bonus and special pay authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special
pay and bonus authorities for nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of
authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and
bonus authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of
authorities relating to payment of other title 37 bonuses and special
pays.
Sec. 616. Correction of citation for
extension of reimbursement authority for travel expenses for inactive-duty
training outside of normal commuting distance and additional one-year
extension.
Sec. 617. Expansion to all reserve
components of stipend for registered nurses in critical specialties under
health professions stipend program.
Subtitle C—Travel and Transportation
Allowances
Sec. 631. Technical and standardizing
amendments to Department of Defense travel and transportation authorities in
connection with reform of such authorities.
Subtitle D—Disability, Retired Pay, and
Survivor Benefits
Sec. 641. Clarification of prevention of
retired pay inversion in the case of members whose retired pay is computed
using high-three.
Sec. 642. Effect on division of retired
pay of election to receive combat-related special compensation after previous
election to receive concurrent retirement and disability
compensation.
Sec. 643. Survivor Benefit Plan annuities
for special needs trusts established for the benefit of dependent children
incapable of self-support.
Sec. 644. Periodic notice to members of
the Ready Reserve on early retirement credit earned for significant periods of
active Federal status or active duty.
Sec. 645. Preservation of retiree
dependent status for certain dependents upon death or permanent incapacitation
of the retired member on whom dependent status is based.
Subtitle E—Military Lending
Matters
Sec. 661. Enhanced role for the Department
of Justice under the Military Lending Act.
Subtitle F—Other Matters
Sec. 671. Authority to provide certain
expenses for care and disposition of human remains that were retained by the
Department of Defense for forensic pathology investigation.
Sec. 672. Extension of ongoing pilot
programs under temporary Army incentive to provide additional recruitment
incentives.
TITLE VII—Health Care Provisions
Subtitle B—Health Care
Administration
Sec. 711. Pilot program on increased
collection of third-party reimbursements for health care services provided in
military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 712. Sense of Senate on
implementation of integrated electronic health records for the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other
Matters
Sec. 721. Report on provision of advanced
prosthetics and orthotics to members of the Armed Forces and
veterans.
TITLE VIII—Acquisition Policy, Acquisition
Management, and Related Matters
Subtitle A—Acquisition Policy and
Management
Sec. 801. Restatement and revision of
requirements applicable to multiyear defense acquisitions to be specifically
authorized by law.
Sec. 802. Extension of authority to
acquire products and services produced in countries along a major route of
supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 803. Report on program manager
training and experience.
Subtitle B—Provisions Relating to Major
Defense Acquisition Programs
Sec. 821. Synchronization of cryptographic
systems for major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 822. Assessment of dedicated control
system before Milestone B approval of major defense acquisition programs
constituting a space program.
Sec. 823. Additional responsibility for
product support managers for major weapon systems.
Sec. 824. Comptroller General of the
United States review of Department of Defense processes for the acquisition of
weapon systems.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General
Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
Sec. 841. Maximum amount of allowable
costs of compensation of contractor employees.
Sec. 842. Implementation by Department of
Defense of certain recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United
States on oversight of pensions offered by Department contractors.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
Sec. 861. Extension of prohibition on
contracting with the enemy in the United States Central Command theater of
operations.
Sec. 862. Prohibition on contracting with
the enemy.
Sec. 863. Report on the elimination of
improper payments.
TITLE IX—Department of Defense Organization
and Management
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
Management
Sec. 901. Under Secretary of Defense for
Management.
Sec. 902. Supervision of Command
Acquisition Executive of the United States Special Operations Command by the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics.
Sec. 903. Council on Oversight of the
National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 904. Transfer of administration of
Ocean Research Advisory Panel from Department of the Navy to National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 905. Streamlining of Department of
Defense management headquarters.
Sec. 906. Update of statutory statement of
functions of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff relating to doctrine,
training, and education.
Sec. 907. Modification of reference to
major Department of Defense headquarters activities instruction.
Subtitle B—Space Activities
Sec. 921. Limitation on use of funds for
Space Protection Program.
Subtitle C—Intelligence-Related
Matters
Sec. 931. Personnel security.
Sec. 932. Reports on clandestine human
intelligence collection.
Sec. 933. Navy Broad-Area Maritime
Surveillance aircraft.
Sec. 934. Plan for transfer of Air Force
C–12 Liberty Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
aircraft.
Subtitle D—Cyberspace-Related
Matters
Sec. 941. Authorities, capabilities, and
oversight of the United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 942. Joint software assurance center
for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 943. Supervision of the acquisition
of cloud computing capabilities for intelligence analysis.
Sec. 944. Cyber vulnerabilities of
Department of Defense weapon systems and tactical communications
systems.
Sec. 945. Strategy on use of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces to support Department of Defense cyber
missions.
Sec. 946. Control of the proliferation of
cyber weapons.
Sec. 947. Integrated policy to deter
adversaries in cyberspace.
Sec. 948. Centers of Academic Excellence
for Information Assurance matters.
TITLE X—General Provisions
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 1001. General transfer
authority.
Sec. 1002. Department of Defense Readiness
Restoration Fund.
Subtitle B—Counter-Drug
Activities
Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to
support unified counter-drug and counterterrorism campaign in
Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Extension of authority for
joint task forces to provide support to law enforcement agencies conducting
counter-terrorism activities.
Sec. 1013. Extension and expansion of
authority to provide additional support for counter-drug activities of certain
foreign governments.
Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and
Shipyards
Sec. 1021. Modification of requirements
for annual long-range plan for the construction of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. Report on naval vessels and the
Force Structure Assessment.
Sec. 1023. Repeal of policy relating to
propulsion systems of any new class of major combatant vessels of the strike
forces of the United States Navy.
Sec. 1024. Clarification of sole ownership
resulting from ship donations at no cost to the Navy.
Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
Sec. 1031. Transfers to foreign countries
of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
Sec. 1032. Authority to temporarily
transfer individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, to the United States for emergency or critical medical
treatment.
Sec. 1033. Limitation on the transfer or
release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Clarification of procedures for
use of alternate members on military commissions.
Subtitle E—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 1041. Modification of
responsibilities and reporting requirements of Nuclear Weapons
Council.
Sec. 1042. Modification of deadline for
report on plan for nuclear weapons stockpile and nuclear weapons
complex.
Sec. 1043. Cost estimates and comparisons
relating to interoperable warhead.
Sec. 1044. Sense of Congress on ensuring
the modernization of United States nuclear forces.
Sec. 1045. Readiness and flexibility of
intercontinental ballistic missile force.
Subtitle F—Miscellaneous Authorities and
Limitations
Sec. 1051. National security spectrum
strategy.
Sec. 1052. Department of Defense
representation in dispute resolution regarding surrender of Department of
Defense bands of electromagnetic frequencies.
Sec. 1053. Sense of Senate on parental
rights of members of the Armed Forces in child custody
determinations.
Subtitle G—Studies and
Reports
Sec. 1061. Repeal and modification of
reporting requirements.
Sec. 1062. Report on plans for the
disposition of the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle fleet.
Sec. 1063. Report on foreign language
support contracts for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1064. Civil Air Patrol.
Sec. 1065. Eagle Vision
system.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 1081. Extension of Ministry of
Defense Advisor Program.
TITLE XI—Civilian Personnel
Matters
Sec. 1101. Extension of voluntary
reduction-in-force authority for civilian employees of the Department of
Defense.
Sec. 1102. Extension of authority to make
lump sum severance payments to Department of Defense employees.
Sec. 1103. Expansion of protection of
employees of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities from reprisals.
Sec. 1104. Extension of enhanced
appointment and compensation authority for civilian personnel for care and
treatment of wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1105. Amount of educational
assistance under Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation Defense
Education Program.
Sec. 1106. Flexibility in employment and
compensation of civilian faculty at certain additional Department of Defense
schools.
Sec. 1107. Temporary authority for direct
appointment to certain positions at Department of Defense research and
engineering facilities.
Sec. 1108. Modernization of titles of
nonappropriated fund instrumentalities for purposes of certain civil service
laws.
TITLE XII—Matters Relating to Foreign
Nations
Subtitle A—Assistance and
Training
Sec. 1201. Modification and extension of
authorities relating to program to build the capacity of foreign military
forces.
Sec. 1202. Revisions to Global Security
Contingency Fund authority.
Sec. 1203. Training of general purpose
forces of the United States Armed Forces with military and other security
forces of friendly foreign countries.
Sec. 1204. United States counterterrorism
assistance and cooperation in North Africa.
Sec. 1205. Assistance to the Government of
Jordan for border security operations.
Sec. 1206. Authority to conduct activities
to enhance the capability of foreign countries to respond to incidents
involving weapons of mass destruction.
Sec. 1207. Support of foreign forces
participating in operations to disarm the Lord's Resistance Army.
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq
Sec. 1211. Commanders’ Emergency Response
Program in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of
authority to support operations and activities of the Office of Security
Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1213. One-year extension and
modification of authority to use funds for reintegration activities in
Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. One-year extension and
modification of authority for program to develop and carry out infrastructure
projects in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of authority for
reimbursement of certain coalition nations for support provided to United
States military operations.
Sec. 1216. Extension of logistical support
for coalition forces supporting certain United States military
operations.
Sec. 1217. Extension and improvement of
the Iraqi special immigrant visa program.
Sec. 1218. Extension and improvement of
the Afghan special immigrant visa program.
Sec. 1219. Sense of Congress on
commencement of new long-term nation building or large-scale infrastructure
development projects in Afghanistan.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other
Matters
Sec. 1231. Two-year extension of
authorization for non-conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1232. Element on 5th generation
fighter program in annual report on military and security developments
involving the People’s Republic of China.
Sec. 1233. Prohibition on use of funds to
enter into contracts or agreements with Rosoboronexport.
Sec. 1234. Modification of statutory
references to former North Atlantic Treaty Organization support organizations
and related agreements.
Sec. 1235. Technical correction relating
to funding for NATO Special Operations Headquarters.
Sec. 1236. Strategy to prevent the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials in the
Middle East and North Africa region.
TITLE XIII—Cooperative threat
reduction
Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative
Threat Reduction programs and funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding
allocations.
Sec. 1303. Extension of authority for
utilization of contributions to the Cooperative Threat Reduction
program.
TITLE XIV—Other Authorizations
Subtitle A—Military Programs
Sec. 1401. Working capital
funds.
Sec. 1402. National Defense Sealift
Fund.
Sec. 1403. Chemical Agents and Munitions
Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1404. Drug Interdiction and
Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1405. Defense Inspector
General.
Sec. 1406. Defense Health
Program.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
Sec. 1421. Authorization of appropriations
for Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 1422. Authority for transfer of funds
to Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility
Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center,
Illinois.
TITLE XV—Authorization of Additional
Appropriations for Overseas Contingency Operations
Subtitle A—Authorization of Additional
Appropriations
Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test,
and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and
maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital
funds.
Sec. 1507. National Defense Sealift
Fund.
Sec. 1508. Chemical Agents and Munitions
Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1509. Drug Interdiction and
Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1510. Defense Inspector
General.
Sec. 1511. Defense Health
program.
Subtitle B—Financial Matters
Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional
authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer
authority.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 1531. Joint Improvised Explosive
Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1532. Afghanistan Security Forces
Fund.
Sec. 1533. Extension of authority for Task
Force for Business and Stability Operations in Afghanistan.
DIVISION B—Military construction
authorizations
Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations
and amounts required to be specified by law.
TITLE XXI—Army military
construction
Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of
appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2011 project.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2010 project.
Sec. 2106. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2004 project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of
certain fiscal year 2011 projects.
Sec. 2108. Extension of authorizations of
certain fiscal year 2010 projects.
Sec. 2109. Limitation on construction of
cadet barracks at United States Military Academy, New York.
TITLE XXII—Navy military
construction
Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family
housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of
appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2012 project.
Sec. 2206. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2011 project.
Sec. 2207. One-year extension of
authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 project.
Sec. 2208. Two-year extension of
authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 project.
TITLE XXIII—Air force military
construction
Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family
housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of
appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Extension of authorizations of
certain fiscal year 2011 project.
TITLE XXIV—Defense agencies military
construction
Subtitle A—Defense agency
authorizations
Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation
projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of
appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Subtitle B—Chemical demilitarization
authorizations
Sec. 2411. Authorization of
appropriations, chemical demilitarization construction,
Defense-wide.
TITLE XXV—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Security Investment Program
Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of
appropriations, NATO.
TITLE XXVI—Guard and reserve forces
facilities
Subtitle A—Project authorizations and
authorization of appropriations
Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and
Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve
construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of
appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Subtitle B—Other matters
Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to
carry out certain fiscal year 2013 project.
Sec. 2612. Extension of authorization of
certain fiscal year 2011 project.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorization of
certain fiscal year 2011 project.
TITLE XXVII—Base realignment and closure
activities
Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations
for base realignment and closure activities funded through Department of
Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Precondition for any future
base realignment and closure round.
Sec. 2703. Report on 2005 base closure and
realignment joint basing initiative.
TITLE XXVIII—Military Construction General
Provisions
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
and Military Family Housing Changes
Sec. 2801. Modification of authorities to
fund military construction through payments-in-kind and to use residual value
payments-in-kind.
Sec. 2802. Extension and modification of
temporary, limited authority to use operation and maintenance funds for
construction projects in certain areas outside the United States.
Subtitle B—Real Property and Facilities
Administration
Sec. 2811. Authority for acceptance of
funds to cover administrative expenses associated with real property leases and
easements.
Sec. 2812. Application of cash payments
received for utilities and services.
Sec. 2813. Modification of authority to
enter into long-term contracts for receipt of utility services as consideration
for utility systems conveyances.
Sec. 2814. Acquisition of real property at
Naval Base Ventura County, California.
Subtitle C—Provisions Related to
Asia-Pacific Military Realignment
Sec. 2821. Realignment of Marines Corps
forces in Asia-Pacific Region.
Sec. 2822. Modification of reporting
requirements relating to Guam realignment.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
Sec. 2831. Land conveyance Joint Base
Pearl Harbor Hickam, Hawaii.
Sec. 2832. Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial
transfer.
Subtitle E—Other matters
Sec. 2841. Redesignation of the
Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies as the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific
Center for Security Studies.
DIVISION C—Department of Energy national
security authorizations and other authorizations
TITLE XXXI—Department of Energy national
security programs
Subtitle A—National Security Programs
Authorizations
Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security
Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental
cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense
activities.
Subtitle B—Program Authorizations,
Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 3111. Establishment of Director for
Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation in National Nuclear Security
Administration.
Sec. 3112. Plan for improvement and
integration of financial management of nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 3113. Certification of security
measures at atomic energy defense facilities.
Sec. 3114. Plan for incorporating exascale
computing into the stockpile stewardship program.
Sec. 3115. Integrated plutonium
strategy.
Sec. 3116. Authorization of modular
building strategy as an alternative to the replacement project for the
Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Building, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New
Mexico.
Sec. 3117. Increase in construction design
threshold.
Sec. 3118. Clarification of form of
submission of cost estimates on life extension programs and new nuclear
facilities.
Subtitle C—Reports
Sec. 3121. Assessment of nuclear
nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security
Administration.
Sec. 3122. Modification of reviews
relating to cost-benefit analyses of management and operating contracts of the
National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3123. Modification of deadline for
certain reports relating to program on scientific engagement for
nonproliferation.
Sec. 3124. Modification of certain reports
on cost containment for uranium capabilities replacement project.
Sec. 3125. Submission of interim report of
Congressional Advisory Panel on the Governance of the Nuclear Security
Enterprise.
Subtitle D—Technical
corrections
Sec. 3131. Technical corrections to the
National Nuclear Security Administration Act.
Sec. 3132. Technical corrections to the
Atomic Energy Defense Act.
TITLE XXXII—Defense Nuclear Facilities
Safety Board
Sec. 3201. Authorization.
TITLE XXXV—Maritime
Administration
Sec. 3501. Maritime
Administration.
DIVISION D—Funding Tables
Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in
funding tables.
TITLE XLI—Procurement
Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas
contingency operations.
TITLE XLII—Research, Development, Test, and
Evaluation
Sec. 4201. Research, development, test,
and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test,
and evaluation for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIII—Operation and
Maintenance
Sec. 4301. Operation and
maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for
overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIV—Military Personnel
Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas
contingency operations.
TITLE XLV—Other Authorizations
Sec. 4501. Other
authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for
overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLVI—Military Construction
Sec. 4601. Military
construction.
TITLE XLVII—Department of Energy National
Security Programs
Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national
security programs.
3.
Congressional
defense committees
For
purposes of this Act, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in
section 101(a)(16)
of title 10, United
States Code.
4.
Budgetary
effects of this Act
The
budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this
Act, jointly submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairmen
of the House and Senate Budget Committees, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage in the House acting first on the
conference report or amendment between the Houses.
A
Department of
Defense Authorizations
I
Procurement
A
Authorization of
Appropriations
101.
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for procurement for
the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide
activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4101.
C
Navy
Programs
121.
Multiyear
procurement authority for E–2D aircraft
(a)
Authority for
multiyear procurement
Subject to
section 2306b
of title 10,
United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into a multiyear
contract or contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2014 program year, for
the procurement of E–2D aircraft for the Department of the Navy.
(b)
Condition for
out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under
subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a
payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2014 is subject
to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such later fiscal
year.
122.
CVN–78 class
aircraft carrier program
(a)
Cost limitation
baseline for lead ship
Subsection (a)(1) of section 122 of the
John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law
109–364; 120 Stat. 2104) is amended by striking
$10,500,000,000
and inserting
$12,887,000,000
.
(b)
Additional
factor for adjustment of limitation amount
Subsection (b) of such
section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
The amounts of
increases or decreases in costs of that ship that are attributable to the
shipboard test
program.
.
(c)
Hull
number
Such section is further amended in subsections (a)(1),
(a)(2), and (b), by striking
CVN–21
and inserting
CVN–78
.
(d)
Requirements
for CVN–79
Such section is further amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
(e)
Requirements
for CVN–79
(1)
Quarterly cost
estimate
The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the
congressional defense committees on a quarterly basis a report setting forth
the most current cost estimate for CVN–79 (as estimated by the program
manager). Each cost estimate shall include the current percentage of completion
of the program, the total costs incurred, and an estimate of costs at
completion for ship construction, government-furnished equipment, and
engineering and support costs.
(2)
Limitation
If
any report under paragraph (1) includes a cost estimate for CVN–79 in excess of
the amount specified in subsection (a)(2), the Secretary may not make any
payment of fees under any cost-type or incentive fee contract associated with
CVN–79 until the program manager determines that the cost estimate for CVN–79
no longer exceeds the amount specified in subsection
(a)(2).
.
(e)
Conforming
amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as
follows:
122.
Adherence to
Navy cost estimates for CVN–78 class of aircraft
carriers
.
123.
Repeal of
requirements relating to procurement of future surface combatants
Section 125 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2214; 10
U.S.C. 7291 note) is repealed.
124.
Modification
of requirements to sustain Navy airborne intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance capabilities
Section 112 of the Ike Skelton National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat.
4152) is amended—
(1)
by striking
subsections (b) and (c); and
(2)
by adding after
subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Requirement To
maintain capabilities
(1)
Sustainment of
US Pacific Command
The Secretary of the Navy shall maintain
sufficient numbers of EP–3 Airborne Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System
II (ARIES II) Spiral 3 aircraft and Special Projects Aircraft version P909 to
support the wartime operational plans of the United States Pacific Command
using realistic basing assumptions.
(2)
Sustainment of
EP–3 aircraft for Global Force Management Allocation Plan
The
Secretary shall maintain sufficient numbers of EP–3 Airborne Reconnaissance
Integrated Electronic System II Spiral 3 aircraft and associated personnel to
sustain five such aircraft for allocation to the commanders of the combatant
commands under the Global Force Management Allocation Plan.
(3)
Intelligence
systems
The Secretary shall—
(A)
extend the Spiral
3 Joint Common Configuration upgrade to include the twelfth EP–3 Airborne
Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II Spiral 3 aircraft; and
(B)
correct
electronic intelligence system obsolescence deficiencies on the EP–3 Airborne
Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II Spiral 3 aircraft fleet and the
Special Projects Aircraft version P909 fleet.
(4)
Requirements of
combatant commands for airborne maritime ISR capabilities
The
Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council shall coordinate with the
commanders of the combatant commands (and, in particular, with the Commander of
the United States Pacific Command and the Commander of the United States
Special Operations Command) to determine requirements for the intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities and capacity to be provided by
the Special Projects Aircraft version P909 fleet.
(5)
Sustainment of
Special Projects Aircraft
The Secretary shall sustain sufficient
numbers of Special Projects Aircraft version P909 and associated personnel to
satisfy any requirements determined by the Chairman of the Joint Requirements
Oversight Council to be met through such aircraft under paragraph (4).
(6)
Termination of
certain requirements
(A)
The requirements in
paragraphs (1) and (2) shall expire with respect to the EP–3 Airborne
Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II Spiral 3 aircraft when the
multi-intelligence Broad Area Maritime System TRITON aircraft with signals
intelligence capabilities equal or greater than the EP–3 Airborne
Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II Spiral 3 aircraft reaches
Initial Operational Capability (IOC).
(B)
The requirement in paragraph (5) shall
expire when the Navy achieves Initial Operational Capability of a system
providing capabilities equal to or greater than the Special Projects Aircraft
version
P909.
.
125.
Littoral Combat
Ship
(a)
Report
required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chief of Naval Operations shall, in coordination with the
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the current concept of operations and expected
survivability attributes of each of the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) sea
frames.
(b)
Elements
The
report required by subsection (a) shall set forth the following:
(1)
A review of the
current concept of operations of the Littoral Combat Ship and a comparison of
such concept of operations with the original concept of operations of the
Littoral Combat Ship.
(2)
An assessment of
the ability of the Littoral Combat Ship to carry out the core missions of the
Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower of the Navy.
(3)
A comparison of
the combat capabilities for the three missions assigned to the Littoral Combat
Ship sea frames (anti-surface warfare, mine counter measures, anti-submarine
warfare) with the combat capabilities for each of such missions of the systems
the Littoral Combat Ship is replacing.
(4)
An assessment of
expected survivability of the Littoral Combat Ship sea frames in the context of
the planned employment of the Littoral Combat Ship as described in the concept
of operations.
(5)
The current
status of operational testing for the sea frames and the mission modules of the
Littoral Combat Ship.
(6)
An updated test
and evaluation masterplan for the Littoral Combat Ship.
(7)
A review of
survivability testing, modeling, and simulation conducted to date on the two
sea frames of the Littoral Combat Ship.
(8)
An updated
assessment of the endurance of the Littoral Combat Ship at sea with respect to
maintenance, fuel use, and sustainment of crew and mission modules.
(9)
An assessment of
the adequacy of current ship manning plans for the Littoral Combat Ship, and an
assessment the impact of increased manning on design changes and the endurance
of the Littoral Combat Ship.
(10)
A list of the
casualty reports to date on each Littoral Combat Ship, including a description
of the impact of such casualties on the design or ability of that Littoral
Combat Ship to perform assigned missions.
(c)
Form
The
report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in classified form and
unclassified form.
D
Air Force
Programs
131.
Tactical airlift
fleet of the Air Force
(a)
Consideration
of upgrades of certain aircraft in recapitalization of fleet
The Secretary of the Air Force shall
consider, as part of the recapitalization of the tactical airlift fleet of the
Air Force, upgrades to legacy C–130H aircraft designed to help such aircraft
meet the fuel efficiency goals of the Department of the Air Force and retention
of such aircraft, as so upgraded, in the tactical airlift fleet.
(b)
Manner of
upgrades
The Secretary shall ensure that upgrades to the C–130H
aircraft fleet are made in a manner that is proportional to the number of
C–130H aircraft in the force structure of the regular Air Force, the Air Force
Reserve, and the Air National Guard.
132.
Modification
of limitations on retirement of B–52 bomber aircraft
Subparagraph (C) of section 131(a)(1) of the
John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law
109–364; 120 Stat. 2111), as added by section 137(a)(1)(C) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat.
32), is amended by striking
in a common capability
configuration
.
133.
Repeal of
requirement for maintenance of certain retired KC–135E aircraft
Section 135(b) of the John Warner National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat.
2114), as amended by section 131 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4377), is
repealed.
134.
Prohibition of
procurement of unnecessary C–27J aircraft by the Air Force
The Secretary of the Air Force shall not
obligate or expend any funds for the procurement of C-27J aircraft not already
on contract as of June 1, 2013.
E
Joint and
Multiservice Matters
151.
Multiyear
procurement authority for C–130J aircraft
(a)
Authority for
multiyear procurement
Subject to
section 2306b
of title 10,
United States Code, the Secretary of the Air Force may enter into a multiyear
contract or contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2014 program year, for
the procurement of C–130J aircraft for the Department of the Air Force and the
Department of the Navy.
(b)
Condition for
out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under
subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a
payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2014 is subject
to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such later fiscal
year.
152.
Sense of
Senate on the United States helicopter industrial base
(a)
Findings
The
Senate makes the following findings:
(1)
Armed, cargo, and
utility helicopters provide the Department of Defense with critical
capabilities to support operations in the air, on land, and at sea.
(2)
According to the
Aerospace Industries Association of America’s 2012 Year-End Review and
Forecast, the United States military aircraft manufacturing sales declined by
2.4 percent between 2011 and 2012.
(3)
According to the
Aerospace Industries Association of America’s July 2012 report on the aerospace
industrial base, aviation industry employment of aerospace research and
development scientists and engineers numbering 140,000 in 1996 has declined to
40,000 in 2008.
(4)
Today, five
corporations manufacture all United States military helicopters.
(5)
Helicopter
program unpredictability and reduced defense procurement have a negative impact
on the ability to recruit and retain a qualified and capable aerospace
workforce thereby increasing risk for the helicopter industrial base’s ability
to design, build, and support the next generation of manned and unmanned
military helicopters.
(b)
Sense of
senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
armed, cargo, and
utility helicopters are instrumental to the Department of Defense’s ability to
execute the President’s National Security Strategy;
(2)
the Department of
Defense should take into consideration the health and viability of the military
helicopter industrial base in its analysis and decision making when building
its annual research, development, and acquisition budget request; and
(3)
the Department of
Defense and Congress should endeavor to maintain budget and program
predictability in order to attract and retain a skilled workforce to ensure the
technological capabilities required to sustain the preeminence of the United
States military helicopter fleets.
II
Research,
Development, Test, and Evaluation
A
Authorization of
Appropriations
201.
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the
Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation as
specified in the funding table in section 4201.
B
Program
Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations
211.
Conventional
Prompt Global Strike program
None of the funds authorized to be
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2014 for
the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation and
available for the Prompt Global Strike Capability Development program (PE
#64165D8Z) for the Conventional Prompt Global Strike (CPGS) program may be
obligated or expended for any activities relating to the development of a
submarine-launched capability under that program until 60 days after the date
on which the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy submits to the congressional
defense committees a report that addresses the policy considerations concerning
the ambiguity problems regarding the launch of Conventional Prompt Global
Strike missiles from submarine platforms.
212.
Modification
of requirements on biennial strategic plan for the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency
(a)
Elements of
strategic plan
Subsection (b) of
section 2352
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraph (1):
(1)
The strategic
objectives of that agency, and the linkage between such objectives and the
missions of the armed
forces.
;
(2)
in paragraph
(2)(A), by striking
goals
and inserting
objectives
;
(3)
by striking
paragraph (3);
(4)
by redesignating
paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(5)
in paragraph (3),
as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this subsection, by striking
for the
programs of that agency
and inserting
for programs demonstrating
military systems to one or more of the armed forces
.
(b)
Responsibility
for submittal of plan
Subsection (c) of such section is amended
by striking
Secretary of Defense shall
and inserting
Director shall, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics,
.
(c)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to biennial
strategic plans for the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency that are
submitted under
section 2352
of title 10, United States Code (as amended by
this section), after that date.
213.
Extension of
authority for program to award prizes for advanced technology
achievements
Section 2374a(f)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
September 30,
2013
and inserting
September 30, 2017
.
214.
Five-year
extension of pilot program to include technology protection features during
research and development of certain defense systems
Section 243(d) of the Ike Skelton National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended
by striking
October 1, 2015
and inserting
October 1,
2020
.
215.
Extension of
mechanisms to provide funds for defense laboratories for research and
development of technologies for military missions
Section 219(c) of the Duncan Hunter National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended
by striking
September 30, 2016
and inserting
September
30, 2020
.
216.
Sustainment or
replacement of Blue Devil Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
System
(a)
Authority for
sustainment
The Secretary of the Air Force may procure the
existing Blue Devil 1 Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Systems
(in this section referred to as
Blue Devil 1 aircraft
system
).
(b)
Requirement for
plan to replace in lieu of sustainment
If the Secretary elects
not to procure Blue Devil 1 aircraft systems under subsection (a), the
Secretary shall, not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a
plan to replace the capability provided by the Blue Devil 1 aircraft system
with a comparable or improved capability that effectively combines wide-area
motion imagery (WAMI) and near-vertical direction finding (NVDF) on the same
airborne platform to enable detection, identification, and immediate precision
location of targets through signals intelligence in order to permit tracking of
targets through the motion imaging system.
(c)
Requirements in
achievement of replacement capability
If the Secretary elects to
replace the Blue Devil 1 aircraft system, the Secretary shall—
(1)
coordinate with
the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command to ensure that
the replacement program for the Blue Devil 1 aircraft system meets the
operational needs of the United States Special Operations Command;
(2)
coordinate with
the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency to transfer to
the Air Force the technology developed under the Wide-Area Network Detection
program for operational integration of wide-area motion imagery and
near-vertical direction finding data for effective target detection,
identification, and tracking for incorporation, as practical and appropriate,
into the replacement program for the Blue Devil 1 aircraft system; and
(3)
make available,
to all companies that the Secretary determines are credible potential
competitors for the future provision of near-vertical direction finding
capabilities to the Air Force, the Blue Moon near-vertical direction finding
technology, including hardware, software, algorithms, and drawings developed by
a federally funded research and development center.
(d)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
C
Missile Defense
Programs
231.
Homeland
ballistic missile defense
(a)
Findings
Congress
makes the following findings:
(1)
The Ballistic
Missile Defense Review of February 2010 stated as its first policy priority
that
the United States will continue to defend the homeland against the
threat of limited ballistic missile attack
and that
an essential
element of the United States' homeland ballistic missile defense strategy is to
hedge against future uncertainties, including both the uncertainty of future
threat capabilities and the technical risks inherent to our own development
plans
.
(2)
The United States
currently has an operational Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system with
30 Ground-Based Interceptors (GBIs) deployed in Alaska and California,
protecting all of the United States, including the East Coast, against the
threat of limited ballistic missile attack from both North Korea and Iran.
During 2013, senior military and civilian defense leaders have stated
repeatedly that they have confidence in the ability of the current Ground-based
Midcourse Defense system to protect the United States from limited ballistic
missile attack from North Korea and Iran.
(3)
On March 15,
2013, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel announced a series of planned steps to
enhance United States homeland ballistic missile defense, to stay ahead of the
future missile threat from North Korea and Iran. These steps include the
deployment of 14 additional Ground-Based Interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska,
by 2017, a nearly 50 percent increase in the number of such interceptors
deployed by the United States.
(4)
In response to
provocative behavior and public threats by North Korea to launch missiles at
the United States, the Department of Defense took a number of actions to
enhance United States homeland missile defense capabilities, including
deployment of the Sea-Based X-band radar into the Pacific Ocean.
(5)
Before the March
15, 2013, announcement by Secretary of Defense Hagel, General Robert Kehler,
Commander of the United States Strategic Command, testified that
I am
confident that we can defend against a limited attack from Iran, although we
are not in the most optimum posture to do that today… it doesn’t provide total
defense today
. Shortly after the announcement by Secretary Hagel,
General Charles Jacoby, Commander of the United States Northern Command,
testified that
we have the capability of limited defense right now. And
I think it’s not optimum and I think that we’ve made some important steps
forward in what was rolled out. And I think we need to continue to assess the
threat and make sure we stay ahead of it
.
(6)
As its highest
near-term priority, the Missile Defense Agency is designing a correction to the
problem that caused a December 2010 flight test failure of the Ground-based
Midcourse Defense system using the Capability Enhancement-II (CE-II) model of
exo-atmospheric kill vehicle, and plans to demonstrate the correction through
flight testing, including an intercept test, before resuming production,
assembly, or refurbishment of additional Capability Enhancement-II kill
vehicles.
(7)
The Department of
Defense has a program to improve the performance and reliability of the
Ground-based Midcourse Defense system. According to Department officials, the
goal of the Ground-Based Interceptor reliability program is to double the
number of threat Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs) that the current
United States inventory of Ground-Based Interceptors could defeat, thereby
effectively doubling the capability of the current Ground-based Midcourse
Defense system.
(8)
The Missile
Defense Agency, working with the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation
and with United States Strategic Command, has developed a comprehensive
Integrated Master Test Plan (IMTP) for missile defense, with flight tests for
the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system planned through fiscal year 2023,
including salvo testing, multiple simultaneous engagement testing, and
operational testing. The current test plan includes an additional intercept
flight test using the Capability Enhancement-I kill vehicle, scheduled for
mid-2013, to demonstrate the reliability enhancements to Ground-Based
Interceptors quipped with that kill vehicle. The Director of Operational Test
and Evaluation reviewed and approved the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system
test plan and pace, including the plan to demonstrate the correction of the
Capability Enhancement-II kill vehicle.
(9)
In May, 2013,
Vice Admiral James Syring, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency,
testified to Congress that he is seeking to improve the performance and
reliability of the Ground-Based Interceptors, and to make the Ground-based
Midcourse Defense system
more operationally effective and
cost-effective
, including by improving its sensors, discrimination,
kill assessment, and battle management. He testified that these improvements
are
absolutely needed
and are
equally important to
interceptors
in terms of staying ahead of the threat.
(10)
As part of its
United States homeland defense hedging strategy, the Department of Defense has
already decided upon or implemented a number of actions to improve the missile
defense posture of the United States to stay ahead of the evolving threat of
Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles from North Korea and Iran. These include
the following actions:
(A)
As announced by
Secretary of Defense Hagel, the Department plans to deploy 14 additional
Ground-Based Interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska, by 2017, to deploy a second
AN/TPY-2 radar in Japan, and to pursue an advanced kill vehicle technology
development program.
(B)
The Missile
Defense Agency has completed construction of Missile Field-2 at Fort Greely,
Alaska, with eight extra silos available to deploy the additional operational
Ground-Based Interceptors announced by Secretary of Defense Hagel.
(C)
The Department
plans to refurbish the 6 prototype silos in Missile Field-1 at Fort Greely,
Alaska, to deploy the additional Ground-Based Interceptors announced by
Secretary of Defense Hagel.
(D)
The Missile
Defense Agency plans to deploy an in-flight interceptor communication system
data terminal at Fort Drum, New York, to enhance the performance of
Ground-Based Interceptors defending the eastern United States against possible
future missile threats from Iran.
(E)
The Missile
Defense Agency is continuing the development and testing of the two-stage
Ground-Based Interceptor for possible deployment in the future, if
needed.
(F)
The Missile
Defense Agency plans to upgrade the early warning radars in Clear, Alaska, and
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to enhance the ability to defend the United States
homeland against potential future Intercontinental Ballistic Missile threats
from North Korea and Iran.
(G)
The Missile
Defense Agency is evaluating sites for a possible future United States homeland
ballistic missile defense interceptor site in the United States, in compliance
with section 227 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
(
Public Law 112–239
), and will complete an Environmental Impact Statement for
the best suited sites by early 2016, in case the President decides to proceed
with the deployment of such a site.
(11)
As part of its
United States homeland missile defense hedging strategy, the Department of
Defense is considering additional options to enhance the future United States
posture and capability to defend the homeland, including the feasibility,
advisability, and affordability of deploying additional Ground-Based
Interceptors beyond the 14 Ground-Based Interceptors announced by Secretary of
Defense Hagel, including possibly at a missile defense site on the East Coast
of the United States.
(12)
In discussing
the possible benefits of a potential additional missile defense interceptor
site in the United States, General Jacoby testified that
exploring a
third site is an important next step. What a third site gives me, whether it’s
on the East Coast or an alternate location, would be increased battle space.
That means increased opportunity for me to engage threats from either Iran or
North Korea
.
(b)
Sense of
congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
it is a national
priority to defend the United States homeland against the threat of limited
ballistic missile attack from North Korea and Iran;
(2)
the currently
deployed Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, with 30 Ground-Based
Interceptors deployed in Alaska and California, provides protection of the
entire United States homeland, including the East Coast, against the threat of
limited ballistic missile attack from North Korea and Iran, although this
capability can and should be improved;;
(3)
it is essential
for the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system to achieve the levels of
reliability, availability, sustainability, and operational performance that
will allow it to continue providing protection of the United States homeland
against limited ballistic missile attack and to stay ahead of the threat as it
develops;
(4)
the Missile
Defense Agency should, as its highest priority, correct the problem that caused
the December 2010 Ground-based Midcourse Defense system flight test failure and
demonstrate the correction through flight testing, including a successful
intercept test, before resuming production of the Capability Enhancement-II
kill vehicle, in order to provide confidence that the system will work as
intended;
(5)
the Department of
Defense should continue to enhance the performance and reliability of the
Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, and enhance the capability of the
Ballistic Missile Defense System (including through improved sensors,
discrimination, kill assessment, exo-atmospheric kill vehicles, and battle
management) to provide improved capability to defend the United States homeland
against the evolving missile threats from North Korea and Iran;
(6)
the Missile
Defense Agency should continue its robust, rigorous, and realistic testing of
the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, as described in the Integrated
Master Test Plan, including salvo testing, multiple simultaneous engagement
testing, and operational testing;
(7)
the Department of
Defense has taken a number of prudent, affordable, cost-effective, and
operationally significant steps to hedge against the possibility of future
growth in the ballistic missile threat to the United States homeland from North
Korea and Iran, including the planned deployment of 14 additional Ground-Based
Interceptors; and
(8)
the Department of
Defense should continue to evaluate the evolving long-range missile threat from
North Korea and Iran and consider further possibilities for prudent,
affordable, cost-effective, and operationally significant steps to improve the
posture of the United States to defend the United States homeland against
possible future growth in the threat from North Korea and Iran.
(c)
Report on
potential future homeland ballistic missile defense options
(1)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a
report on potential future options for enhancing United States homeland
ballistic missile defense.
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of
the current assessment of the threat to the United States from long-range
ballistic missiles of North Korea and Iran, and an assessment of the projected
future threat through 2022, including a discussion of confidence levels and
uncertainties in such threat assessment.
(B)
A description of
the current United States homeland ballistic missile defense capability to
defend against the current threat of limited ballistic missile attack from
North Korea and Iran.
(C)
A description of
planned improvements to the current United States homeland ballistic missile
defense system, and the capability enhancements that would result from such
planned improvements, including—
(i)
deployment of 14
additional Ground-Based Interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska;
(ii)
missile defense
upgrades of early warning radars at Clear, Alaska, and Cape Cod,
Massachusetts;
(iii)
deployment of
an In-Flight Interceptor Communications System Data Terminal at Fort Drum, New
York; and
(iv)
improvements to
the effectiveness and reliability of the Ground-Based Interceptors and the
overall Ground-based Midcourse defense system.
(D)
A description of
potential additional future United States homeland ballistic missile defense
options, in addition to those described in subparagraph (C), if future
ballistic missile threats warrant deployment of such options to increase United
States homeland ballistic missile defense capabilities, including—
(i)
deployment of a
missile defense interceptor site on the East Coast;
(ii)
deployment of a
missile defense interceptor site in another location in the United States,
other than on the East Coast;
(iii)
expansion of
Missile Field-1 at Fort Greely, Alaska, to an operationally available 20-silo
configuration, to permit further interceptor deployments;
(iv)
deployment of
additional Ground-Based Interceptors for the Ground-based Midcourse Defense
system at Fort Greely, Alaska, Vandenberg Air Force Base, California, or
both;
(v)
deployment of
additional missile defense sensors, including possibly an X-band radar on the
East Coast or elsewhere, to enhance system tracking and discrimination;
(vi)
enhancements to
the operational effectiveness, cost effectiveness, and overall performance of
the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system through improvements to system
reliability, discrimination, battle management, exo-atmospheric kill vehicle
capability, and related functions;
(vii)
the potential
for future enhancement and deployment of the Standard Missile-3 Block IIA
interceptor to augment United States homeland ballistic missile defense;
(viii)
missile
defense options to defend the United States homeland against ballistic missiles
that could be launched from vessels on the seas around the United States,
including the Gulf of Mexico, or other ballistic missile threats that could
approach the United States from the south, should such a threat arise in the
future; and
(ix)
any other
options the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Evaluation of
potential options
For each option described under paragraph
(2)(D), the Secretary shall provide an evaluation of the advantages and
disadvantages of such option. The evaluation of each such option shall include
consideration of the following:
(A)
Technical
feasibility.
(B)
Operational
effectiveness and utility against the projected future threat.
(C)
Cost, cost
effectiveness, and affordability.
(D)
Schedule
considerations.
(E)
Agility to
respond to changes in future threat evolution.
(4)
Conclusions and
recommendations
Based on the evaluation required by paragraph
(3), the Secretary shall include in the report required by paragraph (1) such
findings, conclusions, and recommendations as the Secretary considers
appropriate for potential future options for United States homeland ballistic
missile defense.
(5)
Form
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
232.
Regional
ballistic missile defense
(a)
Findings
Congress
makes the following findings:
(1)
In the
introduction to the Ballistic Missile Defense Review of February 2010,
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates wrote that
I have made defending
against near-term regional threats a top priority of our missile defense plans,
programs and capabilities
.
(2)
In describing the
threat of regional ballistic missiles, the report of the Ballistic Missile
Defense Review stated that
there is no uncertainty about the existence
of regional threats. They are clear and present. The threat from short-range,
medium-range, and intermediate-range ballistic missiles (SRBMs, MRBMs, and
IRBMs) in regions where the United States deploys forces and maintains security
relationships is growing at a particularly rapid pace
.
(3)
North Korea has
hundreds of regional ballistic missiles, including short-range Scud missiles
and medium-range Nodong missiles. North Korea also has publicly displayed, but
not flight-tested, intermediate-range Musudan missiles. These regional missiles
can reach United States forces and allies in South Korea and Japan, and perhaps
Guam. In the spring of 2013, North Korea made public threats to use nuclear
weapons and ballistic missiles against South Korea, Japan, and Guam.
(4)
In response to
these threats from North Korea, the United States deployed Aegis Ballistic
Missile Defense ships, armed with Standard Missile–3 interceptors, to the
waters near the Korean Peninsula, and a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
(THAAD) battery to Guam. It also deployed the Sea-Based X-band missile defense
radar into the Pacific Ocean to enhance United States missile defense
capabilities. On March 15, 2013, Secretary of Defense Hagel announced a series
of planned steps to enhance missile defense, including the deployment of a
second AN/TPY–2 missile defense radar in Japan to improve regional and homeland
defense against North Korean missiles. As part of their response to the
provocations of North Korea, South Korea deployed vessels equipped with Aegis
missile defense radars, and Japan deployed its Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense
ships, equipped with Standard Missile–3 interceptors.
(5)
Iran has the
largest inventory of regional ballistic missiles in the Middle East, with
hundreds of missiles that can reach as far as southeastern Europe and all of
the Middle East, including Israel. Iran is improving its existing missiles and
developing new and longer-range regional missiles.
(6)
In September
2009, President Barack Obama announced that he had accepted the unanimous
recommendation of the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to
establish a European Phased Adaptive Approach (EPAA) to missile defense,
designed to protect deployed United States forces, allies, and partners in
Europe against the large and growing threat of ballistic missiles from
Iran.
(7)
In November 2010,
at the Lisbon Summit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) decided to
adopt the core mission of missile defense of its population, territory, and
forces. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed to enhance its missile
defense command and control system, the Active Layered Theater Ballistic
Missile Defense, to provide a North Atlantic Treaty Organization command and
control capability. This is in addition to voluntary contributions of missile
defense capabilities from individual nations.
(8)
During 2011, the
United States successfully implemented Phase 1 of the European Phased Adaptive
Approach, including deployment of an AN/TPY–2 radar in Turkey, deployment of an
Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense ship in the eastern Mediterranean Sea with
Standard Missile–3 Block IA interceptors, and the establishment of a missile
defense command and control system in Germany.
(9)
Phase 2 of the
European Phased Adaptive Approach is planned for deployment around 2015, and is
planned to include the deployment of Standard Missile–3 Block IB interceptors
on Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense ships and at an Aegis Ashore site in
Romania.
(10)
Phase 3 of the
European Phased Adaptive Approach is planned for deployment around 2018, and is
planned to include the deployment of Standard Missile–3 Block IIA interceptors
on Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense ships and at an Aegis Ashore site in
Poland.
(11)
At the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit in Chicago in May 2012, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization announced it had achieved an
interim
capability
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization missile defense
system, including initial capability of its Active Layered Theater Ballistic
Missile Defense system at a command and control facility in Germany.
(12)
The United
States has a robust program of missile defense cooperation with Israel,
including joint development of the Arrow Weapon System and the new Arrow–3
interceptor, designed to defend Israel against ballistic missiles from Iran.
These jointly developed missile defense systems are designed to be
interoperable with United States ballistic missile defenses, and these
interoperable systems are tested in large joint military exercises, such as
Austere Challenge
in 2012. The United States has also deployed
an AN/TPY–2 radar in Israel to enhance missile defense against missiles from
Iran.
(13)
The United
States is working with the nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council on enhanced
national and regional missile defense capabilities against the growing missile
threat from Iran. As part of this effort, the United Arab Emirates plans to
purchase two Terminal High Altitude Area Defense batteries, as well as other
equipment. During 2012, the United States deployed an AN/TPY–2 radar in the
United States Central Command area of responsibility to enhance missile defense
capability of forward-deployed United States forces, allies, and partners
against missiles from Iran.
(14)
The United
States has a strong program of missile defense cooperation with Japan,
including the co-development of the Standard Missile–3 Block IIA interceptor
for the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense system, intended to be deployed in
Phase 3 of the European Phased Adaptive Approach, the Japanese fleet of Aegis
Ballistic Missile Defense ships using Standard Missile–3 Block IA interceptors,
and the United States deployment of two AN/TPY–2 radars in Japan.
(b)
Sense of
congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the threat from
regional ballistic missiles, particularly from North Korea and Iran, is serious
and growing, and puts at risk forward-deployed United States forces, allies,
and partners in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and the Middle East;
(2)
the Department of
Defense has an obligation to provide force protection of forward-deployed
United States forces and facilities from regional ballistic missile
attack;
(3)
the United States
has an obligation to meet its security commitments to its allies, including
ballistic missile defense commitments;
(4)
the Department of
Defense has a balanced program of investment and capabilities to provide for
both homeland defense and regional defense against ballistic missiles,
consistent with the Ballistic Missile Defense Review and with the prioritized
and integrated needs of the commanders of the combatant commands;
(5)
elements of
United States regional missile defenses enhance and enable the homeland defense
capabilities of the United States, including forward-deployed radars and
defense of critical forward-deployed missile defense systems;
(6)
the European
Phased Adaptive Approach to missile defense is an appropriate and prudent
response to the existing and growing ballistic missile threat from Iran to
forward-deployed United States forces, allies, and partners in Europe;
(7)
the Department of
Defense should, as a high priority, continue to develop, test, and plan to
deploy Phases 2 and 3 of the European Phased Adaptive Approach, including the
planned Aegis Ashore sites in Romania and Poland;
(8)
the Department of
Defense should also continue with its other phased and adaptive regional
missile defense efforts tailored to the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific
region;
(9)
European members
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are making valuable contributions to
missile defense in Europe, by hosting elements of United States missile defense
systems on their territories, through individual national contributions to
missile defense capability, and by collective funding and development of the
Active Layered Theater Ballistic Missile Defense system;
(10)
the actions
taken by the Department of Defense to improve its regional missile defense
posture in response to the provocative actions and threats of North Korea were
prudent and appropriate and demonstrated the flexible and adaptive nature of
its regional missile defense capabilities, which allows for surge deployments
to meet regional contingencies in a timely manner; and
(11)
Japan and South
Korea are making notable progress in enhancing their missile defense
capabilities, in partnership with the United States, to protect against
regional missiles from North Korea.
(c)
Report
(1)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on the status and progress of regional missile defense
programs and efforts.
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of
the overall risk assessment from the most recent Global Ballistic Defense
Assessment of regional missile defense capabilities relative to meeting the
operational needs of the commanders of the geographic combatant commands,
including the need for force protection of United States forward-deployed
forces and capabilities and for defense of allies and partners.
(B)
An assessment
whether the currently planned European Phased Adaptive Approach and other
planned regional missile defense approaches and capabilities of the United
States meet the integrated priorities of the commanders of the geographic
combatant commands in an affordable and balanced manner.
(C)
A description of
the progress made in the development and testing of elements of systems
intended for deployment in Phases 2 and 3 of the European Phased Adaptive
Approach, including the Standard Missile–3 Block IB and IIA interceptors and
the Aegis Ashore system.
(D)
A description of
the manner in which elements of regional missile defense architectures, such as
forward-based X-band radars in Japan, Israel, Turkey, and the area of
responsibility of the United States Central Command, contribute to the
enhancement of the homeland defense of the United States.
(E)
A description of
the manner in which enhanced integration of offensive military capabilities and
defensive missile defense capabilities will fit into regional missile defense
planning and force structure assessments.
(3)
Form
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
233.
Missile
defense cooperation with Russia
(a)
Findings
Congress
makes the following findings:
(1)
For more than a
decade, the United States and Russia have discussed a variety of options for
cooperation on shared early warning and ballistic missile defense. For example,
on May 1, 2001, President George W. Bush spoke of a
new cooperative
relationship
with Russia and said
it should be premised on
openness, mutual confidence and real opportunities for cooperation, including
the area of missile defense. It should allow us to share information so that
each nation can improve its early warning capability, and its capability to
defend its people and territory. And perhaps one day, we can even cooperate in
a joint defense
.
(2)
Section 1231 of
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as
enacted into law by
Public Law 106–398
; 1654A–329) authorized the Department of
Defense to establish in Russia a
joint center for the exchange of data
from systems to provide early warning of launches of ballistic missiles and for
notification of launches of such missiles
, also known as the Joint Data
Exchange Center (JDEC).
(3)
On March 31,
2008, Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England stated that
we have
offered Russia a wide-ranging proposal to cooperate on missile
defense—everything from modeling and simulation, to data sharing, to joint
development of a regional missile defense architecture—all designed to defend
the United States, Europe, and Russia from the growing threat of Iranian
ballistic missiles. An extraordinary series of transparency measures have also
been offered to reassure Russia. Despite some Russian reluctance to sign up to
these cooperative missile defense activities, we continue to work toward this
goal
.
(4)
The February 2010
report of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review established as one of its
central policy pillars that increased international missile defense cooperation
is in the national security interest of the United States and, with regard to
cooperation with Russia, the United States
is pursuing a broad agenda
focused on shared early warning of missile launches, possible technical
cooperation, and even operational cooperation
.
(5)
At the November
2010 Lisbon Summit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) decided to
develop a missile defense system to
protect NATO European populations,
territory and forces
and also to seek cooperation with Russia on
missile defense. In its Lisbon Summit Declaration, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization reaffirmed its readiness to
invite Russia to explore
jointly the potential for linking current and planned missile defense systems
at an appropriate time in mutually beneficial ways
. The new NATO
Strategic Concept adopted at the Lisbon Summit stated that
we will
actively seek cooperation on missile defense with Russia
, that
NATO-Russia cooperation is of strategic importance
, and that
the security of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Russia is
intertwined
.
(6)
In a December 18,
2010, letter to the leadership of the Senate, President Obama wrote that the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
invited Russia to cooperate on
missile defense, which could lead to adding Russian capabilities to those
deployed by NATO to enhance our common security against common threats. The
Lisbon Summit thus demonstrated that the Alliance's missile defenses can be
strengthened by improving NATO-Russian relations. This comes even as we have
made clear that the system we intend to pursue with Russia will not be a joint
system, and it will not in any way limit United States' or NATO's missile
defense capabilities. Effective cooperation with Russia could enhance the
overall efficiency of our combined territorial missile defenses, and at the
same time provide Russia with greater security
.
(7)
Section 221(a)(3)
of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011
(
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4167) states that it is the sense of Congress
to support the efforts of the United States Government and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization to pursue cooperation with the Russian Federation
on ballistic missile defense relative to Iranian missile
threats
.
(8)
In a speech in
Russia on March 21, 2011, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates cited
the
NATO-Russian decision to cooperate on defense against ballistic missiles. We've
disagreed before, and Russia still has uncertainties about the European Phased
Adaptive Approach, a limited system that poses no challenges to the large
Russian nuclear arsenal. However, we've mutually committed to resolving these
difficulties in order to develop a roadmap toward truly effective
anti-ballistic missile collaboration. This collaboration may include exchanging
launch information, setting up a joint data fusion center, allowing greater
transparency with respect to our missile defense plans and exercises, and
conducting a joint analysis to determine areas of future
cooperation
.
(9)
In testimony to
the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on April 13, 2011, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Missile Defense Policy Bradley
H. Roberts stated that the United States has been pursuing a Defense Technology
Cooperation Agreement with Russia since 2004, and that such an agreement is
necessary
for the safeguarding of sensitive information in support of
cooperation
on missile defense, and to
provide the legal
framework for undertaking cooperative efforts
.
(10)
In a March 2012
answer to a question from the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on
missile defense cooperation with Russia, Acting Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy Jim Miller wrote that
I support U.S.-Russian cooperation on
missile defenses first and foremost because it could improve the effectiveness
of U.S. and NATO missile defenses, thereby improving the protection of the
United States, our forces overseas, and our Allies. Missile defense cooperation
with Russia is in the security interests of the United States, NATO, and
Russia, first and foremost because it could strengthen capabilities across
Europe to intercept Iranian missiles
. He also wrote that
[t]he
United States has pursued missile defense cooperation with Russia with the
clear understanding that we would not accept constraints on missile defense,
and that we would undertake necessary qualitative and quantitative improvements
to meet U.S. Security needs
.
(11)
In February
2012, an international group of independent experts known as the Euro-Atlantic
Security Initiative issued a report proposing missile defense cooperation
between the United States (with its North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies)
and Russia. The group, whose leaders included Stephen Hadley, the National
Security Advisor to President George W. Bush, proposed that the nations share
satellite and radar early warning data at joint cooperation centers in order to
improve their ability to detect, track, and defeat medium-range and
intermediate-range ballistic missiles from the Middle East.
(12)
In a letter
dated April 13, 2012, Robert Nabors, Assistant to the President and Director of
the Office of Legislative Affairs, wrote that
it is Administration
policy that we will only provide information to Russia that will enhance the
effectiveness of our missile defenses. The Administration will not provide
Russia with sensitive information that would in any way compromise our national
security, including hit-to-kill technology and interceptor
telemetry
.
(13)
The May 20,
2012, NATO Chicago Summit Declaration included the following statement:
Given our shared security interests with Russia, we remain committed to
cooperation on missile defense in the spirit of mutual trust and reciprocity,
such as the recent [NATO-Russia Council] Theatre Missile Defense Exercise.
Through ongoing efforts in the NATO-Russia Council, we seek to determine how
independent NATO and Russian missile defense systems can work together to
enhance European security. We look forward to establishing the proposed joint
NATO-Russia Missile Data Fusion Centre and the joint Planning Operations Centre
to cooperate on missile defense. We propose to develop a transparency regime
based upon a regular exchange of information about the current respective
missile defense capabilities of NATO and Russia
.
(14)
The United
States currently has agreements and programs of cooperation on shared early
warning with eight nations in addition to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. The United States has developed procedures and mechanisms for
sharing early warning information with partner nations while ensuring the
protection of sensitive United States information.
(15)
Russia and the
United States each have ballistic missile launch early warning and detection
and tracking sensors that could contribute to and enhance each others' ability
to detect, track, and defend against ballistic missile threats from
Iran.
(16)
The Obama
Administration has provided regular briefings to Congress on its discussions
with Russia on possible missile defense cooperation.
(b)
Sense of
Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
it is in the
national security interest of the United States to pursue efforts at missile
defense cooperation with Russia that would enhance the security of the United
States, its North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, and Russia, particularly
against missile threats from Iran;
(2)
the United States
should pursue ballistic missile defense cooperation with Russia on both a
bilateral basis and a multilateral basis with its North Atlantic Treaty
Organization allies, particularly through the NATO-Russia Council, when it is
in the national security interests of the United States to do so;
(3)
missile defense
cooperation with Russia should not
in any way limit United States' or
NATO's missile defense capabilities
, as acknowledged in the December
18, 2010, letter from President Obama to the leadership of the Senate, and
should be mutually beneficial and reciprocal in nature;
(4)
the United States
should not provide Russia with sensitive missile defense information that would
in any way compromise United States national security, including
hit-to-kill
technology and interceptor telemetry;
(5)
the United States
should pursue missile defense cooperation with Russia in a manner that ensures
that—
(A)
United States
classified information is appropriately safeguarded and protected from
unauthorized disclosure;
(B)
prior to entering
into missile defense technology cooperation projects, the United States enters
into a Defense Technology Cooperation Agreement with Russia that establishes
the legal framework for a broad spectrum of potential cooperative defense
projects; and
(C)
such cooperation
does not limit the missile defense capabilities of the United States or its
North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies; and
(6)
the sovereignty
of the United States and its ability to unilaterally pursue its own missile
defense program shall be protected.
(c)
Limitation on
use of funds To provide Russian Federation access to certain missile defense
information
No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise
made available for fiscal year 2014 for the Department of Defense may be used
to provide the Russian Federation with sensitive missile defense information
that would in any way compromise United States national security, including
hit-to-kill
technology and telemetry data for missile defense
interceptors or target vehicles.
234.
Additional
missile defense radar for the protection of the United States homeland
(a)
In
general
The Missile Defense Agency shall deploy an X-band radar,
or other comparable sensor, at a location optimized to support the defense of
the United States homeland against long-range ballistic missile threats.
(b)
Funding
Of
the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 201 for fiscal year 2014
for the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation,
Defense-wide, for the Missile Defense Agency for BMD Sensors (PE 63884C) as
specified in the funding table in section 4201, $30,000,000 is available for
initial costs toward deployment of the radar required by subsection (a).
235.
Evaluation of
options for future ballistic missile defense sensor architectures
(a)
Evaluation
required
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an evaluation of
options and alternatives for future sensor architectures for ballistic missile
defense in order to enhance United States ballistic missile defense
capabilities.
(2)
Scope of
evaluation
In conducting the evaluation, the Secretary shall
consider a wide range of options for a future sensor architecture for ballistic
missile defense, including options for future development, integration,
exploitation, and deployment of sensor systems and assets.
(3)
Objective
The
objective of the evaluation shall be to identify one or more future sensor
architectures for ballistic missile defense that will result in an improvement
of the performance of the Ballistic Missile Defense System in a cost-effective,
operationally effective, timely, and affordable manner.
(b)
Elements To be
evaluated
The evaluation required by subsection (a) shall include
a consideration of the following:
(1)
Sensor
types
The types of sensors as follows:
(A)
Radar.
(B)
Infrared.
(C)
Optical and
electro-optical.
(D)
Directed
energy.
(2)
Sensor
modes
Deployment modes of sensors as follows:
(A)
Ground-based
sensors.
(B)
Sea-based
sensors.
(C)
Airborne
sensors.
(D)
Space-based
sensors.
(3)
Sensor
functions
Missile defense-related sensor functions as
follows:
(A)
Detection.
(B)
Tracking.
(C)
Characterization.
(D)
Classification.
(E)
Discrimination.
(F)
Debris
mitigation.
(G)
Kill
assessment.
(4)
Sensor
architecture capabilities
Maximization or improvement of
sensor-related capabilities as follows:
(A)
Handling of
increasing raid sizes.
(B)
Precision
tracking of threat missiles.
(C)
Providing
fire-control quality tracks of evolving threat missiles.
(D)
Enabling
launch-on-remote and engage-on-remote capabilities.
(E)
Discriminating
lethal objects (warheads) from other objects.
(F)
Effectively
assessing the results of engagements.
(G)
Enabling enhanced
shot doctrine.
(c)
Report
(1)
In
general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees
a report setting forth the results of the evaluation required by subsection
(a). The report shall include such findings, conclusions, and recommendations
on future sensor architectures for ballistic missile defense as the Secretary
considers appropriate in light of the evaluation.
(2)
Form
The
report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified
annex.
236.
Prohibition on
the use of funds for the MEADS program
None of the funds authorized to be
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2014 for
the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the medium extended
air defense system.
D
Reports and Other
Matters
251.
Annual
Comptroller General of the United States report on the acquisition program for
the VXX Presidential Helicopter
(a)
Annual GAO
review
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct
on an annual basis a review of the acquisition program for the VXX Presidential
Helicopter aircraft.
(b)
Annual
reports
(1)
In
general
Not later than March 1 each year, the Comptroller General
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the review of
the acquisition program for the VXX Presidential Helicopter aircraft conducted
under subsection (a) during the preceding year.
(2)
Elements
Each
report under paragraph (1) shall include such matters as the Comptroller
General considers appropriate to fully inform the congressional defense
committees of the stage of the acquisition process for the VXX Presidential
Helicopter aircraft covered by the review described in such report. Such
matters may include the following:
(A)
The extent to
which the acquisition program for the VXX Presidential Helicopter aircraft is
meeting cost, schedule, and performance goals.
(B)
The progress and
results of developmental testing.
(C)
An assessment of
the acquisition strategy for the program, including whether the strategy is
consistent with acquisition management best practices identified by the
Comptroller General for purposes of the program.
(c)
Sunset
The
requirements in this section shall cease upon the earlier of—
(1)
the date on which
the Navy awards a contract for full rate production for the VXX Presidential
Helicopter aircraft; or
(2)
the date on which
the acquisition program for the VXX Presidential Helicopter aircraft is
terminated.
III
Operation and
Maintenance
A
Authorization of
appropriations
301.
Operation and
maintenance funding
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as
specified in the funding table in section 4301.
B
Logistics and
sustainment
311.
Sustainment of
critical manufacturing capabilities within Army arsenals
(a)
Review
(1)
Manufacturing
requirements
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the
military services and defense agencies, shall review current and expected
manufacturing requirements across the military services and defense agencies to
identify critical manufacturing competencies and supplies, components, end
items, parts, assemblies, and sub-assemblies for which there is no or limited
domestic commercial source and which are appropriate for manufacturing within
an arsenal owned by the United States in order to support critical
manufacturing capabilities.
(2)
Mechanisms for
determining manufacturing capabilities
The Secretary shall review
mechanisms within the Department for ensuring that appropriate consideration is
given to the unique manufacturing capabilities of arsenals owned by the United
States to fulfill manufacturing requirements of the Department of Defense for
which there is no or limited domestic commercial capability.
(b)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report including the results of the reviews conducted under
subsection (a) and a description of actions planned to support critical
manufacturing capabilities within arsenals owned by the United States.
312.
Strategic
policy for prepositioned materiel and equipment
(a)
Modifications
to strategic policy
Section 2229(a)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended to read as follows:
(a)
Policy
required
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a strategic
policy on the programs of the Department of Defense for prepositioned materiel
and equipment. Such policy shall take into account national security threats,
strategic mobility, service requirements, and the requirements of the combatant
commands, and shall address how the Department's prepositioning programs, both
ground and afloat, align with national defense strategies and departmental
priorities.
(2)
Elements
The
strategic policy required under paragraph (1) shall include the following
elements:
(A)
Overarching
strategic guidance concerning planning and resource priorities that link the
Department of Defense's current and future needs for prepositioned stocks, such
as desired responsiveness, to evolving national defense objectives.
(B)
A description of
the Department's vision for prepositioning programs and the desired end
state.
(C)
Specific interim
goals demonstrating how the vision and end state will be achieved.
(D)
A description of
the strategic environment, requirements for, and challenges associated with
prepositioning.
(E)
Metrics for how
the Department will evaluate the extent to which prepositioned assets are
achieving defense objectives.
(F)
A framework for
joint departmental oversight that reviews and synchronizes the military
services’ prepositioning strategies to minimize potentially duplicative efforts
and maximize efficiencies in prepositioned materiel and equipment across the
Department of Defense.
(3)
Joint
oversight
The Secretary of Defense shall establish joint
oversight of the military services’ prepositioning efforts to maximize
efficiencies across the Department of
Defense.
.
(b)
Implementation
plan
(1)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a plan for implementation of the prepositioning strategic policy
required under
section 2229(a)
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by
subsection (a).
(2)
Elements
The
implementation plan required under paragraph (1) shall include the following
elements:
(A)
Detailed guidance
for how the Department of Defense will achieve the vision, end state, and goals
outlined in the strategic policy.
(B)
A comprehensive
list of the Department's prepositioned material and equipment programs.
(C)
A detailed
description of how the plan will be implemented.
(D)
A schedule with
milestones for the implementation of the plan.
(E)
An assignment of
roles and responsibilities for the implementation of the plan.
(F)
A description of
the resources required to implement the plan.
(G)
A description of
how the plan will be reviewed and assessed to monitor progress.
(c)
Comptroller
General report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall review the implementation plan submitted under subsection
(b) and the prepositioning strategic policy required under section 2229(a) of
title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), and submit to the
congressional defense committees a report describing the findings of such
review and including any additional information relating to the propositioning
strategic policy and plan that the Comptroller General determines
appropriate.
313.
Extension and
modification of authority for airlift transportation at Department of Defense
rates for non-Department of Defense Federal cargoes
Section 2642(a)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1)
in the matter
preceding paragraph (1), by striking
airlift
and inserting
transportation
; and
(2)
in paragraph
(3)—
(A)
by striking
October 28, 2014
and inserting
September 30,
2019
;
(B)
by striking
airlift
both places it appears and inserting
transportation
;
(C)
by inserting
, and for military transportation services provided in support of
foreign military sales,
after
Department of Defense
;
and
(D)
by striking
air industry
and inserting
transportation
industry
.
C
Readiness
321.
Modification
of authorities on prioritization of funds for equipment readiness and strategic
capability
(a)
Inclusion of
Marine Corps in requirements
Section 323 of the John Warner
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
10 U.S.C. 229
note) is
amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a), by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph
(2):
(2)
the Secretary of
the Army to meet the requirements of the Army, and the Secretary of the Navy to
meet the requirements of the Marine Corps, for that fiscal year, in addition to
the requirements under paragraph (1), for the reconstitution of equipment and
materiel in prepositioned stocks in accordance with requirements under the
policy or strategy implemented under the guidelines in section 2229 of title
10, United States Code.
;
and
(2)
in subsection
(b)(2), by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new
subparagraph (B):
(B)
the Army and the
Marine Corps for the reconstitution of equipment and materiel in prepositioned
stocks.
.
(b)
Repeal of
requirement for annual Army report and GAO review
Such section is
further amended by striking subsections (c) through (f) and inserting the
following new subsection (c):
(c)
Contingency
operation defined
In this section, the term
contingency
operation
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(13) of title
10, United States
Code.
.
322.
Strategic
policy for the retrograde, reconstitution, and replacement of operating forces
used to support overseas contingency operations
(a)
Establishment
of policy
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a policy setting
forth the programs and priorities of the Department of Defense for the
retrograde, reconstitution, and replacement of units and materiel used to
support overseas contingency operations. The policy shall take into account
national security threats, the requirements of the combatant commands, the
current readiness of the operating forces of the military departments, and risk
associated with strategic depth and the time necessary to reestablish required
personnel, equipment, and training readiness in such operating forces.
(2)
Elements
The
policy required under paragraph (1) shall include the following
elements:
(A)
Establishment and
assignment of responsibilities and authorities within the Department for
oversight and execution of the planning, organization, and management of the
programs to reestablish the readiness of redeployed operating forces.
(B)
Guidance
concerning priorities, goals, objectives, timelines, and resources to
reestablish the readiness of redeployed operating forces in support of national
defense objectives and combatant command requirements.
(C)
Oversight
reporting requirements and metrics for the evaluation of Department of Defense
and military department progress on restoring the readiness of redeployed
operating forces in accordance with the policy required under paragraph
(1).
(D)
A framework for
joint departmental reviews of military services’ annual budgets proposed for
retrograde, reconstitution, or replacement activities, including an assessment
of the strategic and operational risk assumed by the proposed levels of
investment across the Department of Defense.
(b)
Implementation
plan
(1)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a plan for implementation of the policy required under this
section.
(2)
Elements
The
implementation plan required under paragraph (1) shall include the following
elements:
(A)
The assignment of
responsibilities and authorities for oversight and execution of the planning,
organization, and management of the programs to reestablish the readiness of
redeployed operating forces.
(B)
Establishment of
priorities, goals, objectives, timelines, and resources to reestablish the
readiness of redeployed operating forces in support of national defense
objectives and combatant command requirements.
(C)
A description of
how the plan will be implemented, including a schedule with milestones to meet
the goals of the plan.
(D)
An estimate of
the resources by military service and by year required to implement the plan,
including an assessment of the risks assumed in the plan.
(3)
Updates
Not
later than one year after submitting the plan required under paragraph (1), and
annually thereafter for two years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees an update on progress toward meeting the goals
of the plan.
(c)
Comptroller
general report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for three years, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall review the implementation plan submitted
under subsection (b) and the policy required by subsection (a), and submit to
the congressional defense committees a report describing the findings of such
review and progress made toward meeting the goals of the plan and including any
additional information relating to the policy and plan that the Comptroller
General determines appropriate.
D
Reports
331.
Strategy for
improving asset visibility and in-transit visibility
(a)
Strategy and
implementation plans
(1)
In
general
Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive strategy
for improving asset visibility tracking and in-transit visibility across the
Department of Defense, together with the plans of the military departments for
implementing the strategy.
(2)
Elements
The
strategy and implementation plans required under paragraph (1) shall include
the following elements:
(A)
A comprehensive
statement that summarizes the main purpose of the strategy.
(B)
A description of
the issues to be addressed by the strategy, the scope of the strategy, and the
process by which it was developed.
(C)
The overarching
goals and objectives that address the overall results desired from
implementation of the strategy.
(D)
A description of
steps to achieve those results, as well as milestones and performance measures
to gauge results.
(E)
An estimate of
the costs associated with executing the plan, and the sources and types of
resources and investments, including skills, technology, human capital,
information, and other resources, required to meet the goals and
objectives.
(F)
A description of
roles and responsibilities for managing and overseeing the implementation of
the strategy and the establishment of mechanisms for multiple stakeholders to
coordinate their efforts throughout implementation and make necessary
adjustments to the strategy based on performance.
(G)
A description of
a description of key factors external to the Department of Defense and beyond
its control that could significantly affect the achievement of the long-term
goals contained in the strategy.
(b)
Comptroller
general report
Not later than one year after the strategy is
submitted under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report setting forth an assessment of the
extent to which the strategy and its accompanying implementation plans—
(1)
include the
elements set forth under subsection (a)(2);
(2)
align to achieve
the overarching asset visibility and in-transit visibility goals and objectives
of the Department of Defense; and
(3)
have been
implemented.
332.
Changes to
quarterly reports on personnel and unit readiness
Section 482
of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a)—
(A)
by striking
The report for a quarter
and inserting
Each
report
; and
(B)
by striking
(e), and (f)
and inserting
(f), and (g), and the reports
for the second and fourth quarters of a calendar year shall also contain the
information required by subsection (e)
;
(2)
in subsection
(d)—
(A)
in paragraph
(1)—
(i)
in
subparagraph (A), by striking
, including the extent
and all
that follows through the period at the end and inserting the following:
, including an assessment of the manning of units (authorized versus
assigned numbers of personnel) for units not scheduled for deployment and the
timing of the arrival of personnel into units preparing for
deployments.
; and
(ii)
in
subparagraph (B), by inserting
unit
before
personnel
strength
;
(B)
by amending
paragraph (2) to read as follows:
(2)
Personnel
turbulence
(A)
Recruit
quality.
(B)
Personnel
assigned to a unit but not trained for the level of assigned responsibility or
mission.
(C)
Fitness for
deployment.
(D)
Recruiting and
retention
status.
;
(C)
by striking
paragraph (3) and redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3); and
(D)
in paragraph (3),
as redesignated by subparagraph (C), by striking
Training
commitments
and inserting
Mission rehearsals
;
(3)
by redesignating
subsections (e), (f), and (g) as subsections (f), (g), and (h),
respectively;
(4)
by inserting
after subsection (d)(3), as redesignated by paragraph (1)(C), the following new
subsection:
(e)
Logistics
indicators
The reports for the second and fourth quarters of a
calendar year shall also include information regarding the active components of
the armed forces (and an evaluation of such information) with respect to each
of the following logistics indicators:
;
and
(5)
in subsection
(e), as designated by paragraph (4)—
(A)
by redesignating
paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3),
respectively;
(B)
in paragraph (1),
as redesignated by subparagraph (A), by striking subparagraph (E); and
(C)
in paragraph (2),
as so redesignated—
(i)
in
subparagraph (A), by striking
Maintenance
and inserting
Depot maintenance
; and
(ii)
by
inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new subparagraph:
(B)
Equipment not
available due to a lack of supplies or
parts.
.
333.
Revision to
requirement for annual submission of information regarding information
technology capital assets
Section 351(a)(1) of the Bob Stump National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (
Public Law 107–314
; 10 U.S.C.
221 note) is amended by striking
in excess of $30,000,000
and
all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
(as
computed in fiscal year 2000 constant dollars) in excess of $32,000,000 or an
estimated total cost for the future-years defense program for which the budget
is submitted (as computed in fiscal year 2000 constant dollars) in excess of
$378,000,000, for all expenditures, for all increments, regardless of the
appropriation and fund source, directly related to the assets definition,
design, development, deployment, sustainment, and disposal.
.
334.
Modification
of annual corrosion control and prevention reporting requirements
Section 903(b)(5) of the Duncan Hunter
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 10
U.S.C. 2228 note) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(5)
; and
(2)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
The report required under
subparagraph (A) shall—
(i)
provide a clear linkage between the
corrosion control and prevention program of the military department and the
overarching goals and objectives of the long-term corrosion control and
prevention strategy developed and implemented by the Secretary of Defense under
section 2228(d)
of title 10, United States Code; and
(ii)
include performance measures to
ensure that the corrosion control and prevention program is achieving the goals
and objectives described in clause
(i).
.
E
Limitations and
extension of authority
341.
Limitation on
funding for United States Special Operations Command National Capital
Region
(a)
Limitation
None
of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made
available for fiscal year 2014 for the Department of Defense may be obligated
or expended for the United States Special Operations Command National Capital
Region (USSOCOM–NCR) until 30 days after the Secretary of Defense submits to
the congressional defense committees a report on the USSOCOM–NCR.
(b)
Report
elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include
the following elements:
(1)
A description of
the purpose of the USSOCOM-NCR.
(2)
A description of
the activities to be performed by the USSOCOM–NCR.
(3)
An explanation of
the impact of the USSOCOM-NCR on existing activities at United States Special
Operations Command headquarters.
(4)
A detailed, by
fiscal year, breakout of the staffing and other costs associated with the
USSOCOM-NCR over the future years defense program.
(5)
A description of
the relationship between the USSOCOM-NCR and the Office of the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict.
(6)
A description of
the role of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and
Low-Intensity Conflict in providing oversight of USSOCOM-NCR activities.
(7)
Any other matters
the Secretary determines appropriate.
342.
Limitation on
funding for Regional Special Operations Coordination Centers
(a)
Limitation
None
of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for operation
and maintenance, Defense-wide, may be obligated or expended for the
establishment of Regional Special Operations Coordination Centers
(RSCCs).
(b)
Report
required
(1)
In
general
Not later than September 30, 2013, the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict, in
coordination with the Commander of the United States Special Operations
Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the
establishment of RSCCs.
(2)
Elements
The
report required under paragraph (1) shall outline, at a minimum—
(A)
the requirement
and justification for the establishment of RSCCs;
(B)
the number and
locations of planned RSCCs;
(C)
the projected
cost to establish and maintain the proposed RSCCs in future years;
(D)
the relevance to
and coordination with other multilateral engagement activities and academic
institutes supported by the geographic combatant commanders and the Department
of State; and
(E)
any legislative
authorities that may be needed to establish RSCCs.
343.
Limitation on
availability of funds for Trans Regional Web Initiative (TRWI)
None of the funds authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal year 2014 by section 301 for operation and maintenance,
Defense-wide, may be obligated or expended to continue the Trans Regional Web
Initiative (TRWI).
F
Other
matters
351.
Revised policy
on ground combat and camouflage utility uniforms
(a)
Establishment
of policy
It is the policy of the United States that the
Secretary of Defense shall take steps to reduce the separate development and
fielding of service-specific combat and camouflage utility uniforms, in order
to collectively adopt and field the same combat and camouflage utility uniforms
for use by all members of the Armed Forces to the maximum extent
practicable.
(b)
Prohibition
Except
as provided in subsection (c), each military service shall be prohibited from
adopting after the date of the enactment of this Act new designs for combat and
camouflage utility uniforms, including uniforms reflecting changes to the
fabric and camouflage patterns used in current combat and camouflage utility
uniforms, unless—
(1)
the combat or
camouflage utility uniform will be adopted by all military services;
(2)
the military
service adopts a uniform currently in use by another military service;
or
(3)
the Secretary of
Defense grants an exception, based on unique circumstances or
requirements.
(c)
Exception
Nothing
in subsection (b) shall be construed as prohibiting the development of combat
and camouflage utility uniforms for use by personnel assigned to or operating
in support of the unified combatant command for special operations forces
described in
section 167
of title 10, United States Code.
(d)
Limitation on
restrictions
No military service may prevent another military
service from authorizing the use of any combat or camouflage utility
uniform.
(e)
Guidance
required
(1)
In
general
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to implement this
section.
(2)
Content
At
a minimum, the guidance required by paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
require the
secretaries of the military departments, in cooperation with the commanders of
the combatant commands, including the unified combatant command for special
operations forces, to collaborate on the development of joint criteria for the
design, development, fielding, and characteristics of combat and camouflage
utility uniforms;
(B)
require the
secretaries of the military departments to ensure that new combat and
camouflage utility uniforms meet the geographic and operational requirements of
the commanders of the combatant commands; and
(C)
require the
secretaries of the military departments to ensure that all new combat and
camouflage utility uniforms achieve interoperability with all components of
individual war fighter systems, including body armor, organizational clothing
and individual equipment, and other individual protective systems.
(f)
Repeal of
policy
Section 352 of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
, 123 Stat. 2262;
10 U.S.C. 771
note prec.)
is repealed.
352.
Authorization
to institute a centralized, automated mail redirection system to improve the
delivery of absentee ballots to military personnel serving outside the United
States
The Secretary of
Defense may immediately transfer up to $4,500,000 from amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide
activities to the Postal Service Fund for purposes of implementing the
modernization of the United States Postal Services's mail delivery system to
improve the delivery of absentee ballots to military personnel serving outside
the United States.
A
Active
Forces
401.
End strengths
for active forces
The Armed
Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel as of September 30,
2014, as follows:
(1)
The Army,
520,000.
(2)
The Navy,
323,600.
(3)
The Marine Corps,
190,200.
(4)
The Air Force,
327,600.
B
Reserve
Forces
411.
End strengths
for Selected Reserve
(a)
In
general
The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for Selected
Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 30, 2014, as
follows:
(1)
The Army National
Guard of the United States, 354,200.
(2)
The Army Reserve,
205,000.
(3)
The Navy Reserve,
59,100.
(4)
The Marine Corps
Reserve, 39,600.
(5)
The Air National
Guard of the United States, 105,400.
(6)
The Air Force
Reserve, 70,400.
(7)
The Coast Guard
Reserve, 9,000.
(b)
End strength
reductions
The end strengths prescribed by subsection (a) for the
Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall be proportionately reduced
by—
(1)
the total
authorized strength of units organized to serve as units of the Selected
Reserve of such component which are on active duty (other than for training) at
the end of the fiscal year; and
(2)
the total number
of individual members not in units organized to serve as units of the Selected
Reserve of such component who are on active duty (other than for training or
for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at the end
of the fiscal year.
(c)
End strength
increases
Whenever units or individual members of the Selected
Reserve of any reserve component are released from active duty during any
fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected
Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased proportionately by the
total authorized strengths of such units and by the total number of such
individual members.
412.
End strengths
for Reserves on active duty in support of the reserves
Within the end strengths prescribed in
section 411(a), the reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as
of September 30, 2014, the following number of Reserves to be serving on
full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing,
or training the reserve components:
(1)
The Army National
Guard of the United States, 32,060.
(2)
The Army Reserve,
16,261.
(3)
The Navy Reserve,
10,159.
(4)
The Marine Corps
Reserve, 2,261.
(5)
The Air National
Guard of the United States, 14,734.
(6)
The Air Force
Reserve, 2,911.
413.
End strengths
for military technicians (dual status)
The minimum number of military technicians
(dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2014 for the reserve components
of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding
section 129
of title 10, United
States Code) shall be the following:
(1)
For the Army
National Guard of the United States, 27,210.
(2)
For the Army
Reserve, 8,395.
(3)
For the Air
National Guard of the United States, 21,875.
(4)
For the Air Force
Reserve, 10,429.
414.
Fiscal year
2014 limitation on number of non-dual status technicians
(a)
Limitations
(1)
National
Guard
Within the limitation provided in section 10217(c)(2) of
title 10, United States Code, the number of non-dual status technicians
employed by the National Guard as of September 30, 2014, may not exceed the
following:
(A)
For the Army
National Guard of the United States, 1,600.
(B)
For the Air
National Guard of the United States, 350.
(2)
Army
Reserve
The number of non-dual status technicians employed by the
Army Reserve as of September 30, 2014, may not exceed 595.
(3)
Air Force
Reserve
The number of non-dual status technicians employed by the
Air Force Reserve as of September 30, 2014, may not exceed 90.
(b)
Non-dual status
technicians defined
In this section, the term
non-dual
status technician
has the meaning given that term in section 10217(a) of
title 10, United States Code.
415.
Maximum number
of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational
support
During fiscal year
2014, the maximum number of members of the reserve components of the Armed
Forces who may be serving at any time on full-time operational support duty
under
section 115(b)
of title 10, United States Code, is the following:
(1)
The Army National
Guard of the United States, 17,000.
(2)
The Army Reserve,
13,000.
(3)
The Navy Reserve,
6,200.
(4)
The Marine Corps
Reserve, 3,000.
(5)
The Air National
Guard of the United States, 16,000.
(6)
The Air Force
Reserve, 14,000.
C
Authorization of
Appropriations
421.
Military
personnel
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and
agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for,
for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section
4401.
(b)
Construction of
authorization
The authorization of appropriations in subsection
(a) supersedes any other authorization of appropriations (definite or
indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal year 2014.
V
Military
Personnel Policy
A
Officer Personnel
Policy Generally
501.
Service credit
for cyberspace experience or advanced education upon original appointment as a
commissioned officer
Section
533 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsections
(a)(2) and (c), by inserting
or (g)
after
subsection
(b)
; and
(2)
by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
(g)
(1)
Under regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, if the Secretary of a military
department determines that the number of commissioned officers with
cyberspace-related experience or advanced education serving on active duty in
an armed force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary is critically below the
number needed, such Secretary may credit any person receiving an original
appointment with a period of constructive service for the following:
(A)
Special experience or training in a
particular cyberspace-related field if such experience or training is directly
related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
(B)
Any period of advanced education in a
cyberspace-related field beyond the baccalaureate degree level if such advanced
education is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force
concerned.
(2)
Constructive service credited an
officer under this subsection shall not exceed one year for each year of
special experience, training, or advanced education, and not more than three
years total constructive service may be credited.
(3)
Constructive service credited an
officer under this subsection is in addition to any service credited that
officer under subsection (a) and shall be credited at the time of the original
appointment of the officer.
(4)
The authority to award constructive
service credit under this subsection expires on December 31,
2018.
.
B
Reserve Component
Management
506.
Information to
be provided to boards considering officers for selective early removal from the
reserve active-status list
Section 14704(a)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
after
Active-Status List
.—
(2)
by striking
all
;
(3)
by striking
, in the number specified by the Secretary by each grade and competitive
category
; and
(4)
by adding at the
end the following new paragraphs:
(2)
The Secretary of the military
department concerned shall specify the number of officers described in
paragraph (1) that a selection board convened under section 14101(b) of this
title may recommend for removal from the reserve active-status list.
(3)
When the Secretary of the military
department concerned submits a list of officers to a selection board convened
under section 14101(b) of this title to consider officers for selection for
removal from the reserve active-status list under this section, such list
(except as provided in paragraph (4)) shall include each officer on the reserve
active-status list in the same grade and competitive category whose position on
the reserve active-status list is between that of the most junior officer in
that grade and competitive category whose name is submitted to the board and
that of the most senior officer in that grade and competitive category whose
name is submitted to the board.
(4)
A list under paragraph (3) may not
include an officer in that grade and competitive category who has been approved
for voluntary retirement or who is to be involuntary retired under any
provision of law during the fiscal year in which the selection board is
convened or during the following fiscal
year.
.
507.
Removal of
restrictions on the transfer of officers between the active and inactive
National Guard
(a)
Army National
Guard
During the period
ending on December 31, 2016, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of
the Army:
(1)
An officer of the
Army National Guard who fills a vacancy in a federally recognized unit of the
Army National Guard may be transferred from the active Army National Guard to
the inactive Army National Guard.
(2)
An officer of the
Army National Guard transferred to the inactive Army National Guard pursuant to
paragraph (1) may be transferred from the inactive Army National Guard to the
active Army National Guard to fill a vacancy in a federally recognized
unit.
(b)
Air National
Guard
During the period ending on December 31, 2016, under
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force:
(1)
An officer of the
Air National Guard who fills a vacancy in a federally recognized unit of the
Air National Guard may be transferred from the active Air National Guard to the
inactive Air National Guard.
(2)
An officer of the
Air National Guard transferred to the inactive Air National Guard pursuant to
paragraph (1) may be transferred from the inactive Air National Guard to the
active Air National Guard to fill a vacancy in a federally recognized
unit.
508.
Limitation on
certain cancellations of deployment of reserve component units within 180 days
of scheduled date of deployment
(a)
Limitation
The
deployment of a unit of a reserve component of the Armed Forces described in
subsection (b) may not be cancelled during the 180-day period ending on the
date on which the unit is otherwise scheduled for deployment without the
approval, in writing, of the Secretary of Defense.
(b)
Covered
deployments
A deployment of a unit of a reserve component
described in this subsection is a deployment whose cancellation as described in
subsection (a) is due to the deployment of a unit of a regular component of the
Armed Forces to carry out the mission for which the unit of the reserve
component was otherwise to be deployed.
(c)
Nondelegation
of approval
The Secretary may not delegate the approval of
cancellations of deployments under subsection (a).
(d)
Notice to
Congress and Governors
On approving the cancellation of
deployment of a unit under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees and the Governor concerned a notice on the
approval of cancellation of deployment of the unit.
509.
National Guard Youth
Challenge Program
(a)
In
general
Subsection (a) of
section 509
of title 32, United States
Code, is amended by striking
may use
and inserting
shall
use
.
(b)
Conduct of
program
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
by striking
Secretary of Defense
and inserting
Chief of the National
Guard Bureau
; and
(B)
by striking
Secretary
and inserting
Chief of the National Guard
Bureau
;
(2)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
by inserting
of Defense
after
Secretary
in the matter
preceding subparagraph (A); and
(B)
in subparagraph
(A), by striking
, except that
and all that follows through
$62,500,000
; and
(3)
in paragraph (4),
by striking
may use
and inserting
shall
use
.
(c)
Persons
eligible to participate
Subsection (e) of such section is amended
by striking
Secretary of Defense
and inserting
Chief of
the National Guard Bureau
.
(d)
Report
Subsection
(k) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking
Secretary of Defense
and inserting
Chief of the National
Guard Bureau
; and
(2)
by striking
Secretary
and inserting
Chief of the National Guard
Bureau
.
C
General Service
Authorities
511.
Expansion and
enhancement of authorities relating to protected communications of members of
the Armed Forces and prohibited retaliatory actions
(a)
Expansion of
prohibited retaliatory personnel actions
Subsection (b) of
section 1034
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
in the matter
preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
or being perceived as making or
preparing
after
making or preparing
;
(B)
in subparagraph
(A), by striking
or
at the end;
(C)
in subparagraph
(B)—
(i)
in
clause (i), by inserting
or a representative of a Member of
Congress
after
a Member of Congress
;
(ii)
in
clause (iv), by striking
or
at the end;
(iii)
by
redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi);
(iv)
by
inserting after clause (v) the following new clause (v):
(v)
a court, grand jury, or
court-martial proceeding, or an authorized official of the Department of
Justice or another law enforcement agency;
or
; and
(v)
in
clause (vi), as redesignated by clause (iii) of this subparagraph, by striking
the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(D)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
testimony, or otherwise participating
in or assisting in an investigation or proceeding related to a communication
under subparagraph (A) or (B), or filing, causing to be filed, participating
in, or otherwise assisting in an action brought under this
section.
;
and
(2)
in paragraph (2),
by inserting after
any favorable action
the following:
,
or a significant change in a member's duties or responsibilities not
commensurate with the member's grade
.
(b)
Inspector
General investigations of allegations
Subsection (c) of such
section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
paragraph (3)
and inserting
paragraph
(4)
;
(2)
by redesignating
paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6),
respectively;
(3)
by inserting
after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
(3)
A communication described in
paragraph (2) shall not be excluded from the protections provided in this
section because—
(A)
the communication was made to a person
who participated in an activity that the member reasonably believed to be
covered by paragraph (2);
(B)
the communication revealed information
that had previously been disclosed;
(C)
of the member’s motive for making the
communication;
(D)
the communication was not made in
writing;
(E)
the communication was made while the
member was off duty;
(F)
the communication was made during the
normal course of duties of the member.
;
and
(4)
in paragraph (5),
as so redesignated—
(A)
by striking
paragraph (3)(A)
and inserting
paragraph
(4)(A)
;
(B)
by striking
paragraph (3)(D)
and inserting
paragraph (4)(D)
;
and
(C)
by striking
60 days
and inserting
180 days
.
(c)
Inspector
General investigations of underlying allegations
Subsection (d)
of such section is amended by striking
subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (c)(2)
and inserting
subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of
subsection (c)(2)
.
(d)
Reports on
investigations
Subsection (e) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
by striking
subsection (c)(3)(E)
both places it appears and inserting
subsection (c)(4)(E)
;
(B)
by inserting
and the Secretary of the military department concerned
after
the Secretary of Defense
; and
(C)
by striking
to the Secretary,
and inserting
to such
Secretaries,
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3),
by inserting
and the Secretary of the military department
concerned
after
the Secretary of Defense
.
(e)
Action in case
of violations
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (g), (h), (j), and (k),
respectively; and
(2)
by inserting
after subsection (e) the following new subsection (f):
(f)
Action in case
of violations
(1)
Not later than 30 days
after receiving a report from the Inspector General under subsection (e), the
Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary of the military department
concerned, as applicable, shall determine whether there is sufficient basis to
conclude whether a personnel action prohibited by subsection (b) has occurred,
and, if so, shall order such action as is necessary to correct the record of a
personnel action prohibited by subsection (b). Such Secretary shall take any
appropriate disciplinary action against the individual who committed such
prohibited personnel action.
(2)
If the Secretary of Homeland Security
or the Secretary of the military department concerned, as applicable,
determines that an order for corrective or disciplinary action is not
appropriate, not later than 30 days after making the determination, such
Secretary shall—
(A)
provide to the Secretary of Defense
and the member or former member, a notice of the determination and the reasons
for not taking action; or
(B)
refer the report to the appropriate
board for the correction of military records for further review under
subsection
(g).
.
(f)
Correction of
records
Subsection (g) of such section, as redesignated by
subsection (e)(1) of this section, is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
In a case referred to a
board by the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary of a military
department when such Secretary has determined that a personnel action
prohibited by subsection (b) has occurred, the board shall review the
matter.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3),
by striking
board elects to hold
in the matter preceding
subparagraph (A) and inserting
board holds
.
(g)
Review
Subsection
(h) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (e)(1) of this section, is
further amended by striking
subsection (f)
and inserting
subsection (g)
.
512.
Enhancement of
protection of rights of conscience of members of the Armed Forces and chaplains
of such members
(a)
In
general
Subsection (a)(1) of section 533 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1727; 10
U.S.C. prec. 1030 note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Armed Forces shall accommodate the beliefs
and inserting
Unless it could have an adverse impact on military readiness, unit
cohesion, and good order and discipline, the Armed Forces shall accommodate
individual expressions of belief
;
(2)
by inserting
sincerely held
before
conscience
; and
(3)
by striking
use such beliefs
and inserting
use such expression of
belief
.
(b)
Regulations
The
implementing regulations required by subsection (c) of such section shall be
prescribed by not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this
Act. In prescribing such regulations, the Secretary of Defense shall consult
with the official military faith-group representatives who endorse military
chaplains.
513.
Department of
Defense Inspector General reports on compliance with requirements for the
protection of rights of conscience of members of the Armed Forces and their
chaplains
(a)
Report on
assessment
(1)
In
general
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the
regulations required by subsection (c) of section 533 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1726; 10
U.S.C. prec. 1030 note) are prescribed, the Inspector General of the Department
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report
setting forth an assessment by the Inspector General of the compliance of the
Department of Defense with that section.
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An analysis of
the regulations referred to in paragraph (1) for purposes of implementing the
requirements of section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2013, and an analysis of the compliance of the Department of
Defense with that section and such regulations. The analysis shall include a
review of the use by the Secretary and the Department of policy recommendations
from nongovernment organizations for purposes of that section and such
regulations, and an assessment whether the Department is seeking a wide variety
of perspectives from outside nongovernment organizations with respect to policy
on religious beliefs and expression for such purposes.
(B)
An anonymous
survey of a representative sample of members of the Armed Forces as to whether
they have experienced or witnessed adverse personnel actions, discrimination,
or denials of promotion, schooling, training, or assignment in the Armed Forces
based on conscience, moral principles, or religious beliefs.
(C)
An anonymous
survey of a representative sample of military chaplains as to whether they have
experienced or witnessed adverse personnel actions, discrimination, or denials
of promotion, schooling, training, or assignment in the Armed Forces due to a
refusal to perform any rite, ritual, or ceremony that violates their
conscience, moral principles, or religious beliefs.
(b)
Report on
investigation into compliance
(1)
In
general
Not later than 18 months after the date on which the
regulations required by subsection (c) of section 533 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 are prescribed, the Inspector General of
the Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees
a report setting forth the results of an investigation by the Inspector General
into the compliance by the Armed Forces with the elements of the regulations on
adverse personnel actions, discrimination, or denials of promotion, schooling,
training, or assignment for members of the Armed Forces based on conscience,
moral principles, or religious beliefs.
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include an identification of the number
of times the Inspector General or the Inspector General of a military
department was contacted during the 18-month period beginning on the date the
regulations were prescribed regarding an incident involving the conscience,
moral principles, or religious beliefs of a member of the Armed Forces.
(c)
Consultation
In
conducting any analysis, investigation, or survey for purposes of this section,
the Inspector General shall consult with the Armed Forces Chaplains Board, as
appropriate.
D
Member Education
and Training
521.
Authority for
joint professional military education Phase II instruction and credit to be
offered and awarded through senior-level course of School of Advanced Military
Studies of the United States Army Command and General Staff
College
Section 2151(b)(1) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
(E)
The senior-level
course of the School of Advanced Military Studies of the United States Army
Command and General Staff
College.
.
522.
Authority for
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences to support undergraduate
and other medical education and training programs for military medical
personnel
(a)
In
general
Section 2112(a)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1)
by striking
established
and inserting
headquartered
;
and
(2)
inserting after
advanced degrees
the following:
, undergraduate degrees,
and certificates and certifications
.
(b)
Administration
Section
2113 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(d)—
(A)
in the first
sentence, by striking
located in or near the District of
Columbia
;
(B)
in the third
sentence, by striking
in or near the District of Columbia
;
and
(C)
by striking the
fifth sentence; and
(2)
in subsection
(e)(3) by inserting after
programs
the following:
,
including undergraduate degree programs and certificate and certification
programs,
.
523.
Expansion of
eligibility for associate degree programs under the Community College of the
Air Force
Section 9315(b) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
(3)
Enlisted members
of the armed forces other than the Air Force who are participating in
joint-service medical training and education or are serving as instructors in
such joint-service medical training and
education.
.
524.
Additional
requirements for approval of educational programs for purposes of certain
educational assistance under laws administered by the Secretary of
Defense
(a)
In
general
Chapter 101
of title 10, United States Code, is amended
by inserting after section 2006 the following new section:
2006a.
Assistance
for education and training: availability of certain assistance for use only at
certain institutions of higher education
(a)
In
general
Effective as of August, 1, 2014, an individual eligible
for assistance under a Department of Defense educational assistance program or
authority covered by this section may, except as provided in subsection (b),
only use such assistance for educational expenses incurred for an eligible
program (as defined in section 481 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1088)) that—
(1)
is offered by an
institution of higher education that has entered into, and is complying with, a
program participation agreement under section 487 of such Act (20 U.S.C.
1094);
(2)
in the case of a
program designed to prepare individuals for licensure or certification in any
State, meets the instructional curriculum licensure or certification
requirements of such State; and
(3)
in the case of a
program designed to prepare individuals for employment pursuant to standards
developed by a State board or agency in an occupation that requires approval or
licensure for such employment, is approved or licensed by such State board or
agency.
(b)
Waiver
The
Secretary of Defense may, by regulation, authorize the use of educational
assistance under a Department of Defense educational assistance program or
authority covered by this chapter for educational expenses incurred for a
program of education that is not described in subsection (a) if the
program—
(1)
is accredited and
approved by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association;
(2)
was not an
eligible program described in subsection (a) at any time during the most recent
two-year period;
(3)
is a program that
the Secretary determines would further the purposes of the educational
assistance programs or authorities covered by this chapter, or would further
the education interests of students eligible for assistance under the such
programs or authorities;
(4)
in the case of a
program that prepares individuals for licensure or certification, includes
instructional curriculum that satisfies the licensure or certification
requirements of each State represented by the institution as being met by such
program;
(5)
in the case of a
program designed to prepare a student for employment in a recognized occupation
requiring approval or licensure for employment by a State board or agency, the
program is approved or licensed by such State board or agency; and
(6)
the institution
providing the program does not provide any commission, bonus, or other
incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing
enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities engaged in any student
recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award
of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of foreign students
residing in foreign countries who are not eligible to receive Federal student
assistance.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Department of Defense
educational assistance programs and authorities covered by this section
means the programs and authorities as follows:
(A)
The programs to
assist military spouses in achieving education and training to expand
employment and portable career opportunities under section 1784a of this
title.
(B)
The authority to
pay tuition for off-duty training or education of members of the armed forces
under section 2007 of this title.
(C)
The program of
educational assistance for members of the Selected Reserve under chapter 1606
of this title.
(D)
The program of
educational assistance for reserve component members supporting contingency
operations and certain other operations under chapter 1607 of this
title.
(E)
Any other program
or authority of the Department of Defense for assistance in education or
training carried out under the laws administered by the Secretary of Defense
that is designated by the Secretary, by regulation, for purposes of this
section.
(2)
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given that term in
section 102 of the Higher Education Act for 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002).
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 101
of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2006
the following new item:
2006a. Assistance for education and training: availability of
certain assistance for use only at certain institutions of higher
education.
.
(c)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on
August 1, 2014.
525.
Enhancement of
mechanisms to correlate skills and training for military occupational
specialties with skills and training required for civilian certifications and
licenses
(a)
Improvement of
information available to members of the Armed Forces about correlation
(1)
In
general
The Secretaries of the military departments, in
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make information on civilian
credentialing opportunities available to members of the Armed Forces beginning
with, and at every stage of, training of members for military occupational
specialties, in order to permit members—
(A)
to evaluate the
extent to which such training correlates with the skills and training required
in connection with various civilian certifications and licenses; and
(B)
to assess the
suitability of such training for obtaining or pursuing such civilian
certifications and licenses.
(2)
Coordination
with Transition Goals Plans Success program
Information shall be
made available under paragraph (1) in a manner consistent with the Transition
Goals Plans Success (GPS) program.
(3)
Types of
information
The information made available under paragraph (1)
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(A)
Information on
the civilian occupational equivalents of military occupational specialties
(MOS).
(B)
Information on
civilian license or certification requirements, including examination
requirements.
(C)
Information on
the availability and opportunities for use of educational benefits available to
members of the Armed Forces, as appropriate, corresponding training, or
continuing education that leads to a certification exam in order to provide a
pathway to credentialing opportunities.
(4)
Use and
adaptation of certain programs
In making information available
under paragraph (1), the Secretaries of the military departments may use and
adapt appropriate portions of the Credentialing Opportunities On-line (COOL)
programs of the Army and the Navy and the Credentialing and Educational
Research Tool (CERT) of the Air Force.
(b)
Improvement of
access of accredited civilian credentialing and related entities to military
training content
(1)
In
general
The Secretaries of the military departments, in
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,
shall, to the maximum extent practicable consistent with national security and
privacy requirements, make available to entities specified in paragraph (2),
upon request of such entities, information such as military course training
curricula, syllabi, and materials, levels of military advancement attained, and
professional skills developed.
(2)
Entities
The
entities specified in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
Civilian
credentialing agencies.
(B)
Entities approved
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or by State approving agencies, for
purposes of the use of educational assistance benefits under the laws
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(3)
Central
repository
The actions taken pursuant to paragraph (1) may
include the establishment of a central repository of information on training
and training materials provided members in connection with military
occupational specialities that is readily accessible by entities specified in
paragraph (2) in order to meet requests described in paragraph (1).
526.
Coverage of
military occupational specialities relating to military information technology
under pilot program on receipt of civilian credentials for skills required for
military occupational specialties
The military occupational specialties
designated for purposes of the pilot program on receipt of civilian credentials
for skills required for military occupational specialities under section 558 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2015
note) shall include military occupational specialities relating to the military
information technology workforce.
527.
Sense of
Senate on the Troops-to-Teachers Program
It is the sense of the Senate to strongly
urge the Secretary of Defense—
(1)
to ensure that the Troops-to-Teachers
Program is a priority of the nation’s commitment to the higher education of
members of the Armed Forces; and
(2)
to provide funds for the Troops-to-Teachers
Program in order to help separating members of the Armed Forces and veterans
who wish to transition into a teaching career.
528.
Conforming
amendment relating to renaming of North Georgia College and State University as
University of North Georgia
Paragraph (6) of section 2111a(f) of title
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(6)
University of
North
Georgia.
.
E
Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response and Military Justice Matters
I
Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response
531.
Prohibition on
service in the Armed Forces by individuals who have been convicted of certain
sexual offenses
(a)
Prohibition
(1)
In
general
Chapter 37
of title 10, United States Code, is amended
adding at the end the following new section:
657.
Prohibition on
service in the armed forces by individuals convicted of certain sexual
offenses
(a)
Prohibition on
commissioning or enlistment
A person who has been convicted of an
offense specified in subsection (b) under Federal or State law may not be
processed for commissioning or permitted to enlist in the armed forces.
(b)
Covered
offenses
An offense specified in this subsection is any felony
offense as follows:
(1)
Rape or sexual
assault.
(2)
Forcible
sodomy.
(3)
Incest.
(4)
An attempt to
commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) through (3), as punishable under
applicable Federal or State
law.
.
(2)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 37 of
such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
657. Prohibition on service in the armed forces by individuals
convicted of certain sexual
offenses.
.
(b)
Repeal of
superseded prohibition
Section 523 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1723; 10
U.S.C. 504 note) is repealed.
532.
Temporary
administrative reassignment or removal of a member of the Armed Forces on
active duty who is accused of committing a sexual assault or related
offense
(a)
In
general
Chapter 39
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after section 673 the following new section:
674.
Temporary
administrative reassignment or removal of a member on active duty accused of
committing a sexual assault or related offense
(a)
Guidance for
timely consideration and action
The Secretary concerned may
provide guidance, within guidelines provided by the Secretary of Defense, for
commanders regarding their authority to make a timely determination, and to
take action, regarding whether a member of the armed forces serving on active
duty who is alleged to have committed an offense under section 920, 920a, 920b,
920c, or 925 of this title (article 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, or 125 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice) or an attempt to commit such an offense as
punishable under section 880 of this title (article 80 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice) should be temporarily reassigned or removed from a position
of authority or from an assignment, not as a punitive measure, but solely for
the purpose of maintaining good order and discipline within the member's
unit.
(b)
Time for
determination
A determination described in subsection (a) may be
made at any time afer receipt of notification of an unrestricted report of a
sexual assault or other sex-related offense that identifies the member as an
alleged
perpetrator.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 39 of
such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 673 the
following new item:
674. Temporary administrative reassignment or removal of a
member on active duty accused of committing a sexual assault or related
offense.
.
(c)
Additional
training requirement for commanders
The Secretary of Defense
shall provide for inclusion of information and discussion regarding the
availability and use of the authority described by
section 674
of title 10,
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), as part of the training for new
and prospective commanders at all levels of command required by section 585(b)
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law
112–81;
10 U.S.C. 1561
note).
533.
Issuance of
regulations applicable to the Coast Guard regarding consideration of request
for permanent change of station or unit transfer by victim of sexual
assault
Section 673(b) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
The Secretaries of
the military departments
and inserting
The Secretary
concerned
.
534.
Inclusion and
command review of information on sexual-related offenses in personnel service
records of members of the Armed Forces
(a)
Information on
substantiated reports on sexual-Related offenses
(1)
In
general
If a complaint of a sexual-related offense is made
against a member of the Armed Forces and the complaint is substantiated and the
member is convicted by court-martial or receives non-judicial punishment or
administrative action for such sexual-related offense, a notation to that
effect shall be placed in the personnel service record of the member,
regardless of the member's grade.
(2)
Purpose
The
purpose of the inclusion of information in personnel service records under
paragraph (1) is to alert commanders to the members of their command who have
received courts-martial conviction, non-judicial punishment, or administrative
action for sexual-related offenses in order to reduce the likelihood that
repeat offenses will escape the notice of commanders.
(b)
Limitation on
placement
A notation under subsection (a) may not be placed in
the restricted section of the personnel service record of a member.
(c)
Construction
Nothing
in subsection (a) or (b) may be construed to prohibit or limit the capacity of
a member of the Armed Forces to challenge or appeal the placement of a
notation, or location of placement of a notation, in the member's personnel
service record in accordance with procedures otherwise applicable to such
challenges or appeals.
(d)
Substantiated
complaints
For purposes of implementing this section, the
Secretary of Defense shall use the definition of substantiated developed for
purposes of the annual report on sexual assaults involving members of the Armed
Forces prepared under section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
10 U.S.C. 1561
note).
(e)
Command review
of history of sexual-Related offenses of members upon assignment or transfer to
new unit
(1)
Review
required
Under uniform
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the commanding officer of a
facility, installation, or unit to which a member of the Armed Forces described
in paragraph (2) is permanently assigned or transferred shall review the
history of substantiated sexual offenses of the member in order to familiarize
such officer with such history of the member.
(2)
Covered
members
A member of the Armed Forces described in this paragraph
is a member of the Armed Forces who, at the time of assignment or transfer as
described in paragraph (1), has a history of one or more substantiated sexual
offenses as documented in the personnel service record of such member or such
other records or files as the Secretary shall specify in the regulations
prescribed under paragraph (1).
535.
Enhanced
responsibilities of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office for
Department of Defense sexual assault prevention and response program
(a)
In
general
Section 1611(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
10 U.S.C. 1561
note) is amended by
striking
shall—
and all that follows and inserting “shall do the
following:
(1)
Oversee
development and implementation of the comprehensive policy for the Department
of Defense sexual assault prevention and response program, including guidance
and assistance for the military departments in addressing matters relating to
sexual assault prevention and response.
(2)
Serve as the
single point of authority, accountability, and oversight for the sexual assault
prevention and response program.
(3)
Undertake
responsibility for the oversight of the implementation of the sexual assault
prevention and response program by the Armed Forces.
(4)
Collect and
maintain data of the military departments on sexual assault in accordance with
section 1615.
(5)
Provide oversight
to ensure that the military departments maintain documents relating to the
following:
(A)
Allegations and
complaints of sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces.
(B)
Courts-martial or
trials of members of the Armed Forces for offenses relating to sexual
assault.
(6)
Act as liaison
between the Department of Defense and other Federal and State agencies on
programs and efforts relating to sexual assault prevention and response.
(7)
Oversee
development of strategic program guidance and joint planning objectives for
resources in support of the sexual assault prevention and response program, and
make recommendations on modifications to policy, law, and regulations needed to
ensure the continuing availability of such resources.
(8)
Provide to the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs any records or documents on sexual assault in the
Armed Forces, including restricted reports with the approval of the individuals
who filed such reports, that are required by the Secretary for purposes of the
administration of the laws administered by the
Secretary.
.
(b)
Collection and
maintenance of data
Subtitle A of title XVI of such Act (10
U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
1615.
Collection
and maintenance of data of military departments on sexual assault prevention
and response
In carrying out
the requirements of section 1611(b)(4), the Director of the Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response Office shall do the following:
(1)
Collect from each
military department on a quarterly and annual basis data of such military
department on sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces in a manner
consistent with the policy and procedures developed pursuant to section 586 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 1561
note) that protect the privacy of individuals named in records and the status
of records.
(2)
Maintain data
collected from the military departments under paragraph (1).
(3)
Assemble from the
data collected and maintained under this section quarterly and annual reports
on the involvement of members of the Armed Forces in incidents of sexual
assault.
(4)
Develop metrics
to measure the effectiveness of, and compliance with, training and awareness
objectives of the military departments on sexual assault prevention and
response.
(5)
Establish
categories of information to be provided by the military departments in
connection with reports on sexual assault prevention and response, including,
but not limited to, the annual reports required by section 1631, and ensure
that the submittals of the military departments for purposes of such reports
include data within such
categories.
.
(c)
Element on unit
of accused and victim in case synopses in annual report on sexual
assaults
(1)
In
general
Section 1631(f) of such Act (
10 U.S.C. 1561
note) is
amended—
(A)
by redesignating
paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting
after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
The case synopsis
shall indicate the unit of each member of the Armed Forces accused of
committing a sexual assault and the unit of each member of the Armed Forces who
is a victim of sexual
assault.
.
(2)
Application of
amendments
The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall apply
beginning with the report regarding sexual assaults involving members of the
Armed Forces required to be submitted by March 1, 2014, under section 1631 of
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.
536.
Comprehensive
review of adequacy of training for members of the Armed Forces on sexual
assault prevention and response
(a)
Comprehensive
review required
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a review of the
adequacy of the training provided members of the Armed Forces on sexual assault
prevention and response.
(2)
Responsive
action
Upon completion of the review under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall prescribe in regulations such modifications of the training
provided members of the Armed Forces on sexual assault prevention and response
as the Secretary considers appropriate to address any inadequacies in such
training identified during the review.
(b)
Review of
personnel responsible for sexual assault prevention and response
activities
(1)
Review of
personnel
The Secretary shall carry out a review of the adequacy
of the training, qualifications, and experience of each member of the Armed
Forces and civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is assigned to a
position that includes responsibility for sexual assault prevention and
response within the Armed Forces for the discharge of such
responsibility.
(2)
Assessment of
certain elements of prevention and response program
In carrying
out the review under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall also conduct an
assessment of the adequacy of the training and certifications required for
certain such personnel by section 584 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1433; 10 U.S.C. 1561
note).
(3)
Responsive
personnel actions
If as a result of the review under paragraph
(1) the Secretary determines that any member or civilian employee described in
that paragraph does not have the training, qualifications, or experience
required to discharge the responsibility referred to in that paragraph, the
Secretary shall take appropriate responsive actions, including—
(A)
re-training or
re-certification of such member or civilian employee; or
(B)
reassigning such
member or civilian employee to duties other than sexual assault prevention and
response and replacing such member or civilian with a member or civilian
employee qualified to discharge such responsibility.
(4)
Responsive
actions regarding program elements
Upon completion of the review
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall prescribe in regulations the
following:
(A)
Appropriate
minimum levels of training, qualifications, and experience for members of the
Armed Forces and civilian personnel of the Department for the discharge of
responsibilities for sexual assault prevention and response within the Armed
Forces.
(B)
Such requirements
for improvements in the training provided to members and civilian employees
referred to in subparagraph (A) as the Secretary considers appropriate,
including improvements to the training and certifications referred to in
paragraph (2), in order to ensure that such members and civilian employees are
properly trained and certified to discharge responsibilities for sexual assault
prevention and response within the Armed Forces.
(C)
Such requirements
for improvements in the processes used to select and assign personnel to sexual
assault prevention and response billets as the Secretary considers appropriate
to ensure that the highest caliber candidates are selected and assigned to such
billets.
(5)
Report
required
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the
following:
(A)
The findings and
responsive action taken based on review under paragraph (1).
(B)
Recommendations
of the Secretary for such legislative action as the Secretary considers
appropriate—
(i)
to improve
training provided members of the Armed Forces on sexual assault and prevention;
and
(ii)
to ensure that
sexual assault prevention and response positions are considered career
enhancing assignments.
537.
Availability
of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators for members of the National Guard and
the Reserves
Section 584(a) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
;
125 Stat. 1433;
10 U.S.C. 1561
note) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating
paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
(2)
by inserting
after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Availability
for members of the National Guard and Reserves
The Secretary of
the military department concerned shall ensure that each member of the National
Guard or Reserve who—
(A)
is the victim of
a sexual assault during the performance of duties as a member of the National
Guard or Reserve; or
(B)
is the victim of
a sexual assault committed by a member of the National Guard or
Reserves,
has access
to a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator not later than two business days
following the date of such member's request for assistance from a Sexual
Assault Response
Coordinator.
.
538.
Retention of certain
forms in connection with Restricted Reports and Unrestricted Reports on sexual
assault involving members of the Armed Forces
(a)
Requirement for
retention
Subsection (a) of section 577 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1762; 10
U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
At the request of a member of the Armed Forces who files a Restricted
Report on an incident of sexual assault involving the member, the Secretary of
Defense shall
and inserting
The Secretary of Defense
shall
; and
(2)
by striking
the Restricted Report
and inserting
a Restricted Report
or Unrestricted Report on an incident of sexual assault involving a member of
the Armed Forces
.
(b)
Conforming
amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as
follows:
577.
Retention of
certain forms in connection with Restricted Reports and Unrestricted Reports on
sexual assault involving members of the Armed
Forces
.
539.
Special
Victims' Counsel for victims of sexual assault committed by members of the
Armed Forces
(a)
Special
Victims' Counsel for certain victims of sexual assault committed by members of
the Armed Forces
(1)
In
general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretaries of the military departments shall each implement a
program on the provision of a Special Victims' Counsel to members of the Armed
Forces, and dependents of members, who are victims of a sexual assault
committed by a member of the Armed Forces.
(2)
Qualification
An
individual may not be designated as a Special Victims' Counsel under this
subsection unless the individual is—
(A)
a judge advocate
who is a graduate of an accredited law school or is a member of the bar of a
Federal court or the highest court of a State; and
(B)
certified as
competent to be designated as a Special Victims' Counsel by the Judge Advocate
General of the Armed Force of which the individual is a member.
(3)
Duties
(A)
In
general
Subject to subparagraph (C), the duties of a Special
Victims' Counsel shall include the provision of legal advice and assistance to
a victim described in paragraph (1) in connection with criminal and civil legal
matters related to the sexual assault committed against the victim, including
the following:
(i)
Legal advice and
assistance regarding any potential criminal liability of the victim.
(ii)
Legal advice and
assistance regarding the victim’s responsibility to testify, and other duties
to the court.
(iii)
Legal advice
regarding the potential for civil litigation against other parties (other than
the Department of Defense).
(iv)
Legal advice
regarding any proceedings of the military justice process which the victim may
observe.
(v)
Legal advice and
assistance regarding any proceeding of the military justice process in which
the victim may participate as a witness or other party.
(vi)
Legal advice and
assistance regarding available military or civilian restraining or protective
orders.
(vii)
Legal advice
and assistance regarding available military and veteran benefits.
(viii)
Legal
assistance in personal civil legal matters in connection with the sexual
assault in accordance with
section 1044
of title 10, United States Code.
(ix)
Such other legal
advice and assistance as the Secretary of the military department concerned
shall specify for purposes of the program implemented under this
subsection.
(B)
Nature of
relationship
The relationship between a Special Victims' Counsel
and a victim in the provision of legal advice and assistance shall be the
relationship between an attorney and client.
(b)
Assistance and
reporting
(1)
Assistance
Section
1565b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating
subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(B)
by inserting
after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Availability of
Special Victims' Counsel for victims of sexual assault committed by members of
the Armed Forces
(1)
A member of the armed
forces, or a dependent of a member, who is the victim of a sexual assault
described in paragraph (2) may be provided assistance by a Special Victims'
Counsel.
(2)
A sexual assault described in this
paragraph is any offense if alleged to have been committed by a member of the
armed forces as follows:
(A)
Rape or sexual assault under section
920 of this title (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(B)
An attempt to commit an offense
specified in subparagraph (A) as punishable under section 880 of this title
(article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(3)
A member of the armed forces or
dependent who is the victim of sexual assault described in paragraph (2) shall
be informed of the availability of assistance under paragraph (1) as soon as
the member or dependent seeks assistance from a Sexual Assault Response
Coordinator, a Sexual Assault Victim Advocate, a military criminal
investigator, a victim/witness liaison, a trial counsel, health care providers,
or any other personnel designated by the Secretary of the military department
concerned for purposes of this paragraph. The member or dependent shall also be
informed that the assistance of a Special Victims' Counsel under paragraph (1)
is optional and may be declined, in whole or in part, at any time.
(4)
Assistance of a Special Victims'
Counsel under paragraph (1) shall be available to a member or dependent
regardless of whether the member or dependent elects unrestricted or restricted
(confidential) reporting of the sexual
assault.
.
(2)
Reporting
Subsection
(c) of such section, as redesignated by paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, is
further amended in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by redesignating
subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and
(B)
by inserting
after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph (C):
(C)
A Special Victims'
Counsel.
.
(c)
Conforming
amendments to authority on SARC, SAVA, and related
assistance
Subsection (a) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
may
and inserting
shall, upon
request,
; and
(2)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
by inserting
a Special Victims' Counsel,
after
a Sexual Assault Victim
Advocate,
; and
(B)
by striking
or a trial counsel
and inserting
a trial counsel, health
care providers, or any other personnel designated by the Secretary of the
military department concerned for purposes of this paragraph
.
(d)
Conforming and
clerical amendments
(1)
Heading
amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as
follows:
1565b.
Victims of
sexual assault: access to legal assistance and services of Sexual Assault
Coordinators, Sexual Assault Victim Advocates, and Special Victims'
Counsels
.
(2)
Table of
sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 80 of
such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 1565b and
inserting the following new item:
1565b. Victims of sexual assault: access to legal assistance
and services of Sexual Assault Coordinators, Sexual Assault Victim Advocates,
and Special Victims'
Counsels.
.
540.
Sense of
Congress on commanding officer responsibility for command climate free of
retaliation
It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1)
commanding
officers are responsible for establishing a command climate in which sexual
assault allegations are properly managed and fairly evaluated and a victim can
report criminal activity, including sexual assault, without fear of
retaliation, including ostracism and group pressure from other members of the
command;
(2)
the failure of
commanding officers to maintain such a command climate is an appropriate basis
for relief from their command positions; and
(3)
senior officers
should evaluate subordinate commanding officers on their performance in
establishing a command climate as described in paragraph (1) during the regular
periodic counseling and performance appraisal process prescribed by the Armed
Force concerned for inclusion in the systems of records maintained and used for
assignment and promotion selection boards.
541.
Commanding
officer action on reports on sexual offenses involving members of the Armed
Forces
(a)
Immediate
action required
A commanding officer who receives a report of a
sexual-related offense involving a member of the Armed Forces in the chain of
command of such officer shall act upon the report in accordance with subsection
(b) immediately after receipt of the report by the commanding officer.
(b)
Action
required
The action required by this subsection with respect to a
report described in subsection (a) is the referral of the report to the
military criminal investigation organization with responsibility for
investigating that offense of the military department concerned or such other
investigation service of the military department concerned as the Secretary of
the military department concerned may specify for purposes of this
section.
542.
Department of
Defense Inspector General investigation of allegations of retaliatory personnel
actions taken in response to making protected communications regarding sexual
assault
Section 1034(c)(2)(A)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
sexual
harassment or
and inserting
rape, sexual assault, or other
sexual misconduct in violation of sections 920 through 920c of this title
(articles 120 through 120c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), sexual
harassment, or
.
543.
Advancement of
submittal deadline for report of independent panel on assessment of military
response systems to sexual assault
Section 576(c)(1)(B) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1759) is
amended by striking
Eighteen months
and inserting
Twelve
months
.
544.
Assessment of
clemency in the military justice system and of database of alleged offenders of
sexual assault as additional duties of independent panel on review and
assessment of systems to respond to sexual assault cases
Paragraph (1) of Section 576(d) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
;
126 Stat. 1760) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph
(B), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
The comparison
shall also include an assessment of the opportunities for clemency provided in
the military and civilian systems, the appropriateness of clemency proceedings
in the military system, the manner in which clemency is used in the military
system, and whether clemency in the military justice system could be reserved
until the end of the military appeals process.
;
(2)
by redesignating
subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J); and
(3)
by inserting
after subparagraph (H) the following new subparagraph (I):
(I)
An assessment of
the means by which the name, if known, and other necessary identifying
information of an alleged offender that is collected as part of a restricted
report of a sexual assault could be compiled into a protected, searchable
database accessible only to military criminal investigators, Sexual Assault
Response Coordinators, or other appropriate personnel only for the purposes of
identifying individuals who are subjects of multiple accusations of sexual
assault and encouraging victims to make an unrestricted report of sexual
assault in those cases in order to facilitate increased prosecutions,
particularly of serial offenders. The assessment should include an evaluation
of the appropriate content to be included in the database, as well as the best
means to maintain the privacy of those making a restricted
report.
.
545.
Assessment of
provisions and proposed provisions of law on sexual assault prevention and
response as additional duties of independent panels for review and assessment
of Uniform Code of Military Justice and judicial proceedings of sexual assault
cases
(a)
Assessment as
additional duties of panel on response systems to sexual assault
crimes
Paragraph (1) of section 576(d) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1760), as
amended by section 544 of this Act, is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (L); and
(2)
by inserting
after subparagraph (I) the following new subparagraphs:
(J)
An assessment of
the effectiveness of the provisions of law on sexual assault prevention and
response in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,
including the provisions establishing or amending requirements and authorities
relating to sexual assault prevention and response.
(K)
An assessment of
the potential effectiveness of the provisions of law on sexual assault
prevention and response offered by Senators who are members of the Committee on
Armed of the Senate in the markup by the Committee of the Bill to enact the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, and not adopted by the
Committee during that markup for that Bill, including the provisions seeking to
establish or amend requirements and authorities relating to sexual assault
prevention and
response.
.
(b)
Assessment as
additional duties of panel on judicial proceedings
Paragraph (2)
of such section is amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (L); and
(2)
by inserting
after subparagraph (I) the following new subparagraphs:
(J)
Monitor and
assess the implementation of the provisions of law on judicial proceedings in
connection with sexual assault in the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014, including provisions amending
chapter 47
of title 10, United
States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and provisions establishing
or amending other requirements and authorities relating to such judicial
proceedings.
(K)
Assess the potential effectiveness of the
provisions of law on judicial proceedings on sexual assault offered by Senators
who are members of the Committee on Armed of the Senate in the markup by the
Committee of the Bill to enact the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014, and not adopted by the Committee during that markup for that
Bill, including provisions seeking to amend
chapter 47
of title 10, United
States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and provisions seeking to
establish or amend other requirements and authorities relating to such judicial
proceedings.
.
(c)
Transmittal of
provisions offered but not adopted
The Chairman and Ranking
Member of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate shall jointly transmit
to the independent panels established pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of
section 576(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
(126 Stat. 1758) the applicable provisions of law offered by Senators who are
members of the Committee on Armed of the Senate in the markup by the Committee
of the Bill to enact this Act, and not adopted by the Committee during that
markup for that Bill, for purposes of the discharge by such panels of the
additional duties arising under the amendments made by subsections (a) and
(b).
546.
Assessment of
compensation and restitution of victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice as additional duty of independent panel on review and
assessment of judicial proceedings of sexual assault cases
Paragraph (2) of section 576(d) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
;
126 Stat. 1761), as amended by section 545(b) of this Act, is further
amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subparagraph (L) as subparagraph (M); and
(2)
by inserting
after subparagraph (K) the following new subparagraph (L):
(L)
Assess the
adequacy of the provision of compensation and restitution for victims of
offenses under chapter 47, of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of
Military Justice), and develop recommendations on expanding such compensation
and restitution, including consideration of the options as follows:
(i)
Providing the
forfeited wages of incarcerated members of the Armed Forces to victims of
offenses as compensation.
(ii)
Including bodily
harm among the injuries meriting compensation for redress under section 939 of
title 10, United States Code (article 139 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice).
(iii)
Requiring
restitution by members of the Armed Forces to victims of their offenses upon
the direction of a
court-martial.
.
II
Related Military
Justice Matters
551.
Elimination of
five-year statute of limitations on trial by court-martial for additional
offenses involving sex-related crimes
(a)
In
general
Subsection (a) of
section 843
of title 10, United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice), is amended by striking
rape, or rape of a
child
and inserting
rape or sexual assault, or rape or sexual
assault of a child
.
(b)
Conforming
amendment
Subsection (b)(2)(B)(i) of such section (article) is
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
,
unless the offense is covered by subsection (a)
.
(c)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect
to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
552.
Review of decisions
not to refer charges of certain sexual offenses to trial by
court-martial
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall require the Secretaries of
the military departments to provide for review of decisions not to refer
charges to trial by court-martial in cases where a specified sexual offense has
been alleged by a victim of the alleged offense.
(b)
Specified
sexual offenses
For purposes of this section, a specified sexual
offense is any of the following:
(1)
Rape or sexual
assault under subsection (a) or (b) of
section 920
of title 10, United States
Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(2)
Forcible sodomy
under
section 925
of title 10, United States Code (article 125 of the Uniform
Code of Military Justice).
(3)
An attempt to
commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) or (2) as punishable under section
880 of title 10, United States Code (article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice).
(c)
Review of cases
not referred to court-martial following staff judge advocate recommendation of
referral for trial
In any case where a staff judge advocate,
pursuant to
section 834
of title 10, United States Code (article 34 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice), recommends that charges of a specified
sexual offense be referred to trial by court-martial and the convening
authority decides not to refer the charges to a court-martial, the convening
authority shall forward the case file to the Secretary of the military
department concerned for review as a superior authorized to exercise general
court-martial convening authority.
(d)
Review of cases
not referred to court-martial following staff judge advocate recommendation not
to refer for trial
In any case where a staff judge advocate,
pursuant to
section 834
of title 10, United States Code (article 34 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice), recommends that charges of a specified
sexual offense should not be referred to trial by court-martial and the
convening authority decides not to refer the charges to a court-martial, the
convening authority shall forward the case file for review by a superior
commander authorized to exercise general court-martial convening
authority.
(e)
Elements of
case file
A case file forwarded to higher authority pursuant to
subsection (c) or (d) shall include the following:
(1)
All charges and
specifications preferred under
section 830
of title 10, United States Code
(article 30 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(2)
All reports of
investigations of such charges, including the military criminal investigative
organization investigation report and the investigating officer’s report under
section 832
of title 10, United States Code (article 32 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice).
(3)
The written
advice of the staff judge advocate to the convening authority pursuant to
section 834
of title 10, United States Code (article 34 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice), together with a certification by the staff judge advocate as
to whether the facts as reported by the victim of the alleged offense or
complaining witness, if true, would or would not constitute a specified sexual
offense.
(4)
A written
statement explaining the reasons for the convening authority’s decision not to
refer the charges to trial by court-martial.
(5)
A certification
that the victim of the alleged offense or complaining witness was informed of
the convening authority’s decision to forward the case as provided in
subsection (c) or (d).
(f)
Notice on
results or review
The victim of the alleged offense shall be
notified of the results of the review conducted under subsection (c) or (d) in
the manner prescribed by the victims and witness assistance program of the
Armed Force concerned.
(g)
Allegation of
specified sexual offense
The Secretary of Defense shall require
the Secretaries of the military departments to develop a system to ensure that
a victim of an alleged offense has an opportunity to specify that the offense
alleged is a specified sexual offense either at the time of making an
unrestricted report of the allegation or during the criminal investigation of
the allegation.
553.
Defense counsel
interview of complaining witnesses in presence of trial counsel or outside
counsel
Section 846 of title
10, United States Code (article 46 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is
amended—
(1)
by inserting
(a)
Opportunity To obtain
witnesses and other evidence
.—
before
The trial
counsel
;
(2)
by striking
Process issued
and inserting the following:
(c)
Process
Process
issued
;
and
(3)
by inserting
after subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1), the following new
subsection (b):
(b)
Interview of
complaining witnesses by defense counsel
(1)
Upon notice by trial
counsel to defense counsel of the name and address of the complaining witness
or witnesses trial counsel intends to call to testify in any portion of an
investigation under section 832 of this title (article 32) or a court-martial
under this chapter, defense counsel shall make all requests to interview any
such complaining witness through trial counsel.
(2)
If requested by a complaining witness
subject to a request for interview under paragraph (1), any interview of the
witness by defense counsel shall take place only in the presence of trial
counsel, counsel for the witness, or outside
counsel.
.
554.
Mandatory
discharge or dismissal for certain sex-related offenses under the Uniform Code
of Military Justice and trial of such offenses by general
courts-martial
(a)
Mandatory
discharge or dismissal required
(1)
In
general
Section 856
of title 10, United States Code (article 56
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(A)
by inserting
(a)
before
The punishment
; and
(B)
by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
(b)
While a person
subject to this chapter who is found guilty of an offense under section 920,
920b, or 925 of this title (article 120, 120b, or 125) or an attempt to commit
such an offense as punishable under section 880 of this title (article 80)
shall be punished as a general court-martial may direct, such punishment must
include, at a minimum, dismissal or dishonorable
discharge.
.
(2)
Clerical
amendments
(A)
Section
heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as
follows:
856.
Art. 56.
Maximum and minimum
limits
.
(B)
Table of
sections
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter
VIII of chapter 47 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to
section 856 and inserting the following new item:
856. Art. 56. Maximum and minimum
limits.
.
(b)
Jurisdiction
limited to general courts-martial
Section 818 of such title
(article 18 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(a)
before the first sentence;
(2)
in the third
sentence, by striking
However, a general court-martial
and
inserting the following:
(b)
A general
court-martial
;
and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
(c)
Consistent with
section 810, 820, and 856(b) of this title (articles 19, 20, and 56(b)), only
general courts-martial have jurisdiction over an offense specified in section
856(b)(2) of this title (article
56(b)(2)).
.
(c)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
555.
Limitation on
authority of convening authority to modify findings of a court-martial
(a)
Limitation of
authority to offenses that would not normally warrant trial by
court-martial
Subsection (c) of
section 860
of title 10, United
States Code (article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is
amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(3)—
(A)
by inserting
may be taken
after
findings of a
court-martial
;
(B)
by striking
is not required. However,
and inserting
only with respect
to a qualified offense. With respect to such an offense,
;
(C)
by striking
may—
and all that follows through
(A) dismiss
and
inserting
may dismiss
;
(D)
by striking
; or
and inserting a period; and
(E)
by striking
subparagraph (B); and
(2)
by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
(4)
(A)
In paragraph (3), the
term
qualified offense
means, except as provided in subparagraph
(B), an offense under this chapter for which—
(i)
the maximum sentence of confinement
that may be adjudged does not exceed one year; and
(ii)
the sentence adjudged does not
include dismissal, a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, or confinement for
more than six months.
(B)
Such term does not include the
following:
(i)
An offense under section 920 of this
title (article 120).
(ii)
An offense under section 920a of this
title (article 120a).
(iii)
An offense under section 920b of
this title (article 120b).
(iv)
An offense under section 920c of this
title (article 120c).
(v)
Such other offenses as the Secretary
of Defense may prescribe by
regulation.
.
(b)
Requirement for
explanation in writing
Such subsection is further amended by
adding after paragraph (4), as added by subsection (a)(2), the following new
paragraph:
(5)
If the convening authority or other
person authorized to act under this section modifies the findings or sentence
of a court-martial, such person shall prepare a written explanation for such
modification. Such explanation shall be made a part of the record of trial and
action
thereon.
.
(c)
Conforming
amendment
Subsection (e)(3) of such section (article) is amended
in the first sentence by inserting
(if authorized to do so under
subsection (c))
after
findings and sentence
.
(d)
Effective
date
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (c) shall apply
with respect to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
556.
Participation by
complaining witnesses in clemency phase of courts-martial process
Section 860(b)
of title 10, United States
Code (article 60(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(5)
(A)
If an accused elects to
submit matters for consideration by the convening authority under this
subsection, a copy of any portion of such matters that refers to a complaining
witness shall be provided to the complaining witness before the convening
authority takes any action on the findings or sentence under this
section.
(B)
(i)
Upon receipt of matters
under this paragraph, a complaining witness shall have 10 days to submit
materials in response to such matters to the convening authority.
(ii)
If a complaining witness shows that
additional time is required for submission of materials under this
subparagraph, the convening authority or other person taking action under this
section, for good cause, may extend the applicable period for submission of
such materials for not more than an additional 20 days.
(6)
In any case in which findings and
sentence have been adjudged for an offense involving a complaining witness, the
complaining witness shall be provided an opportunity to submit matters to the
convening authority for consideration prior to taking action under this
section.
(7)
The convening authority shall not
consider under this section any submitted matters that go to the character of a
complaining witness unless such matters were presented at the
court-martial.
.
557.
Secretary of
Defense report on modifications to the Uniform Code of Military Justice to
prohibit sexual acts and contacts between military instructors and
trainees
(a)
Report
required
Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of
Representatives a report setting forth the recommendations of the Secretary for
such legislative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to modify
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military
Justice), to prohibit sexual acts and contacts between military instructors and
their trainees.
(b)
Covered
military instructors
For purposes the report required by this
section, military instructors shall include the following:
(1)
Drill Sergeants
in the Army.
(2)
Drill Instructors
in the Marine Corps.
(3)
Recruit Division
Commanders in the Navy.
(4)
Military Training
instructors in the Air Force.
(5)
Company
Commanders in the Coast Guard.
(6)
Such other
members of the Armed Forces as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes
of the report as having supervisory authority over new recruits in the Armed
Forces undergoing basic training (or its equivalent).
558.
Sense of
Senate on disposition of charges involving certain sexual misconduct offenses
under the Uniform Code of Military Justice through courts-martial
(a)
Sense of
Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
any charge
regarding an offense specified in subsection (b) should be disposed of by
court-martial, rather than by non-judicial punishment or administrative action;
and
(2)
in the case of
any charge regarding an offense specified in subsection (b) that is disposed of
by non-judicial punishment or administrative action, rather than by
court-martial, the disposition authority should include in the case file a
justification for the disposition of the charge by non-judicial punishment or
administrative action, rather than by court-martial.
(b)
Covered
offenses
An offense specified in this subsection is any of the
following offenses under
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the
Uniform Code of Military Justice):
(1)
Rape or sexual
assault under subsection (a) or (b) of section 920 of such chapter (article 120
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(2)
Forcible sodomy
under section 925 of such chapter (article 125 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice).
(3)
An attempt to
commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) or (2), as punishable under
section 880 of such chapter (article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice).
559.
Sense of Senate on
the discharge in lieu of court-martial of members of the Armed Forces who
commit sexual-related offenses
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the Armed Forces
should be sparing in discharging in lieu of court-martial members of the Armed
Forces who have committed rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or attempts to
commit such offenses, and should do so only when the facts of the case clearly
warrant such discharge;
(2)
whenever
possible, the victims of offenses referred to in paragraph (1) should be
consulted prior to the determination regarding whether to discharge the members
who committed such offenses;
(3)
commanding
officers should consider the views of victims of offenses referred to in
paragraph (1) when determining whether to discharge the members who committed
such offenses in lieu of trying such members by court-martial; and
(4)
the discharge of
any member who is discharged as described in paragraph (1) should be
characterized as Other Than Honorable.
III
Other Military
Justice and Legal Matters
561.
Modification of
eligibility for appointment as Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for
the Armed Forces
(a)
Modification
Section 942(b)
of title 10, United States
Code (article 142(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is
amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
from civilian life
; and
(2)
by striking
paragraph (4) and inserting the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
A person may not be appointed as a
judge of the court within seven years after relief from active duty as a
commissioned officer of a regular component of an armed
force.
.
(b)
Effective
date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to
appointments to the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces that
occur on or after that date.
562.
Repeal of the
offense of consensual sodomy under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice
(a)
Restatement of
Article 125 with consensual sodomy omitted
Section 925 of title
10, United States Code (article 125 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice),
is amended to read as follows:
925. Art
125.
Forcible sodomy; bestiality
(a)
Forcible
sodomy
Any person subject to this chapter who engages in
unnatural carnal copulation with another person of the same or opposite sex by
force or without the consent of the other person is guilty of forcible sodomy
and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
(b)
Bestiality
Any
person subject to this chapter who engages in unnatural carnal copulation with
an animal is guilty of bestiality and shall be punished as a court-martial may
direct.
(c)
Scope of
offenses
Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
an offense under subsection (a) or
(b).
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter X
of
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military
Justice), is amended by striking the item relating to section 925 (article 125)
and inserting the following new item:
925. Art 125. Forcible sodomy;
bestiality.
.
563.
Prohibition of
retaliation against members of the Armed Forces for reporting a criminal
offense
(a)
Regulations on
prohibition of retaliation required
The Secretary of Defense
shall, not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
prescribe regulations, or require the Secretaries of the military departments
to prescribe regulations, that prohibit retaliation against an alleged victim
or other member of the Armed Forces who reports a criminal offense. The
regulations shall prescribe that a violation of the regulations is an offense
punishable under
section 892
of title 10, United States Code (article 92 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(b)
Report
Not
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the recommendations
of the Secretary as to whether
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the
Uniform Code of Military Justice), should be amended to prohibit retaliation
against an alleged victim or other member of the Armed Forces who reports a
criminal offense.
(c)
Retaliation
For
purposes of this section, retaliation shall include, as a minimum, taking or
threatening to take any adverse personnel action, or failing to take or
threatening not to take a favorable personnel action, with respect to a member
of the Armed Forces because the member reported a criminal offense.
564.
Extension of
crime victims' rights to victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice
(a)
In
general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall recommend to the President
modifications to the Manual for Courts-Martial, and prescribe such other
regulations as the Secretary considers appropriate, to enforce the rights of
victims of military crimes as specified in subsection (b) and to ensure
compliance by responsible members of the Armed Forces and personnel of the
Department of Defense with the obligations to enforce such rights.
(b)
Rights
The
rights of victims of military crimes specified in this subsection are the
following rights:
(1)
The right to be
reasonably protected from the accused.
(2)
The right to
reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any public proceeding in an
investigation under
section 832
of title 10, United States Code (article 32 of
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), court-martial, involuntary plea hearing,
pre-sentencing hearing, or parole hearing involving the offense or of any
release or escape of the accused.
(3)
The right not to
be excluded from any public proceeding referred to in paragraph (2) unless the
military judge or investigating officer, as applicable, after receiving clear
and convincing evidence, determines that testimony by the victim would be
materially altered if the victim heard other testimony at that
proceeding.
(4)
The right to be
reasonably heard at any public proceeding referred to in paragraph (2).
(5)
The reasonable
right to confer with the trial counsel in the case.
(6)
The right to full
and timely restitution as provided in law.
(7)
The right to
proceedings free from unreasonable delay.
(8)
The right to be
treated with fairness and with respect for the victim's dignity and
privacy.
(c)
Victims
(1)
In
general
For purposes of the recommendations and regulations
required by subsection (a), a victim of a military crime shall be any person
who has suffered direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of
the commission of—
(A)
an offense under
chapter 47 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice; or
(B)
a violation of
any other law if any portion of the investigation of such violation is
conducted primarily by an element of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Underage,
incompetent, and other individual victims
For such purposes, in
the case of a victim who is under 18 years of age, incompetent, incapacitated,
or deceased, a victim of a military crime includes one of the following (in
order of precedence): a spouse, legal guardian, parent, child, sibling, another
family member, or another person designated by the military judge or other
appropriate authority.
(3)
Institutional
entity victims
For such purposes, if a victim is an institutional
entity, the victim of a military crime is an authorized representative of the
entity.
(4)
Governmental
entities excluded
For such purposes, departments and agencies of
the Federal Government, and agencies of State and local governments, are not
victims of military crimes.
(d)
Mechanisms for
affording rights
The recommendations and regulations required by
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Mechanisms for
ensuring that victims of military crimes are afforded the rights specified in
subsection (b) in all applicable proceedings.
(2)
Mechanisms for
ensuring that members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel of the
Department of Defense (including military judges, trial counsel, military
criminal investigation organizations, services, and personnel, and other
members and personnel of the Department of Defense engaged in the detection,
investigation, or prosecution of offenses under
chapter 47
of title 10, United
States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice)) make their best efforts to
see that victims of military crimes are notified of, and accorded, the rights
specified in subsection (b) in all applicable proceedings.
(3)
Mechanisms for
the enforcement of such rights, including such mechanisms for application for
such rights and for consideration and disposition of applications for such
rights as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
(4)
The designation
of an authority within the Department of Defense to receive and investigate
complaints relating to the provision or violation of the rights of victims of
military crimes.
(5)
Disciplinary
sanctions for members of the Armed Forces and other personnel of the Department
of Defense who willfully or wantonly fail to comply with requirements relating
to the rights of victims of military crimes.
(6)
Such other
mechanisms as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
565.
Modification
of Manual for Courts-Martial to eliminate factor relating to character and
military service of the accused in rule on initial disposition of
offenses
Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the discussion pertaining to
Rule 306 of the Manual for Courts-Martial (relating to policy on initial
disposition of offenses) shall be amended to strike the character and military
service of the accused from the matters a commander should consider in deciding
how to dispose of an offense.
F
Defense
Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
571.
Continuation
of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of
members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian
employees
(a)
Assistance to
schools with significant numbers of military dependent
students
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
year 2014 by section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for
Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301,
$25,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of providing assistance to
local educational agencies under subsection (a) of section 572 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
; 20 U.S.C.
7703b).
(b)
Local
educational agency defined
In this section, the term
local
educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 8013(9) of
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7713(9)
).
572.
Impact aid for
children with severe disabilities
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2014 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in
section 4301, $5,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as
enacted into law by
Public Law 106–398
; 114 Stat. 1654A–77; 20 U.S.C.
7703a).
G
Decorations and
Awards
581.
Matters
relating to Medals of Honor and other medals of high precedence for members of
the Armed Forces
(a)
Repeal of
limitation on number of Medals of Honor awardable to a member
(1)
Army
Section
3744(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
medal of
honor, distinguished-service cross, or
and inserting
distinguished-service cross or
.
(2)
Navy and Marine
Corps
Section 6247 of such title is amended by striking
medal of honor,
.
(3)
Air
Force
Section 8744(a) of such title is amended by striking
medal of honor, Air Force cross, or
and inserting
Air
Force cross or
.
(4)
Coast
Guard
Section 494
of title 14, United States Code, is amended by
striking
medal of honor,
both places it appears.
(b)
Standardization
of time-limits for recommending and awarding Medal of Honor, service cross, or
distinguished-service medal across the Armed Forces
(1)
Army
Section
3744 of title 10, United States Code, is further amended—
(A)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
in
paragraph (1), by striking
three years
and inserting
five
years
; and
(ii)
in
paragraph (2), by striking
two years
and inserting
three
years
; and
(B)
in subsection
(d)(1), by striking
two years
and inserting
three
years
.
(2)
Air
Force
Section 8744 of such title is further amended—
(A)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
in
paragraph (1), by striking
three years
and inserting
five
years
; and
(ii)
in
paragraph (2), by striking
two years
and inserting
three
years
; and
(B)
in subsection
(d)(1), by striking
two years
and inserting
three
years
.
582.
Recodification
and revision of Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor
Roll
(a)
Automatic
enrollment and furnishing of certificate
(1)
In
general
Chapter 57
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
1136.
Army, Navy,
Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll
(a)
Establishment
There
shall be in the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the
Department of the Air Force, and the Department of Homeland Security,
respectively, a roll designated as the
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast
Guard Medal of Honor Roll
.
(b)
Enrollment
The
Secretary concerned shall enter and record on such roll the name of each person
who has served on active duty in the armed forces and who has been awarded a
medal of honor pursuant to section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of this title or section
491 of title 14.
(c)
Certificate
(1)
In
general
Each living person whose name is entered on the Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll shall be furnished a
certificate of enrollment on such roll.
(2)
Entitlement to
special pension
The Secretary concerned shall deliver to the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs a certified copy of each certificate of
enrollment issued under paragraph (1). Such copy shall authorize the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to pay the special pension provided by section 1562 of
title 38 to the person named in the
certificate.
.
(2)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 57 of
such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
1136. Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor
Roll.
.
(b)
Special
pension
(1)
Automatic
entitlement
Section 1562(a)
of title 38, United States Code, is
amended—
(A)
by inserting
living
after
each
;
(B)
by striking
subsection (c) of section 1561 of this title
and inserting
section 1136(c)(2) of title 10
; and
(C)
by striking
application therefor under section 1560 of this title
and
inserting
such person's name is entered on the Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll under section 1136(b) of title
10
.
(2)
Election to
decline special pension
Section 1562 of such title is further
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
(1)
A person who is
entitled to a special pension under subsection (a) may elect not to receive
such special pension by notifying the Secretary of such election in
writing.
(2)
The Secretary, upon receipt of such
election, shall cease payments of the special pension to such
person.
.
(3)
Technical
amendment
Section 1562(a) of such title is further amended by
striking
roll
and inserting
Roll
.
(c)
Conforming
amendments
(1)
Repeal of
superseded provisions
Sections
1560
and
1561
of title 38, United
States Code, are repealed.
(2)
Clerical
amendments
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 15
of such title is amended by striking the items relating to sections 1560 and
1561.
(d)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall be effective with
respect to medals of honor awarded on or after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
583.
Authority for
award of the Distinguished Service Cross to Robert F. Keiser for valor during
the Korean War
(a)
Waiver of time
limitations
Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in
section 3744
of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with
respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed
Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the Distinguished Service Cross
under section 3742 of that title to Robert F. Keiser for the acts of valor
referred to in subsection (b).
(b)
Action
described
The acts of valor referred to in subsection (a) are the
actions of Robert F. Keiser as a member of the 2d Military Police Company, 2d
Infantry Division during the Korean War.
584.
Authority for
award of the Distinguished Service Cross to Sergeant First Class Patrick N.
Watkins, Jr., for acts of valor during the Vietnam War
(a)
Waiver of time
limitations
Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in
section 3744
of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with
respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed
Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the Distinguished Service Cross
under section 3742 of that title to Patrick N. Watkins, Jr., for the acts of
valor referred to in subsection (b).
(b)
Action
described
The acts of valor referred to in subsection (a) are the
actions of Sergeant First Class Patrick N. Watkins, Jr., from August 22 to
August 23, 1968, as a member of the United States Army serving in the grade of
Sergeant First Class in the Republic of Vietnam while serving with Headquarters
and Headquarters Company, 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne), 1st Special
Forces Regiment.
H
Other
Matters
591.
Additional
requirements for accounting for members of the Armed Forces and Department of
Defense civilian employees listed as missing
Section 1501(a)(1)
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph
(B), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph
(C), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
coordination of periodic briefing of
families of missing persons about the efforts of the Department of Defense to
account for those
persons.
.
592.
Expansion of
privileged information authorities to debriefing reports of certain recovered
persons who were never placed in a missing status
(a)
Expansion of
covered reports
Section 1506
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1)
in subsection
(d)—
(A)
by redesignating
paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting
after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
The Secretary concerned shall
withhold from personnel files under this section, as privileged information,
any survival, evasion, resistance, and escape debriefing report provided by a
person described in section 1501(c) of this title who is returned to United
States control which is obtained under a promise of confidentiality made for
the purpose of ensuring the fullest possible disclosure of
information.
;
and
(2)
in subsection
(f), by striking
paragraphs (2) and (3)
and inserting
paragraphs (3) and (4)
.
(b)
Definition
applicable to covered reports
Section 1513 of such title is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(9)
The term
survival, evasion, resistance, and escape debriefing
means an
interview conducted with a person described in section 1501(c) of this title
who is returned to United States control in order to record the person's
experiences while surviving, evading, resisting interrogation or exploitation,
or
escaping.
.
VI
Compensation and
Other Personnel Benefits
A
Pay and
Allowances
601.
Fiscal year
2014 increase in military basic pay
(a)
Waiver of
section 1009 adjustment
The adjustment to become effective during
fiscal year 2014 required by
section 1009
of title 37, United States Code, in
the rates of monthly basic pay authorized members of the uniformed services
shall not be made.
(b)
Increase in
Basic Pay
Effective on January 1, 2014, the rates of monthly
basic pay for members of the uniformed services are increased by 1
percent.
602.
Repeal of
authority relating to commencement of basic pay for members of the National
Guard called into Federal service for less than 30 days
(a)
Repeal
Section
204 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection
(c).
(b)
Effective
date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to members
of the National Guard who are called into Federal service for a period of less
than 30 days on or after that date.
603.
Extension of
authority to provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for housing
under certain circumstances
Section 403(b)(7)(E)
of title 37, United
States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and
inserting
December 31, 2014
.
B
Bonuses and
Special and Incentive Pays
611.
One-year
extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for reserve
forces
The following sections
of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31,
2013
and inserting
December 31, 2014
:
(1)
Section 308b(g),
relating to Selected Reserve reenlistment bonus.
(2)
Section 308c(i),
relating to Selected Reserve affiliation or enlistment bonus.
(3)
Section 308d(c),
relating to special pay for enlisted members assigned to certain high-priority
units.
(4)
Section
308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment bonus for persons without
prior service.
(5)
Section 308h(e),
relating to Ready Reserve enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with
prior service.
(6)
Section 308i(f),
relating to Selected Reserve enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with
prior service.
(7)
Section 910(g),
relating to income replacement payments for reserve component members
experiencing extended and frequent mobilization for active duty service.
612.
One-year
extension of certain bonus and special pay authorities for health care
professionals
(a)
Title 10
authorities
The following sections of title 10, United States
Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December 31, 2014
:
(1)
Section
2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate accession program.
(2)
Section 16302(d),
relating to repayment of education loans for certain health professionals who
serve in the Selected Reserve.
(b)
Title 37
authorities
The following sections of title 37, United States
Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December 31, 2014
:
(1)
Section
302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention bonuses for
psychologists.
(2)
Section
302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for registered nurses.
(3)
Section
302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay for nurse anesthetists.
(4)
Section 302g(e),
relating to special pay for Selected Reserve health professionals in critically
short wartime specialties.
(5)
Section
302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for dental officers.
(6)
Section 302j(a),
relating to accession bonus for pharmacy officers.
(7)
Section 302k(f),
relating to accession bonus for medical officers in critically short wartime
specialties.
(8)
Section 302l(g),
relating to accession bonus for dental specialist officers in critically short
wartime specialties.
613.
One-year
extension of special pay and bonus authorities for nuclear
officers
The following
sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December 31,
2014
:
(1)
Section 312(f),
relating to special pay for nuclear-qualified officers extending period of
active service.
(2)
Section 312b(c),
relating to nuclear career accession bonus.
(3)
Section 312c(d),
relating to nuclear career annual incentive bonus.
614.
One-year
extension of authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay,
incentive pay, and bonus authorities
The following sections of title 37, United
States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and
inserting
December 31, 2014
:
(1)
Section 331(h),
relating to general bonus authority for enlisted members.
(2)
Section 332(g),
relating to general bonus authority for officers.
(3)
Section 333(i),
relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for nuclear
officers.
(4)
Section 334(i),
relating to special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for
officers.
(5)
Section 335(k),
relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for officers in health
professions.
(6)
Section 351(h),
relating to hazardous duty pay.
(7)
Section 352(g),
relating to assignment pay or special duty pay.
(8)
Section 353(i),
relating to skill incentive pay or proficiency bonus.
(9)
Section 355(h),
relating to retention incentives for members qualified in critical military
skills or assigned to high priority units.
615.
One-year
extension of authorities relating to payment of other title 37 bonuses and
special pays
The following
sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December 31,
2014
:
(1)
Section 301b(a),
relating to aviation officer retention bonus.
(2)
Section 307a(g),
relating to assignment incentive pay.
(3)
Section 308(g),
relating to reenlistment bonus for active members.
(4)
Section 309(e),
relating to enlistment bonus.
(5)
Section 324(g),
relating to accession bonus for new officers in critical skills.
(6)
Section 326(g),
relating to incentive bonus for conversion to military occupational specialty
to ease personnel shortage.
(7)
Section 327(h),
relating to incentive bonus for transfer between Armed Forces.
(8)
Section 330(f),
relating to accession bonus for officer candidates.
616.
Correction of
citation for extension of reimbursement authority for travel expenses for
inactive-duty training outside of normal commuting distance and additional
one-year extension
(a)
Correction of
erroneous citation to former provision
Effective as of January 2, 2013, and as if
included therein as enacted, section 611(7) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1776) is
amended by striking
Section 408a(e)
and inserting
Section
478a(e)
.
(b)
Additional
one-year extension
Section
478a(e) of title 37, United States Code, as amended by section 611(7) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, as corrected by
subsection (a), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December 31, 2014
.
617.
Expansion to
all reserve components of stipend for registered nurses in critical specialties
under health professions stipend program
Section 16201(d)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new subparagraph
(B):
(B)
is eligible for appointment as a
Reserve officer for service in a reserve component in a Nurse Corps or as a
nurse; and
;
and
(2)
in paragraph (2),
by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new subparagraph
(B):
(B)
the participant shall not be eligible
to receive such stipend before being appointed as a Reserve officer for service
in the Ready Reserve in a Nurse Corps or as a nurse;
and
.
C
Travel and
Transportation Allowances
631.
Technical and
standardizing amendments to Department of Defense travel and transportation
authorities in connection with reform of such authorities
(a)
Escorts of
dependents of members
(1)
Incorporation
of escorts of dependents under general authority
Section
451(a)(2)(C) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting before
the period the following:
or as an escort or attendant for dependents of
a member of the armed forces for necessary travel performed not later than one
year after the member is unable to accompany the dependents who are incapable
of traveling alone
.
(2)
Repeal of
superseded authority
(A)
Section 1036 of title
10, United States Code, is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning
of chapter 53 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section
1036.
(b)
Travel and
transportation of dependent patients
Section 1040
of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a)(1), by striking
round-trip transportation
and all that
follows through
may be paid at the expense of the United States
and inserting
travel and transportation allowances may be furnished
necessary attendants. The dependents and any attendants shall be provided such
travel and transportation allowances as specified in regulations prescribed
under
section 464
of title 37.
; and
(2)
by striking
subsection (d).
(c)
Travel in
connection with leave cancelled due to contingency operations
(1)
Incorporation
of expenses under general authority
Section 453
of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(g)
Reimbursement
for travel in connection with leave cancelled due to contingency
operations
A member may be reimbursed as specified in regulations
prescribed under section 464 of this title for travel and related expenses
incurred by the member as a result of the cancellation of previously approved
leave when the leave is cancelled in conjunction with the member's
participation in a contingency operation and the cancellation occurs within 48
hours of the time the leave would have commenced. The settlement for
reimbursement under this subsection is final and
conclusive.
.
(2)
Repeal of
superseded authority
(A)
Section 1053a of title
10, United States Code, is repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning
of chapter 53 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section
1053a.
(d)
Travel and
transportation for travel for specialty health care
Section 1074i
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a), by striking
reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses
and inserting
travel and transportation allowances as specified in
regulations prescribed under
section 464
of title 37
; and
(2)
in subsection
(b), striking
Reimbursement for travel under exceptional
circumstances
.—The Secretary of Defense may provide
reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses of
and inserting
Allowable travel and
transportation under exceptional circumstances
.—The Secretary
of Defense may provide travel and transportation allowances as specified in the
regulations referred to in subsection (a) for
.
(e)
Travel and
transportation in connection with the disposition of remains of
members
Section 1482(a)(8)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking
and roundtrip transportation and prescribed
allowances
and inserting
and travel and transportation
allowances as specified in regulations prescribed under section 464 of title
37
.
(f)
Travel and
transportation in connection with funeral honors functions at funerals for
veterans
Section 1491(d)(1)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking
transportation (or reimbursement for transportation)
and expenses
and inserting
travel and transportation allowances
as specified in regulations prescribed under section 464 of title
37
.
(g)
Repeal of
redundant authority on motor vehicle transportation or storage for members
undergoing PCS or extended deployment
(1)
Repeal
Section
2634 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(2)
Clerical
amendment
The table of section at the beginning of chapter 157 of
such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2634.
(h)
Clarification
of limitation on transportation of household goods
Section
453(c)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
(including packing, crating, and household goods in temporary
storage)
and inserting
(including household goods in temporary
storage, but excluding packing and crating)
.
D
Disability,
Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits
641.
Clarification
of prevention of retired pay inversion in the case of members whose retired pay
is computed using high-three
(a)
Clarification
Subsection
(f) of
section 1401a
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
by striking
Prevention of retired pay
inversions
.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the
and inserting
Prevention of retired pay inversions for members with retired pay
computed using final basic pay
.—The
; and
(B)
by inserting
who first became a member of a uniformed service before September 8,
1980, and
after
of an armed force
;
(2)
by redesignating
paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
(3)
by inserting
after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Prevention of
retired pay inversions for members with retired pay computed using
high-three
Subject to subsections (d) and (e), the monthly
retired pay of a member or former member of an armed force who first became a
member of a uniformed service on or after September 8, 1980, may not be less,
on the date on which the member or former member initially becomes entitled to
such pay, than the monthly retired pay to which the member or former member
would be entitled on that date if the member or former member had become
entitled to retired pay on an earlier date, adjusted to reflect any applicable
increases in such pay under this section. However, in the case of a member or
former member whose retired pay is computed subject to section 1407(f) of this
title, paragraph (1) (rather than the preceding sentence) shall apply in the
same manner as if the member or former member first became a member of a
uniformed service before September 8, 1980, but only with respect to a
calculation as of the date on which the member or former member first became
entitled to retired
pay.
.
(b)
Cross-reference
amendments
Such section is further amended by striking
subsection (f)(2)
in subsections (c)(1), (c)(2), (d), and (e)
and inserting
subsection (f)(3)
.
(c)
Applicability
Paragraph
(2) of
section 1401a(f)
of title 10, United States Code, as added by the
amendment made by subsection (a)(3), applies to the computation of retired pay
or retainer pay of any person who first became a member of a uniformed service
on or after September 8, 1980, regardless of when the member first becomes
entitled to retired or retainer pay.
(d)
Technical
amendments
Such section is further amended by striking
before the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2008
in subsections (d) and (e) and inserting
before
January 28, 2008
.
642.
Effect on
division of retired pay of election to receive combat-related special
compensation after previous election to receive concurrent retirement and
disability compensation
(a)
In
general
Section 1414(d)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Payments before
election to receive combat-related special compensation
(A)
An election by a member
pursuant to paragraph (2) to change from receipt of retired pay in accordance
with this section to receipt of special compensation in accordance with section
1413a of this title shall not affect payments made before the date of such
election to the member’s spouse or former spouse pursuant to section 1408 of
this title of disposable retired pay that a court treated as property for the
purpose of issuing a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal
separation, including a court ordered, ratified, or approved property
settlement incident to such decree.
(B)
In this paragraph:
(i)
The term
court
has the
meaning given such term in section 1408(a)(1) of this title.
(ii)
The term
disposable retired
pay
has the meaning given such term in section 1408(a)(4) of this
title.
(iii)
The term
final
decree
has the meaning given such term in section 1408(a)(3) of this
title.
(iv)
The term
member
has
the meaning given such term in section 1408(a)(5) of this title.
(v)
The term
spouse or former
spouse
has the meaning given such term in section 1408(a)(6) of this
title.
.
(b)
Applicability
Paragraph
(3) of
section 1414(d)
of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), shall apply with respect to payments made under
section 1408
of title 10,
United States Code, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
643.
Survivor
Benefit Plan annuities for special needs trusts established for the benefit of
dependent children incapable of self-support
(a)
Special needs
trust as eligible beneficiary
(1)
In
general
Subsection (a) of
section 1450
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating
paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(B)
by inserting
after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
Special needs
trusts for sole benefit of certain dependent
children
Notwithstanding subsection (i), a supplemental or
special needs trust established under subparagraph (A) or (C) of section
1917(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4)
) for the sole
benefit of a dependent child considered disabled under section 1614(a)(3) of
that Act (
42 U.S.C. 1382c(a)(3)
) who is incapable of self-support because of
mental or physical incapacity.
.
(2)
Conforming
amendment
Subsection (i) of such section is amended by inserting
(a)(4) or
after
subsection
.
(b)
Regulations
Section
1455(d) of such title is amended—
(1)
in the subsection
caption, by striking
and
fiduciaries
and inserting
, fiduciaries, and special needs
trusts
;
(2)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph
(A), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph
(B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
and
(C)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
a dependent child
incapable of self-support because of mental or physical incapacity for whom a
supplemental or special needs trust has been established under subparagraph (A)
or (C) of section 1917(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1396p(d)(4)).
;
(3)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
by redesignating
subparagraphs (C) through (H) as subparagraphs (D) through (I),
respectively;
(B)
by inserting
after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph (C):
(C)
In the case of an
annuitant referred to in paragraph (1)(C), payment of the annuity to the
supplemental or special needs trust established for the
annuitant.
;
(C)
in subparagraph
(D), as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking
subparagraphs (D) and (E)
and inserting
subparagraphs (E)
and (F)
; and
(D)
in subparagraph
(H), as so redesignated—
(i)
by
inserting
or (1)(C)
after
paragraph (1)(B)
in the
matter preceding clause (i);
(ii)
in
clause (i), by striking
and
at the end;
(iii)
in clause (ii),
by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
and
(iv)
by
adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
procedures for
determining when annuity payments to a supplemental or special needs trust
shall end based on the death or marriage of the dependent child for which the
trust was established.
; and
(4)
in paragraph (3),
by striking
or
fiduciary
in the paragraph caption and inserting
, fiduciary, or
trust
.
644.
Periodic
notice to members of the Ready Reserve on early retirement credit earned for
significant periods of active Federal status or active duty
Section 12731(f)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
The Secretary concerned shall
periodically notify each member of the Ready Reserve described by paragraph (2)
of the current eligibility age for retired pay of such member under this
section, including any reduced eligibility age by reason of the operation of
that paragraph. Notice shall be provided by such means as the Secretary
considers appropriate taking into account the cost of provision of notice and
the convenience of
members.
.
645.
Preservation
of retiree dependent status for certain dependents upon death or permanent
incapacitation of the retired member on whom dependent status is
based
Section 1060b(a) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
(3)
In the case of an individual who is
treated as a retiree dependent described in paragraph (1)(B) on the date on
which the member providing the basis for such individual's dependent status
under this section dies or becomes permanently incapacitated, no further
certification of the individual as a retiree dependent on the basis of
dependency for financial support shall be required or carried out for purposes
of this section on or after that
date.
.
E
Military Lending
Matters
661.
Enhanced role
for the Department of Justice under the Military Lending Act
(a)
Enforcement by
the Attorney General
Subsection (f) of
section 987
of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
(7)
Enforcement by
the Attorney General
(A)
In
general
The Attorney General may commence a civil action in any
appropriate district court of the United States against any person who—
(i)
engages in a
pattern or practice of violating this section; or
(ii)
engages in a
violation of this section that raises an issue of general public
importance.
(B)
Relief
In
a civil action commenced under subparagraph (A), the court—
(i)
may grant any
appropriate equitable or declaratory relief with respect to the violation of
this section;
(ii)
may award all
other appropriate relief, including monetary damages, to any person aggrieved
by the violation; and
(iii)
may, to
vindicate the public interest, assess a civil penalty—
(I)
in an amount not
exceeding $110,000 for a first violation; and
(II)
in an amount not
exceeding $220,000 for any subsequent violation.
(C)
Intervention
Upon
timely application, a person aggrieved by a violation of this section with
respect to which the civil action is commenced may intervene in such action,
and may obtain such appropriate relief as the person could obtain in a civil
action under paragraph (5) with respect to that violation, along with costs and
a reasonable attorney fee.
(D)
Issuance and
service of civil investigative demands
Whenever the Attorney
General, or a designee, has reason to believe that any person may be in
possession, custody, or control of any documentary material relevant to an
investigation under this section, the Attorney General, or a designee, may,
before commencing a civil action under subparagraph (A), issue in writing and
cause to be served upon such person, a civil investigative demand
requiring—
(i)
the production of
such documentary material for inspection and copying;
(ii)
that the
custodian of such documentary material answer in writing written questions with
respect to such documentary material; or
(iii)
the production
of any combination of such documentary material or answers.
(E)
Relationship to
False Claims Act
The statutory provisions governing the authority
to issue, use, and enforce civil investigative demands under section 3733 of
title 31 (known as the
False Claims Act
) shall govern the
authority to issue, use, and enforce civil investigative demands under
subparagraph (D), except that—
(i)
any reference in
that section to false claims law investigators or investigations shall be
applied for purposes of subparagraph (D) as referring to investigators or
investigations under this section;
(ii)
any reference in
that section to interrogatories shall be applied for purposes of subparagraph
(D) as referring to written questions and answers to such need not be under
oath;
(iii)
the statutory
definitions for purposes of that section relating to
false claims
law
shall not apply; and
(iv)
provisions of
that section relating to qui tam relators shall not
apply.
.
(b)
Consultation
with Department of Justice
Subsection (h)(3) of such section is
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(H)
The Department of
Justice.
.
F
Other
Matters
671.
Authority to
provide certain expenses for care and disposition of human remains that were
retained by the Department of Defense for forensic pathology
investigation
(a)
Disposition of
remains of persons whose death is investigated by the Armed Forces Medical
Examiner
(1)
Covered
decedents
Section 1481(a)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(10)
To the extent
authorized under section 1482(g) of this title, any person not otherwise
covered by the preceding paragraphs whose remains (or partial remains) have
been retained by the Secretary concerned for purposes of a forensic pathology
investigation by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner under section 1471 of this
title.
.
(2)
Authorized
expenses relating to care and disposition of remains
Section 1482
of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(g)
(1)
The payment of expenses
incident to the recovery, care, and disposition of the remains of a decedent
covered by section 1481(a)(10) of this title is limited to those expenses that,
as determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, would
not have been incurred but for the retention of those remains for purposes of a
forensic pathology investigation by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner under
section 1471 of this title.
(2)
In a case covered by paragraph (1),
if the person designated under subsection (c) to direct disposition of the
remains of a decedent does not direct disposition of the remains that were
retained for the forensic pathology investigation, the Secretary may pay for
the transportation of those remains to, and interment or inurnment of those
remains in, an appropriate place selected by the Secretary, in lieu of the
transportation authorized to be paid under paragraph (8) of subsection
(a).
(3)
In a case covered by paragraph (1),
expenses that may be paid do not include expenses with respect to an escort
under paragraph (8) of subsection (a), whether or not on a reimbursable
basis.
(4)
The Secretary concerned may pay any
other expenses relating to the remains of such a decedent that are authorized
to be paid under this section only on a reimbursable basis. Amounts reimbursed
to the Secretary concerned under this subsection shall be credited to
appropriations available at the time of reimbursement for the payment of such
expenses.
.
(b)
Clarification
of coverage of inurnment
Section 1482(a)(9) of such title is
amended by inserting
or inurnment
after
Interment
.
(c)
Technical
amendment
Section 1482(f) of such title is amended by striking
the third sentence and inserting the following new sentence:
The
Secretary concerned may pay any other expenses relating to the remains of such
a decedent that are authorized to be paid under this section only on a
reimbursable basis.
.
672.
Extension of
ongoing pilot programs under temporary Army incentive to provide additional
recruitment incentives
Section
681(i) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (10
U.S.C. 503 note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
The Secretary may not
and inserting
Except as
provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may not
;
(2)
by redesignating
paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
(3)
by inserting
after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Authority to
continue certain pilot programs
The Secretary may continue
through December 31, 2015, any pilot program carried out under the authority in
this section that was ongoing as of December 31,
2012.
;
and
(4)
in paragraph (3),
as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section—
(A)
by striking
paragraph (1)
and inserting
this subsection
;
and
(B)
by striking
that paragraph
and inserting
the applicable paragraph of
this subsection
.
VII
Health Care
Provisions
B
Health Care
Administration
711.
Pilot program
on increased collection of third-party reimbursements for health care services
provided in military medical treatment facilities
(a)
Pilot
program
The Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the
Secretaries of the military departments, carry out a pilot program to assess
the feasibility and advisability of using processes described in subsection (b)
to increase the amounts collected under
section 1095
of title 10, United States
Code, from third-party payers for charges for health care services incurred by
the United States at military medical treatment facilities.
(b)
Covered
processes
The processes described in this subsection are
commercially available enhanced recovery practices for medical payment
collection, including rates and percentages of collection in accordance with
industry standards for such practices.
(c)
Elements
The
Secretary shall carry out the pilot program so as—
(1)
to facilitate the
identification and analysis of best practices in connection with the processes
described in subsection (b) that are used in nonmilitary health care
facilities; and
(2)
to permit a
cost-benefit analysis of the processes used under the pilot program, including
an analysis of—
(A)
the amount of
third-party collections that resulted from such processes;
(B)
the cost to
implement and sustain such processes; and
(C)
such other
matters as the Secretary considers appropriate for the pilot program.
(d)
Location
The
Secretary shall carry out the pilot program at not less than two military
installations of different military departments each of which meets the
following criteria:
(1)
Such installation
has a military medical treatment facility with both inpatient and outpatient
capabilities.
(2)
The catchment
area of such installation contains a significant-sized military beneficiary
population who are potentially covered by third-party payers (as defined in
section 1095(h)(1)
of title 10, United States Code).
(e)
Duration
The
Secretary shall commence the pilot program by not later than 270 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, and shall carry out the pilot program for
two years.
(f)
Report
Not
later than 180 days after the completion of the pilot program, the Secretary
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot
program. The report shall include the following:
(1)
A description of
the pilot program.
(2)
A comparative
description of—
(A)
the processes
described in subsection (b) that were used in the military medical treatment
facilities included in the pilot program; and
(B)
third-party
collection processes used by similar military medical treatment facilities not
included in the pilot program.
(3)
An assessment of
the feasibility and advisability of using processes described in subsection (b)
to increase the amounts collected from third-party payers for charges for
health care services incurred by the United States at military medical
treatment facilities, including a cost-benefit analysis of the implementation
of such processes for third-party collections for health care services at
military medical treatment facilities.
(4)
Such
recommendations for legislative or administrative action to improve third-party
collections for health care services at military medical treatment facilities
as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program.
712.
Sense of Senate on
implementation of integrated electronic health records for the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Findings
The Senate makes the following
findings:
(1)
The electronic
health records systems used by the Department of Defense and the Department of
Veterans Affairs have been independently developed and implemented by each
Department. As a result, and despite more than 15 years of efforts including
numerous initiatives and programs, full interoperability between the systems
has yet to be achieved.
(2)
The lack of full
interoperability between the health records systems negatively impacts members
of the Armed Forces who separate from military service and transition to
veteran status. Medical records may be lost, requiring patients to repeat
tests, increase overall costs, and further exacerbate the backlog of disability
claims at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3)
The Government
Accountability Office has identified several problems that the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs face in their efforts to achieve
full interoperability of their health records systems. The Government
Accountability Office points to the failure of the Departments to define
performance goals and measures that would allow for program management and
assessment of progress. The Government Accountability Office also highlights
inadequate management in the Departments and the Interagency Program Office,
which oversees the integration of Department of Defense and Department of
Veterans Affairs medical records.
(4)
The National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 directed the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to jointly develop and implement
fully interoperable health record capabilities by September 30, 2009.
(b)
Sense of
Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
despite clear
congressional direction, years of effort, and the expenditure of significant
resources, full electronic interoperability between the health records systems
of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs has not
been achieved;
(2)
the Secretary of
Defense, in collaboration with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, should fully
staff the Interagency Program Office and provide it with a robust charter
meeting the original intent of Congress;
(3)
the Secretary of
Defense, in collaboration with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, should
establish challenging, but achievable, deadlines for the development and
implementation of measures and goals for electronic health records for the
Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, including
measures and goals relating to—
(A)
the creation of a
health data authoritative source;
(B)
the ability of
patients of both the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans
Affairs to download their medical records (commonly referred to as the
Blue Button Initiative
);
(C)
the full
interoperability of personal health care information between the
Departments;
(D)
the
standardization of health care data between the Departments;
(E)
the acceleration
of the exchange of real-time health care data between the Departments;
(F)
the upgrade of
the graphical user interface to display the new standardized health care data
of the Departments; and
(G)
the provision to
members of the Armed Forces of access to an electronic copy of their health
care records throughout the course of their military career; and
(4)
the Interagency
Program Office should establish a secure, remote, network-accessible computer
storage system (commonly referred to as
cloud storage
)
to—
(A)
provide members
of the Armed Forces and veterans the ability to upload their health care
records; and
(B)
allow medical
providers of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs
to access such records in the course of providing care to members of the Armed
Forces and veterans.
C
Reports and Other
Matters
721.
Report on provision
of advanced prosthetics and orthotics to members of the Armed Forces and
veterans
(a)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the
plans of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs,
respectively, to ensure that the most clinically appropriate prosthetics and
orthotics are made available to injured members of the Armed Forces and
veterans using technological advances as appropriate.
(b)
Covered
prosthetics and orthotics
The prosthetics and orthotics to be
covered by the report under subsection (a) shall include, but not be limited
to, powered prosthetics and orthotics that will enable members of the Armed
Forces and veterans who have suffered amputation and, in the case of orthotics
wearers, other injuries with limb salvage, to restore functionality to the
maximum extent practicable.
(c)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of
Representatives.
VIII
Acquisition
Policy, Acquisition Management, and Related Matters
A
Acquisition
Policy and Management
801.
Restatement
and revision of requirements applicable to multiyear defense acquisitions to be
specifically authorized by law
(a)
In
general
Subsection (i) of
section 2306b
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(i)
Defense
acquisitions specifically authorized by law
(1)
In the case of the
Department of Defense, a multiyear contract in amount equal to or greater than
$500,000,000 may not be entered into under this section unless the contract is
specifically authorized by law in an Act other than an appropriations
Act.
(2)
In submitting a request for a
specific authorization by law to carry out a defense acquisition program using
multiyear contract authority under this section, the Secretary shall include in
the request a report containing preliminary findings of the agency head
required in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) together with the
basis for such findings.
(3)
A multiyear contract may not be
entered into under this section for a defense acquisition program that has been
specifically authorized by law to be carried out using multiyear contract
authority unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing, not later than
30 days before entry into the contract, that each of the following conditions
is satisfied:
(A)
The Secretary has determined that each
of the requirements in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) will be met
by such contract and has provided the basis for such determination to the
congressional defense committees.
(B)
The Secretary's determination under
subparagraph (A) was made after the completion of a cost analysis performed by
the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Analysis and such analysis supports
the findings.
(C)
The system being acquired pursuant to
such contract has not been determined to have experienced cost growth in excess
of the critical cost growth threshold pursuant to section 2433(d) of this title
within 5 years prior to the date the Secretary anticipates such contract (or a
contract for advance procurement entered into consistent with the authorization
for such contract) will be awarded.
(D)
A sufficient number of end items of
the system being acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within
the most current estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or procurement
unit cost for such system to determine that current estimates of such unit
costs are realistic.
(E)
During the fiscal year in which such
contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the
contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense program for such
fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the program without
cancellation.
(F)
The contract is a fixed price type
contract.
(G)
The proposed multiyear contract
provides for production at not less than minimum economic rates given the
existing tooling and facilities.
(4)
If for any fiscal year a multiyear
contract to be entered into under this section is authorized by law for a
particular procurement program and that authorization is subject to certain
conditions established by law (including a condition as to cost savings to be
achieved under the multiyear contract in comparison to specified other
contracts) and if it appears (after negotiations with contractors) that such
savings cannot be achieved, but that substantial savings could nevertheless be
achieved through the use of a multiyear contract rather than specified other
contracts, the President may submit to Congress a request for relief from the
specified cost savings that must be achieved through multiyear contracting for
that program. Any such request by the President shall include details about the
request for a multiyear contract, including details about the negotiated
contract terms and conditions.
(5)
(A)
The Secretary may
obligate funds for procurement of an end item under a multiyear contract for
the purchase of property only for procurement of a complete and usable end
item.
(B)
The Secretary may obligate funds
appropriated for any fiscal year for advance procurement under a contract for
the purchase of property only for the procurement of those long-lead items
necessary in order to meet a planned delivery schedule for complete major end
items that are programmed under the contract to be acquired with funds
appropriated for a subsequent fiscal year (including an economic order quantity
of such long-lead items when authorized by law).
(6)
The Secretary may make the
certification under paragraph (3) notwithstanding the fact that one or more of
the conditions of such certification are not met, if the Secretary determines
that, due to exceptional circumstances, proceeding with a multiyear contract
under this section is in the best interest of the Department of Defense and the
Secretary provides the basis for such determination with the
certification.
(7)
The Secretary may not delegate the
authority to make the certification under paragraph (3) or the determination
under paragraph (6) to an official below the level of Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics.
.
(b)
Conforming
amendment
Subsection (a)(7) of such section is amended by
striking
subparagaphs (C) through (F) of paragraph (1) of subsection
(i)
and inserting
subparagraphs (C) through (F) of subsection
(i)(3)
.
(c)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to requests for
specific authorization by law to carry out defense acquisition programs using
multiyear contract authority that are made on or after that date.
802.
Extension of
authority to acquire products and services produced in countries along a major
route of supply to Afghanistan
(a)
Extension
Subsection (f) of section 801 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123
Stat. 2399), as amended by section 841(a) of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1845), is further
amended by striking
December 31, 2014
and inserting
December 31, 2015
.
(b)
Clarification
of authority
Subsection (b)(1)(B) of such section is
amended—
(1)
by striking
and the NATO International Security Assistance Force
and
inserting
or NATO forces
; and
(2)
by striking
to Afghanistan
and inserting
to or from
Afghanistan
.
803.
Report on
program manager training and experience
(a)
Updated report
on program manager training and experience deficiencies
Not later
than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an updated version
of the 2009 Department of Defense report entitled
OSD Study of Program
Manager Training and Experience
. The updated version of the report
shall address the personnel specified in subsection (b).
(b)
Covered
personnel
The personnel to be addressed by the report required by
subsection (a) shall be the acquisition personnel of the Department of Defense
as follows:
(1)
Acquisition
personnel classified as ACAT I personnel.
(2)
Acquisition
personnel classified as ACAT IA personnel.
(3)
Acquisition
personnel classified as ACAT II personnel.
(c)
Elements
The
report required in subsection (a) shall—
(1)
take into
consideration the training, qualifications, and experience of covered personnel
to perform acquisition program management functions for the Department of
Defense;
(2)
summarize
assessments by covered personnel of the practicality and comprehensiveness of
the training provided such personnel in acquisition program management;
(3)
identify,
describe, and analyze trends in the training and experience of covered
personnel in acquisition program management between the time of the report
referred to in subsection (a) and the updated version of the report as required
by subsection (a); and
(4)
set forth such
recommendations for improvements to the training and experience of covered
personnel in acquisition program management as the Secretary considers
appropriate.
B
Provisions
Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs
821.
Synchronization
of cryptographic systems for major defense acquisition programs
(a)
In
general
Section 2366b(a)(3)
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1)
in subparagraph
(F), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
by redesignating
subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); and
(3)
by inserting
after subparagraph (F) the following new subparagraph (G):
(G)
there is a plan
to mitigate and account for any costs in connection with any anticipated
de-certification of cryptographic systems and components during the production
and procurement of the major defense acquisition program to be acquired;
and
.
(b)
Effective
date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to major
defense acquisition programs which are subject to Milestone B approval on or
after that date.
822.
Assessment of
dedicated control system before Milestone B approval of major defense
acquisition programs constituting a space program
(a)
In
general
As part of the
certification required by
section 2366b(a)
of title 10, United States Code,
before Milestone B approval of a space system, the milestone decision authority
shall perform a business case analysis for any new or follow on satellite
system using a dedicated control system instead of a shared control
system.
(b)
Sunset
No
business case analysis is required to be performed under subsection (a) for any
Milestone B approval of a space system after December 31, 2019.
823.
Additional
responsibility for product support managers for major weapon
systems
Section 2337(b)(2) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph
(G), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph
(H), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(I)
ensure that each
product support arrangement for the weapon system states explicitly how such
arrangement will maximize use of government-owned inventory before obtaining
inventory from commercial
sources.
.
824.
Comptroller
General of the United States review of Department of Defense processes for the
acquisition of weapon systems
(a)
Review
required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall carry out a
comprehensive review of the processes and procedures of the Department of
Defense for the acquisition of weapon systems.
(b)
Objective of
review
The objective of the review required by subsection (a)
shall be to identify the following:
(1)
Processes and
procedures that provide little or no value added, or for which any value added
is outweighed by the cost or schedule delay of the processes or
procedures.
(2)
Elements of
organizations and layers of review that are redundant or unnecessary, add cost,
or create schedule delays to the acquisition of weapon systems without adding
commensurate value.
(c)
Report
(1)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on the results of the review required by subsection
(a).
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
(A)
A statement of
any processes, procedures, organizations, or layers of review that are
recommended by the Comptroller General for modification or elimination,
including the rationale for the modification or elimination recommended and the
legislative or administrative action required to carry out the modification or
elimination recommended.
(B)
Such other
findings and recommendations, including recommendations for legislative or
administrative action, as the Comptroller General considers appropriate in
light of the review required by subsection (a).
(3)
Consistency
with WSARA
Any modification or elimination of a process,
procedure, organization, or layer of review recommended in the report required
by paragraph (1) shall be consistent with the requirements of the Weapon
Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (
Public Law 111–23
) and the amendments
made by that Act.
C
Amendments to
General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
841.
Maximum amount
of allowable costs of compensation of contractor employees
(a)
Amendment to
cost principles
Section 2324(e)(1)(P)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
the benchmark
and all that follows through
section 1127
of title 41
and inserting
$487,000 per year, adjusted annually
to reflect the change in the Employment Cost Index for all workers, as
calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
; and
(2)
by striking
scientists and engineers
and inserting
scientists,
engineers, medical professionals, cybersecurity experts, and other workers with
unique areas of expertise
.
(b)
Review
Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall review alternative benchmarks and industry standards for
compensation and provide the congressional defense committees with the views of
the Department of Defense as to whether any such benchmarks or standards would
provide a more appropriate measure of allowable compensation for the purposes
of
section 2324(e)(1)(P)
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by
subsection (a).
(c)
Effective
date
The amendment mades by subsection (a) shall take effect on
January 1, 2014, and shall apply with respect to costs of compensation incurred
on or after that date under contracts entered into before, on, or after that
date.
842.
Implementation
by Department of Defense of certain recommendations of the Comptroller General
of the United States on oversight of pensions offered by Department
contractors
In order to
implement certain of the recommendations of the Comptroller General of the
United States in the January 2013 report entitled
Pension Costs on DOD
Contacts
(GAO–13–158), the Secretary of Defense shall do the
following:
(1)
Assign
responsibility within the Department of Defense for oversight of the
reasonableness of the pension plans offered by Department contractors,
including, in specific, the value of benefits earned by participants in such
pension plans.
(2)
Issue guidance on
the measurement of the value of pension benefits that participants earn in a
given year in order to permit the Department to obtain a comprehensive
understanding of the total compensation provided employees by Department
contractors.
(3)
Issue guidance on
the extent to which defined benefit pension plans are to be included in
assessments of the reasonableness of compensation for executives of Department
contractors.
(4)
Issue guidance
for the acquisition organizations of the Department, including the Defense
Contract Management Activity and the Defense Contract Audit Activity, on the
discount rate or rates that are acceptable for Department contractors to use in
calculating person costs for forward pricing purposes.
D
Other
Matters
861.
Extension of
prohibition on contracting with the enemy in the United States Central Command
theater of operations
Section
841(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public
Law 112–81; 125 Stat. 1510;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended by striking
the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this
Act
and inserting
December 31, 2016
.
862.
Prohibition on
contracting with the enemy
(a)
Authority To
terminate or void contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements and To restrict
future award
(1)
Identification
of persons and entities
The Secretary of Defense shall designate
in each geographic combatant command an element to carry out intelligence
missions within the area of responsibility of such combatant command outside
the United States to identify persons and entities that—
(A)
provide funds
received under a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement of the Department of
Defense directly or indirectly to a person or entity who is supporting a force
within the area of responsibility of such combatant command against which the
United States is actively engaged in hostilities in accordance with the law of
armed conflict; or
(B)
fail to exercise
due diligence to ensure that none of the funds received under a contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement of the Department of Defense are provided
directly or indirectly to a person or entity who is supporting a force within
the area of responsibility of such combatant command against which the United
States is actively engaged in hostilities in accordance with the law of armed
conflict.
(2)
Notice on
supporters identified
Upon the identification of a person or
entity as meeting subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1), the element making
the identification shall notify the commander of the combatant command
concerned, and any deputies of the commander specified by the commander for
purposes of this section, of such identification of such person or
entity.
(3)
Responsive
actions
Upon receipt of a notice under paragraph (2), the
commander of the combatant command concerned may, in consultation with the
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, and the appropriate Chief of Mission,
notify the heads of appropriate contracting activities, in writing, of such
identification and request that the heads of such contracting activities
exercise the authorities provided pursuant to paragraph (4) and in the Federal
Acquisition Regulation, as revised pursuant to subsection (b), with respect to
any contract, grant, or cooperative agreement that provides funding directly or
indirectly to the person or entity covered by the notice.
(4)
Authorities
Not
later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal
Acquisition Regulation to authorize the head of contracting activity in each
geographic combatant command, pursuant to a request from the commander of a
combatant command under paragraph (3)—
(A)
to restrict the
award of Department of Defense contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements
that such head of contracting activity determines in writing would provide
funding directly or indirectly to a person or entity that has been identified
by the commander as supporting a force within the area of responsibility of
such combatant command against which the United States is actively engaged in
hostilities in accordance with the law of armed conflict;
(B)
to terminate for
default any Department contract, grant, or cooperative agreement upon a written
determination by such head of contracting activity that the contractor, or the
recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement, has failed to exercise due
diligence to ensure that none of the funds received under the contract, grant,
or cooperative agreement are provided directly or indirectly to a person or
entity that has been identified by a commander of a combatant command as
supporting a force within the area of responsibility of such combatant command
against which the United States is actively engaged in hostilities in
accordance with the law of armed conflict; or
(C)
to void in whole
or in part any Department contract, grant, or cooperative agreement upon a
written determination by such head of contracting activity that the contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement provides funding directly or indirectly to a
person or entity that has been identified by a commander of a combatant command
as supporting a force within the area of responsibility of such combatant
command against which the United States is actively engaged in hostilities in
accordance with the law of armed conflict
(b)
Contract
clause
(1)
In
general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised to require
that—
(A)
the clause
described in paragraph (2) shall be included in each covered contract, grant,
and cooperative agreement of the Department of Defense that is awarded on or
after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(B)
to the maximum
extent practicable, each covered contract, grant, and cooperative agreement of
the Department of Defense that is awarded before the date of the enactment of
this Act shall be modified to include the clause described in paragraph
(2).
(2)
Clause
described
The clause described in this paragraph is a clause
that—
(A)
requires the
contractor, or the recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement, to exercise
due diligence to ensure that none of the funds received under the contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement are provided directly or indirectly to a person
or entity that has been identified by a commander of a combatant command as
supporting a force within the area of responsibility of such combatant command
against which the United States is actively engaged in hostilities in
accordance with the law of armed conflict; and
(B)
notifies the
contractor, or the recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement, of the
authority of the head of the contracting activity to terminate or void the
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement, in whole or in part.
(3)
Covered
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement
In this subsection, the
term
covered contract, grant, or cooperative agreement
means a
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with an estimated value in excess of
$20,000.
(4)
Treatment as
void
For purposes of subsection (a)(4) and the exercise under
subsection (a)(3) of the authorities in the Federal Acquisition Regulation
pursuant to this subsection:
(A)
A contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement that is void is unenforceable as contrary to
public policy.
(B)
A contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement that is void in part is unenforceable as
contrary to public policy with regard to a segregable task or effort under the
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement.
(c)
Requirements
following contract actions
Not later than 30 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be
revised as follows:
(1)
To require that
any head of contracting activity taking an action pursuant to subsection (a)(3)
or (a)(4) to terminate, void, or restrict a contract, grant, or cooperative
agreement notify in writing the contractor or recipient of the grant or
cooperative agreement, as applicable, of the action.
(2)
To permit, in
such manner as the Federal Acquisition Regulation as so revised shall provide,
the contractor or recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement subject to an
action taken pursuant to subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4) to terminate or void the
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement, as the case may be, an opportunity
to contest the action within 30 days of receipt of notice of the action.
(d)
Annual
review
The commanders of the geographic combatant commands
covered by subsection (a) shall, on an annual basis, review the lists of
persons and entities previously identified pursuant to subsection (a)(1) in
order to determine whether or not such persons and entities continue to warrant
identification pursuant to that subsection. If a commander determines pursuant
to such a review that a person or entity no longer warrants identification
pursuant to subsection (a)(1), the commander shall notify the heads of
contracting activities of the Department of Defense in writing of such
determination.
(e)
Protection of
classified information
Classified information relied upon to make
an identification pursuant to subsection (a)(1) may not be disclosed to a
contractor or a recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement with respect to
which an action is taken pursuant to subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4), or to their
representatives, in the absence of a protective order issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction established under Article I or Article III of the
Constitution of the United States that specifically addresses the conditions
upon which such classified information may be so disclosed.
(f)
Delegation of
certain responsibilities
(1)
Responsibilities
relating to identification and review
The commander of a
geographic combatant command may delegate the responsibilities in subsection
(a)(3) to any deputies of the commander specified by the commander pursuant to
that subsection. The commander may delegate under any responsibilities under
subsection (d) to the deputy commander of the combatant command. Any delegation
of responsibilities under this paragraph shall be made in writing.
(2)
Nondelegation
of responsibility for contract actions
The authority provided by
subsections (a)(3) and (a)(4) to terminate, void, or restrict contracts,
grants, and cooperative agreements may not be delegated below the level of head
of contracting activity.
(g)
Inclusion of
information on contract actions in FAPIIS
Upon the termination,
voiding, or restriction of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement pursuant
to subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4), the head of contracting activity concerned
shall provide for the inclusion in the Federal Awardee Performance and
Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), or other formal system of records on
contractors or entities, of appropriate information on the termination,
voiding, or restriction, as the case may be, of the contract, grant, or
cooperative agreement.
(h)
Reports
(1)
In
general
Not later than March 1 each year, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the
use of the authorities in this section in the preceding calendar year,
including the following:
(A)
For each instance
in which a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement was terminated or voided,
or entry into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements was restricted,
pursuant to subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4), the following:
(i)
An
explanation of the basis for the action taken.
(ii)
The value of the
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement terminated or voided.
(iii)
The value of
all contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of the Department of Defense
in force with the person or entity concerned at the time the contract, grant,
or cooperative agreement was terminated or voided.
(iv)
Information on
how the goods or services covered by the terminated or voided contract, grant,
or cooperative agreement were otherwise obtained by the commander of the
combatant command concerned.
(B)
For each instance
in which a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement of a person or entity
identified pursuant to subsection (a)(2) was not terminated or voided pursuant
to subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4), or the future award of contracts, grants, and
cooperative agreements to such person or entity was not restricted pursuant to
subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4), an explanation why such action was not
taken.
(2)
Form
Any
report under this subsection may be submitted in classified form.
(i)
Other
definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
combatant command
means a command established pursuant to chapter
6 of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
The term
head of contracting activity
has the meaning given that term in
subpart 601 of part 1 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(j)
Sunset
The
provisions of this section shall cease to be effective on December 31,
2018.
863.
Report on the
elimination of improper payments
(a)
Secretary of
Defense report on Department of Defense plan of action
(1)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report setting forth the plan of action of the
Department of Defense to achieve the following:
(A)
Implementation of
the recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States in the May
2013 report GAO 13–227 entitled
Significant Improvements Needed in
Efforts to Address Improper Payment Requirements
.
(B)
Reduction of
occurrences of improper payments by the Department of Defense.
(2)
Information on
recommendations not To be implemented
If the plan of action does
not provide for implementation of one or more of the recommendations of the
Comptroller General described in paragraph (1)(A), the report shall include a
description of each such recommendation and a detailed statement of the reasons
why the plan of action does not include implementation of such
recommendation.
(b)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the
House of Representatives.
IX
Department of
Defense Organization and Management
A
Department of
Defense Management
901.
Under
Secretary of Defense for Management
(a)
Conversion of
position of Deputy Chief Management Officer to position of Under Secretary of
Defense for Management
(1)
In
general
Chapter 4 of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating section 137a as section
137b; and
(B)
by inserting
after section 137 the following new section 137a:
137a.
Under
Secretary of Defense for Management
(a)
Appointment
There
is an Undersecretary of Defense for Management, appointed from civilian life by
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Under
Secretary shall be appointed from among persons who have an extensive
management background, as well as a concrete understanding of Department of
Defense business operations.
(b)
Responsibility
for discharge of certain statutory position requirements
(1)
In addition to the
responsibilities specified in subsection (c), the Under Secretary of Defense
for Management is also the following:
(A)
The Deputy Chief Management Officer of
the Department of Defense.
(B)
The Performance Improvement Officer of
the Department of Defense.
(C)
The Chief Information Officer of the
Department of Defense.
(2)
In the capacity of Chief Information
Officer of the Department of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Management shall exercise authority, direction, and control over the
Information Assurance Directorate of the National Security Agency.
(c)
General
responsibilities
The Under Secretary of Defense for Management is
responsible, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary
of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the role of the Deputy
Secretary as Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, for—
(1)
supervising the
management of the business operations of the Department of Defense and
adjudicating issues and conflicts in functional domain business
policies;
(2)
establishing
business strategic planning and performance management policies and the
Department of Defense Strategic Management Plan;
(3)
establishing
business information technology portfolio policies and overseeing investment
management of that portfolio for the Department of Defense; and
(4)
establishing
end-to-end process and standards policies and the Business Enterprise
Architecture.
(d)
Precedence
The
Under Secretary of Defense for Management takes precedence in the Department of
Defense after the Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence.
.
(2)
Conforming
repeal of superseded authority
Section 132a of such title is
repealed.
(3)
Continuation of
office
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 137a of title
10, United States Code (as amended by paragraph (1)), the individual serving in
the position of Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense as
of the date of the enactment of this Act may serve as Under Secretary of
Defense for Management under that section until a successor is appointed Under
Secretary of Defense for Management as specified in that subsection.
(b)
Clarification
of order of precedence for the Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of
Defense
Subsection (d) of
section 137b of such title, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this
section, is amended by striking
and the Deputy Chief Management Officer
of the Department of Defense
and inserting
the Under Secretary
of Defense for Management, and the officials serving in the positions specified
in section 131(b)(4) of this title
.
(c)
Technical and
conforming amendments
(1)
In
general
Title 10, United States Code, is further amended as
follows:
(A)
In section
131(b)—
(i)
in
paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(F)
The Under
Secretary of Defense for
Management.
;
(ii)
by
striking paragraph (3); and
(iii)
by
redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as paragraphs (3) through (7),
respectively.
(B)
In section
186—
(i)
in
subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new
paragraph (2):
(2)
The Under
Secretary of Defense for Management.
;
and
(ii)
in
subsection (b), by striking
the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the
Department of Defense
and inserting
the Under Secretary of
Defense for Management
.
(C)
In section 2222,
by striking
the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of
Defense
each place it appears in subsections (c)(2)(E), (d)(3),
(f)(1)(D), (f)(1)(E), and (f)(2)(E) and inserting
the Under Secretary of
Defense for Management
.
(2)
Clerical
amendments
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of
such title is amended—
(A)
by striking the
item relating to section 132a; and
(B)
by striking the
item relating to section 137a and inserting the following new items:
137a. Under Secretary of Defense for Management.
137b. Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of
Defense.
.
(3)
Executive
schedule matters
Section 5314
of title 5, United States Code, is
amended by striking the item relating to the Deputy Chief Management Office of
the Department of Defense and inserting the following new item:
Under
Secretary of Defense for
Management.
.
902.
Supervision of
Command Acquisition Executive of the United States Special Operations Command
by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics
(a)
In
general
Section
167(e)(4)(C)(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the matter
preceding subclause (I) by inserting after
who shall
the
following:
, subject to the direction of the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics for acquisition programs expected to
require the expenditure of at least $75,000,000 in research, development, test,
and evaluation funds or such other programs as the Under Secretary shall
designate as having high technology risk,
.
(b)
Designation of
responsible official in Office of USD for ATL
Not later than 90
days after the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall designate an official within the
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics who shall be responsible for providing oversight and direction to the
Command Acquisition Executive of the United States Special Operations
Command.
903.
Council on
Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications
System
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In
general
Chapter 7
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after section 171 the following new section:
171a.
Council on
Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications
System
(a)
Establishment
There
is hereby established within the Department of Defense a council to be known as
the
Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control,
and Communications System
(in this section referred to as the
Council
).
(b)
Membership
The
members of the Council shall be as follows:
(1)
The
Undersecretary of Defense for Policy.
(2)
The Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
(3)
The Vice Chairman
of the Joint Staff.
(4)
The Chief
Information Officer of the Department of Defense.
(5)
Such other
officers of the Department of Defense as the Secretary may designate.
(c)
Co-Chair
The
Council shall be co-chaired by the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics.
(d)
Responsibilities
(1)
The Council shall be
responsible for oversight of the command, control, and communications system
for the national leadership of the United States, including nuclear command,
control, and communications.
(2)
In carrying out the responsibility
specified in paragraph (1), the Council shall be responsible for the following
with respect to the command, control, and communications system referred to in
that paragraph:
(A)
Oversight of performance assessments
(including interoperability).
(B)
Vulnerability identification and
mitigation.
(C)
Architecture development.
(D)
Resource prioritization.
(E)
Such other responsibilities as the
Secretary of Defense shall specify for purposes of this section.
(e)
Annual
reports
At the same time each year the budget of the President
for the fiscal year beginning in such year is submitted to Congress under
section 1105(a)
of title 31, the Council shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the activities of the Council. Each report shall
include the following:
(1)
A description and
assessment of the activities of the Council during the previous fiscal
year.
(2)
A description of
the activities proposed to be undertaken by the Council during the period of
the current fiscal-years defense program under section 221 of this
title.
(f)
National
leadership of the United States defined
In this section, the term
national leadership of the United States
means the
following:
(1)
The
President.
(2)
The Vice
President.
(3)
Such other
civilian officials of the United States Government as the President shall
designate for purposes of this
section.
.
(2)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 of
such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 171 the
following new item:
171a. Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command,
Control, and Communications
System.
.
(b)
Report on
establishment
Not later than 60 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report on the Council on Oversight of the
National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System established by
section 171a
of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)),
including the following:
(1)
The charter and
organizational structure of the Council.
(2)
Such
recommendations for legislative action as the Secretary considers appropriate
to improve the authorities relating to the Council.
(3)
A funding plan
over the period of the current future-years defense program under section 221
of title 10, United States Code, to ensure a robust and modern nuclear command,
control, and communications capability.
904.
Transfer of
administration of Ocean Research Advisory Panel from Department of the Navy to
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(a)
Authority for
Ocean Research Advisory Panel
Subsection (a) of section 7903 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the matter
preceding paragraph (1)—
(A)
by inserting
, through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration,
after
The Council
;
(B)
by striking
Panel consisting
and inserting
Panel. The Panel shall
consist
; and
(C)
by striking
chairman
and inserting
Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, on behalf of the
Council
;
(2)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
National Academy of Science
and inserting
National Academies
; and
(3)
by striking
paragraphs (2) and (3); and
(4)
by redesignating
paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.
(b)
Responsibilities
of panel
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
by inserting
, through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration,
after
The Council
;
(2)
by redesignating
paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(3)
by striking
paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs (2) and (3):
(2)
To advise the
Council on the determination of scientific priorities and needs.
(3)
To provide the
Council strategic advice regarding national ocean program execution and
collaboration.
.
(c)
Funding to
support activities of panel
Subsection (c) of such section is
amended by striking
Secretary of the Navy
and inserting
Secretary of Commerce
.
905.
Streamlining
of Department of Defense management headquarters
(a)
Plan
required
Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense
shall develop a plan for streamlining Department of Defense management
headquarters by reducing the size of staffs, eliminating tiers of management,
cutting functions that provide little or no added value, and consolidating
overlapping and duplicative programs and offices.
(b)
Scope of
plan
The plan required by subsection (a) shall specifically
address staffing and services provided by military personnel, civilian
personnel, and contractor personnel to each of the following:
(1)
The Office of the
Secretary of Defense.
(2)
The Joint
Staff.
(3)
The Defense
Agencies.
(4)
The Department of
Defense field activities.
(5)
The headquarters
of the combatant commands.
(6)
Headquarters,
Department of the Army, including the Office of the Secretary of the Army, the
Office of the Chief of Staff of the Army, and the Army Staff.
(7)
The major command
headquarters of the Army.
(8)
The Office of the
Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and
Headquarters, United States Marine Corps.
(9)
The major command
headquarters of the Navy and the Marine Corps.
(10)
Headquarters,
Department of the Air Force, including the Office of the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Office of the Air Force Chief of Staff, and the Air Staff.
(11)
The major
command headquarters of the Air Force.
(12)
The National
Guard Bureau.
(c)
Savings
objective
The objective of the plan required by subsection (a)
shall be to reduce aggregate spending by the Department for management
headquarters by not less than $100,000,000,000 over a ten fiscal-year period
beginning with fiscal year 2015.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Initial
report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees
the plan required by subsection (a).
(2)
Status
report
The Secretary shall include with the Department of Defense
materials submitted to Congress with the budget of the President for each of
fiscal years 2016 through 2025 (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section
1105 of title 31, United States Code) a report describing the implementation of
the plan required by subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year and any
modifications to the plan required due to changing circumstances. Each such
report shall include the following:
(A)
A summary of
savings achieved for each organization covered by the plan in the fiscal year
covered by such report.
(B)
A description of
the amount saved through reductions in military personnel, civilian personnel,
and contract services personnel in the fiscal year covered by such
report.
(C)
In any case in
which savings under the plan fall short of the objective of the plan for the
fiscal year covered by such report, an explanation of the reasons for the
shortfall.
(D)
A description of
any modifications to the plan made during the fiscal year covered by such
report, and an explanation of the reasons for such modifications.
906.
Update of
statutory statement of functions of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
relating to doctrine, training, and education
(a)
In
general
Paragraph (5) of
section 153(a)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph
(B), by inserting
and technical standards, and executing
actions,
after
policies
;
(2)
in subparagraph
(C), by striking
and training
; and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraphs:
(D)
Formulating policies for concept
development and experimentation for the joint employment of the armed
forces.
(E)
Formulating policies for gathering,
developing, and disseminating joint lessons learned for the armed
forces.
.
(b)
Conforming
amendment
The heading of such paragraph is amended by striking
Doctrine, training, and
education
and inserting
Joint force development
activities
.
907.
Modification
of reference to major Department of Defense headquarters activities
instruction
Section 194(f) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
Directive
5100.73
and all that follows and inserting
Instruction 5100.73,
entitled
Major DoD Headquarters Activities
.
.
B
Space
Activities
921.
Limitation on
use of funds for Space Protection Program
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2014 by section 201 for the Department of Defense for research,
test, development, and evaluation, Air Force, and available for the Space
Protection Program (PE# 0603830F) as specified in the funding table in section
4201, $10,000,000 may not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of
Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a copy of the study
conducted at the direction of the Deputy Secretary of Defense on the counter
space strategy of the Department of Defense that resulted in significant
revisions to that strategy by the Department.
C
Intelligence-Related
Matters
931.
Personnel
security
(a)
Comparative
analysis
(1)
In
general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Director of
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, submit to Congress a report setting
forth a comprehensive analysis comparing the cost, schedule, and performance of
personnel security clearance investigations and reinvestigations for employees
and contractor personnel of the Department of Defense that are conducted by the
Office of Personnel Management with the cost, schedule, and performance of
personnel security clearance investigations and reinvestigations for such
personnel that are conducted by the components of the Department of
Defense.
(2)
Elements of
analysis
The analysis under paragraph (1) shall do the
following:
(A)
Determine, for
each of the Office of Personnel Management and the components of the Department
that conduct personnel security investigations, the cost, schedule, and
performance associated with personnel security investigations and
reinvestigations of each type and level of clearance, and identify the elements
that contribute to such cost, schedule, and performance.
(B)
Identify
mechanisms for permanently improving the transparency of the cost structure of
personnel security investigations and reinvestigations.
(b)
Personnel
security for Department of Defense employees and contractors
(1)
In
general
If the Secretary of Defense determines that the current
approach for obtaining personnel security investigations and reinvestigations
for employees and contractor personnel of the Department of Defense is not the
most advantageous approach for the Department, the Secretary shall develop a
plan, by not later than October 1, 2014, for the transition of personnel
security investigations and reinvestigations to the approach preferred by the
Secretary.
(2)
Considerations
In
selecting the most advantageous approach preferred for the Department under
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider whether cost, schedule, and
performance could be improved through increased reliance on private-sector
entities to conduct, or provide supporting information for, personnel security
investigations and reinvestigations for employees and contractor personnel of
the Department.
(c)
Strategy for
continuous modernization of personnel security
(1)
Strategy
required
The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National
Intelligence shall jointly develop and implement a strategy to continuously
modernize all aspects of personnel security for the Department of Defense with
the objectives of lowering costs, increasing efficiencies, enabling and
encouraging reciprocity, and improving security.
(2)
Metrics
(A)
Metrics
required
In developing the strategy required by paragraph (1),
the Secretary and the Director shall jointly establish metrics to measure the
effectiveness of the strategy in meeting the objectives specified in that
paragraph.
(B)
Report
At
the same time the budget of the President for each of fiscal years 2015 through
2018 is submitted to Congress pursuant to
section 1105
of title 31, United
States Code, the Secretary and the Director shall jointly submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the metrics established under
paragraph (1), including an assessment using the metrics of the effectiveness
of the strategy in meeting the objectives specified in paragraph (1).
(3)
Elements
In
developing the strategy required by paragraph (1), the Secretary and the
Director shall consider, and may adopt, mechanisms for the following:
(A)
Elimination of
manual or inefficient processes in investigations and reinvestigations for
personnel security, wherever practicable, and automating and integrating the
elements of the investigation process, including in the following:
(i)
The
clearance application process.
(ii)
Case
management.
(iii)
Adjudication
management.
(iv)
Investigation
methods for the collection, analysis, storage, retrieval, and transfer of data
and records.
(v)
Records
management for access and eligibility determinations.
(B)
Elimination or
reduction, where possible, of the use of databases and information sources that
cannot be accessed and processed automatically electronically, or modification
of such databases and information sources, if appropriate and cost-effective,
to enable electronic access and processing.
(C)
Access and
analysis of government, publically available, and commercial data sources,
including social media, that provide independent information pertinent to
adjudication guidelines to improve quality and timeliness, and reduce costs, of
investigations and reinvestigations.
(D)
Use of
government-developed and commercial technology for continuous monitoring and
evaluation of government and commercial data sources that can identify and flag
information pertinent to adjudication guidelines and eligibility
determinations.
(E)
Standardization
of forms used for routine reporting required of cleared personnel (such as
travel, foreign contacts, and financial disclosures) and use of continuous
monitoring technology to access databases containing such reportable
information to independently obtain and analyze reportable data and
events.
(F)
Establishment of
an authoritative central repository of personnel security information that is
accessible electronically at multiple levels of classification and eliminates
technical barriers to rapid access to information necessary for eligibility
determinations and reciprocal recognition thereof.
(G)
Elimination or
reduction of the scope of, or alteration of the schedule for, periodic
reinvestigations of cleared personnel, when such action is appropriate in light
of the information provided by continuous monitoring or evaluation
technology.
(H)
Electronic
integration of personnel security processes and information systems with
insider threat detection and monitoring systems, and pertinent law enforcement,
counterintelligence and intelligence information, for threat detection and
correlation.
(I)
Determination of
the net value of implementing phased investigative approaches designed to reach
an adjudicative decision sooner than is currently achievable by truncating
investigations based on thresholds where no derogatory information or clearly
unacceptably derogatory information is obtained through initial background
checks.
(4)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(d)
Reciprocity of
clearances
The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National
Intelligence shall jointly ensure that the transition of personnel security
clearances between and among Department of Defense components, Department
contractors, and Department contracts proceeds as rapidly and inexpensively as
possible, including through the following:
(1)
By providing for
reciprocity of personnel security clearances among positions requiring
personnel holding secret, top secret, or sensitive compartmented information
clearances (the latter with a counterintelligence polygraph examination), to
the maximum extent feasible consistent with national security
requirements.
(2)
By permitting
personnel, when feasible and consistent with national security requirements, to
begin work in positions requiring additional security requirements, such as a
full-scope polygraph examination, pending satisfaction of such additional
requirements.
(e)
Benchmarks
For
purposes of carrying out the requirements of this section, the Secretary of
Defense and the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly determine, by
not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
following:
(1)
The current level
of mobility and personnel security clearance reciprocity of cleared personnel
as personnel make a transition between Department of Defense components,
between Department contracts, and between government and the private
sector.
(2)
The costs due to
lost productivity in inefficiencies in such transitions arising from personnel
security clearance matters.
932.
Reports on
clandestine human intelligence collection
(a)
Report on
establishment of military support division in National Clandestine
Service
(1)
In
general
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Director of
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation of the Department of Defense and in
consultation with the Director of National Intelligence (acting through the
Director of the Cost Analysis Improvement Group) and the Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress
an assessment of the savings and added effectiveness to be achieved in
clandestine human intelligence collection by consolidating clandestine human
intelligence collection operations in the National Clandestine Service of the
Central Intelligence Agency through the establishment of a military support
division in the National Clandestine Service.
(2)
Assumption on
supervision of detailed personnel
For the purposes of the
assessment required by paragraph (1), the Secretary and the Director of
National Intelligence shall assume that the military and civilian case officers
and support personnel in the military support division referred to in that
paragraph shall be detailed to the National Clandestine Service under the
supervision of a general or flag officer of the Armed Forces assigned to the
National Clandestine Service.
(3)
Elements
The
assessment required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A determination
whether savings could be achieved through the reduction of overhead and
management by eliminating the clandestine human intelligence (HUMINT)
management element at the Defense Intelligence Agency.
(B)
The development
and use of a methodology for comparing the effectiveness of the ratios of
support personnel to deployed case officers maintained by the Central
Intelligence Agency and the military support division referred to in paragraph
(1), and a recommendation on an optimum ratio of support personnel to deployed
case officers for the military support division.
(C)
A determination
whether institutional and procedural safeguards are available to ensure that
the Department of Defense could rely on the National Clandestine Service, with
the military support division referred to in paragraph (1), to support the
human intelligence collection requirements of the Department, and, if so, a
description of such safeguards.
(D)
A determination
of the advisability of conducting a pilot program on a military support
division within the National Clandestine Service using available
personnel.
(b)
Report on
implementation of Defense Clandestine Service
(1)
In
general
Not later than January 15, 2015, the Director of Cost
Assessment and Program Evaluation shall submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress a report setting forth an assessment of the implementation of the
Defense Clandestine Service through September 30, 2014.
(2)
Elements
The
report required by paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of the
following:
(A)
The commitment
and ability of the Armed Forces to provide and sustain qualified military case
officers and to manage their careers effectively.
(B)
The ability of
the Defense Intelligence Agency to provide effective cover and support for case
officers deployed overseas with the planned ratio of support personnel to case
officers.
(C)
Whether the
locations overseas where capacity exists to deploy additional Department of
Defense case officers can address the human intelligence collection needs of
the Department.
(c)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
933.
Navy
Broad-Area Maritime Surveillance aircraft
(a)
Modification of
radar
The Secretary of
Defense shall take appropriate actions to modify the radar system that will be
deployed on the Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) aircraft fleet of the
Navy to provide a ground moving target indicator collection, processing, and
dissemination capability that is comparable to the performance of such
capability under the Global Hawk Block 40 Multi-Platform Radar Technology
Insertion Program of the Air Force.
(b)
Designation of
aircraft fleet as joint asset
The Secretary shall designate the Broad
Area Maritime Surveillance aircraft fleet of the Navy as a joint asset
available to support operational requirements of the unified combatant
commands, including requirements for ground moving target indicator and signals
intelligence support to commanders of air and ground components.
934.
Plan for
transfer of Air Force C–12 Liberty Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance aircraft
(a)
Plan for
transfer
The Secretary of Defense shall develop and carry out a
plan for the orderly transfer of the Air Force C–12 Liberty Intelligence,
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft to the Army and to the United
States Special Operations Command or one of its component commands.
(b)
Elements
The
plan required by subsection (a) shall—
(1)
ensure that the
transfer does not affect ongoing intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world;
(2)
identify the
appropriate size, composition, and configuration of the fleet of manned
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft of the Army;
(3)
identify the
appropriate size, composition, configuration, and disposition of the remaining
fleet of Air Force C–12 Liberty Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
aircraft;
(4)
provide for the
modification of the Air Force Liberty C–12 Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance aircraft transferred under the plan to meet the long-term needs
of the Army and the United States Special Operations Command; and
(5)
include a
timeline for the orderly transfer of Air Force Liberty C–12 Intelligence,
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance aircraft in manner consistent with the
requirement in paragraph (1).
(c)
Report
Not
later than the date on which the budget of the President for fiscal year 2015
is submitted to Congress pursuant to
section 1105
of title 31, United States
Code, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report on the plan required by subsection (a).
(d)
Prohibition on
acquisition of certain system
The Army may not acquire the
Enhanced Medium Altitude Reconnaissance and Surveillance System in fiscal year
2014.
(e)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
D
Cyberspace-Related
Matters
941.
Authorities,
capabilities, and oversight of the United States Cyber Command
(a)
Assignment of
SIGINT collection authorities
(1)
Determination
of necessity of assignment
The Secretary of Defense shall, in
consultation with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, determine whether the United
States Cyber Command requires signals intelligence (SIGINT) collection
authorities to execute its missions in support of the Department of Defense,
the other combatant commands, and the national cyber defense generally, whether
in peacetime or conflict, including in the operational preparation of the
environment.
(2)
Delegation of
authority
If the Secretary determines pursuant to paragraph (1)
that the United States Cyber Command requires signals intelligence collection
authorities to execute its missions, the Secretary, as the executive agent of
the President for signals intelligence pursuant to Executive Order No. 12333,
shall, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, delegate
appropriate signals intelligence collection authorities to the United States
Cyber Command.
(b)
Provision of
certain operational capabilities
The Secretary shall take such
actions as the Secretary considers appropriate to provide the United States
Cyber Command operational military units with infrastructure and equipment
enabling access to the Internet and other types of networks in order to permit
the United States Cyber Command to conduct its peacetime and wartime missions
independently of the National Security Agency so as to avoid compromising
sources and methods in the execution of military operations.
(c)
Cyber
ranges
(1)
In
general
The Secretary shall review existing cyber ranges and
adapt one or more such ranges, as necessary, to support training and exercises
of cyber units that are assigned to execute offensive military cyber
operations.
(2)
Elements
Each
range so adapted under this subsection shall have the capability to support
offensive military operations against targets that—
(A)
have not been
previously identified and prepared for attack; and
(B)
must be
compromised or neutralized immediately without regard to whether the adversary
can detect and attribute the attack.
(d)
Principal
advisor on offensive military cyber force matters
(1)
Designation
The
Secretary shall designate, from among the existing personnel of the Office of
the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, an official to act as the principal
advisor to the Secretary on offensive military cyber forces. Any official so
designated shall be an official who holds the official's current position by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(2)
Responsibilities
The
official designated under this subsection shall have responsibility for the
following:
(A)
Resource
management and oversight of the organizing, training, and equipping of
offensive military cyber forces, including oversight of the planning,
programming, and budgeting process for such forces.
(B)
Such other
matters relating to offensive military cyber forces as the Secretary shall
specify for purposes of this subsection.
(e)
Training of
cyber personnel
The Secretary shall establish and maintain
training capabilities and facilities in the Armed Forces and, as the Secretary
considers appropriate, at United States Cyber Command, to support the needs of
the Armed Forces and the United States Cyber Command for personnel who are
assigned offensive and defensive cyber missions in the Department of
Defense.
(f)
Sense of
Congress on funding and management of personnel
It is the sense
of Congress that the Secretary should fund and manage personnel of the
Department whose cyber operations responsibilities are primarily offensive in
nature outside of the Military Intelligence Program (MIP) and the Information
Systems Security Program.
942.
Joint software
assurance center for the Department of Defense
(a)
Center
required
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the
establishment of a joint software assurance center for the Department of
Defense (in this section referred to as the
center
).
(2)
Purpose
The
purpose of the center shall be to serve as a joint, Department-wide resource
for efforts of the Department to ensure security in the software developed,
acquired, maintained, and used by the Department.
(b)
Discharge of
establishment
In providing for the establishment of the center,
the Secretary shall consider whether the purpose of the center can be met by an
existing software assurance center in the Department.
(c)
Charter
Not
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall issue a charter for the center. The charter shall set forth the
following:
(1)
The role of the
center in supporting program offices in implementing the supply chain risk
management strategy of the Department.
(2)
The software
assurance expertise and capabilities of the center, including policies,
standards, requirements, best practices, contracting, training, testing, and
code analysis and remediation.
(3)
Requirements for
the discharge by the center, in coordination with the Center for Assured
Software of the National Security Agency, of a program of research and
development to improve automated software code vulnerability analysis and
testing tools.
(4)
Requirements for
the center to procure, manage, and distribute enterprise licenses for automated
software vulnerability analysis tools.
(d)
Report
The
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, at the time of
the submittal to Congress of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2016
(as submitted pursuant to
section 1105
of title 31, United States Code), a
report on the funding and management of the center. The report shall set forth
such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate regarding the
optimal placement of the center within the organizational structure of the
Department, including responsibility for the funding and management of the
center.
943.
Supervision of
the acquisition of cloud computing capabilities for intelligence
analysis
(a)
Supervision
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Under
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Chief Information Officer of the
Department of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight
Council, supervise the following:
(A)
Review,
development, modification, and approval of requirements for cloud computing
solutions for intelligence data analysis and storage by the Armed Forces and
the Defense Agencies, including requirements for cross-domain, enterprise-wide
discovery and correlation of data stored in cloud and non-cloud computing
databases, relational and non-relational databases, and hybrid
databases.
(B)
Review,
development, modification, approval, and implementation of plans for the
competitive acquisition of cloud computing systems or services to meet
requirements described in subparagraph (A), including plans for the transition
from current computing systems to systems or services acquired.
(C)
Development and
implementation of plans to ensure that the cloud systems or services acquired
pursuant to subparagraph (B) are interoperable and universally accessible and
usable through attribute-based access controls.
(D)
Integration of
plans under subparagraphs (B) and (C) with enterprise-wide plans of the Armed
Forces and the Department of Defense for the Joint Information Environment and
the Defense Intelligence Information Environment.
(2)
Direction
The
Secretary shall provide direction to the Armed Forces and the Defense Agencies
on the matters covered by paragraph (1) by not later than March 15,
2014.
(b)
Integration
with intelligence community efforts
The Secretary shall
coordinate with the Director of National Intelligence to ensure that activities
under this section are integrated with the Intelligence Community Information
Technology Enterprise in order to achieve interoperability, information
sharing, and other efficiencies.
944.
Cyber
vulnerabilities of Department of Defense weapon systems and tactical
communications systems
(a)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the
status of the capability of each military department to operate in
non-permissive and hostile cyber environments.
(b)
Elements
The
report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description and
assessment of potential cyber threats or threat systems to major weapon systems
and tactical communications systems that could emerge in the next five
years.
(2)
A description and
assessment of cyber vulnerabilities of current major weapons and tactical
communications systems.
(3)
A detailed
description of the current strategy to detect, deter, and defend against cyber
attacks on current and planned major weapon systems and tactical communications
systems.
(4)
An estimate of
the costs anticipated to be incurred in addressing cyber vulnerabilities to
Department of Defense weapons systems and tactical communications systems over
the next five years
(c)
Form
The
report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
945.
Strategy on
use of the reserve components of the Armed Forces to support Department of
Defense cyber missions
(a)
Strategy
required
In developing the force structure to accomplish the
cyber missions of the Department of Defense through United States Cyber
Command, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a strategy for integrating the
reserve components of the Armed Forces into the total force to support the
cyber missions of the United States Cyber Command, including support for civil
authorities, in the discharge of such missions.
(b)
Actions
required during development
In developing the strategy, the
Secretary shall do the following:
(1)
In consultation
with the Secretaries of the military departments and the Commander of the
United States Cyber Command, identify the Department of Defense cyber mission
requirements that could be discharged by members of the reserve
components.
(2)
In consultation
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, ensure that the Governors of the
several States, through the Council of Governors, as appropriate, have an
opportunity to provide the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland
Security an independent evaluation of State cyber capabilities, and State cyber
needs that cannot be fulfilled through the private sector.
(3)
Identify the
existing capabilities and plans for cyber activities of the reserve components,
including by the following:
(A)
An identification
of current positions in the reserve components serving Department cyber
missions.
(B)
An inventory of
the existing cyber skills of reserve component personnel.
(C)
An assessment of
the manner in which the military departments plan to use the reserve components
to meet total force resource requirements, and the effect of such plans on the
potential ability of members of the reserve components to support the cyber
missions of the United States Cyber Command.
(4)
Assess whether
the National Guard, when activated in a State status (either State Active Duty
or in a duty status under title 32, United States Code) can operate under
unique and useful authorities to support domestic cyber missions and
requirements of the Department or the United States Cyber Command.
(5)
Assess the
appropriateness of hiring on a part-time basis non-dual status technicians who
possess appropriate cyber security expertise for purposes of assisting the
National Guard in protecting critical infrastructure and carrying out cyber
security missions in defense of the United States homeland.
(6)
Assess the
current and potential ability of the reserve components to—
(A)
attract and
retain personnel with substantial, relevant cyber technical expertise who use
those skills in the private sector;
(B)
organize such
personnel into units at the State, regional, or national level under
appropriate command and control arrangements for Department cyber
missions;
(C)
meet and sustain
the training standards of the United States Cyber Command; and
(D)
establish and
manage career paths for such personnel.
(7)
Determine how the
reserve components could contribute to total force solutions to cyber
operations requirements of the United States Cyber Command.
(8)
Develop an
estimate of the personnel, infrastructure, and training required, and the costs
that would be incurred, in connection with implementing the strategy for
integrating the reserve components into the total force for support of the
cyber missions of the Department and United States Cyber Command.
(c)
Report
Not
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the
strategy developed under this section. The report shall include a comprehensive
description of the strategy, including the results of the actions required by
subsection (b), and such other matters on the strategy as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
946.
Control of the
proliferation of cyber weapons
(a)
Interagency
process for establishment of policy
The President shall establish
an interagency process to provide for the establishment of an integrated policy
to control the proliferation of cyber weapons through unilateral and
cooperative export controls, law enforcement activities, financial means,
diplomatic engagement, and such other means as the President considers
appropriate.
(b)
Objectives
The
objectives of the interagency process established under subsection (a) shall be
as follows:
(1)
To identify the
types of dangerous software that can and should be controlled through export
controls, whether unilaterally or cooperatively with other countries.
(2)
To identify the
intelligence, law enforcement, and financial sanctions tools that can and
should be used to suppress the trade in cyber tools and infrastructure that are
or can be used for criminal, terrorist, or military activities while preserving
the ability of governments and the private sector to use such tools for
legitimate purposes of self-defense.
(3)
To establish a
statement of principles to control the proliferation of cyber weapons,
including principles for controlling the proliferation of cyber weapons that
can lead to expanded cooperation and engagement with international
partners.
(c)
Recommendations
The
interagency process established under subsection (a) shall develop, by not
later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
recommendations on means for the control of the proliferation of cyber weapons,
including a draft statement of principles and a review of applicable legal
authorities.
947.
Integrated policy to
deter adversaries in cyberspace
(a)
Integrated
policy
The President shall establish an interagency process to
provide for the development of an integrated policy to deter adversaries in
cyberspace.
(b)
Objective
The
objective of the interagency process established under subsection (a) shall be
to develop a deterrence policy for reducing cyber risks to the United States
and our allies.
(c)
Report
(1)
In
general
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the President shall submit to the congressional defense committees
a report setting forth the integrated policy developed pursuant to subsection
(a).
(2)
Form
The
report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may
include a classified annex.
948.
Centers of
Academic Excellence for Information Assurance matters
(a)
Contingent
preservation of certification during fiscal year 2014
The Centers
of Academic Excellence for Information Assurance shall not lose their
certification as centers of academic excellence in fiscal year 2014 for failure
to meet revised guidelines and criteria for such certification issued by the
National Security Agency if the Centers qualify for certification as centers of
academic excellence under guidelines and standards for such certification as of
September 30, 2013.
(b)
Assessment of
proper body for accreditation or certification
Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall, in
consultation with the Secretary of Education and with the advice of the
National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, determine
whether either—
(1)
information
assurance has become a mature academic discipline that warrants the creation of
a non-government national accreditation body for the development of curricula
and other criteria for accrediting the information assurance programs of
institutions of higher education; or
(2)
a direct
Government role is still required for the development of curricula and other
criteria for certifying the information assurance programs of the existing
Centers of Academic Excellence for Information Assurance.
(c)
Plan
(1)
In
general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a plan on the
following:
(A)
Implementing the
determination made pursuant to subsection (b) on appropriate mechanisms for
developing the curricula and other criteria for accrediting or certifying the
the information assurance programs of the Centers of Academic Excellence for
Information Assurance.
(B)
Transitioning the
responsibility specified in subparagraph (A) from the sole administration of
the National Security Agency.
(2)
Consultation
In
developing the plan, the President shall consult with appropriate
representatives of information assurance interests in all departments and
agencies of the Federal Government, State and local governments, academia, and
the private sector.
(3)
Conforming of
process to processes for other academic disciplines
In developing
the plan, the President shall seek to conform the accreditation or
certification process for the Centers of Academic Excellence for Information
Assurance to the peer-based accreditation practices used for all other
established academic disciplines, including a process involving all appropriate
constituency communities, and covering standards for curriculum, quality of
instruction, contribution to the discipline, and supporting facilities.
X
General
Provisions
A
Financial
Matters
1001.
General
transfer authority
(a)
Authority To
transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon
determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the
national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made
available to the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2014
between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions
thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be
available for the same purposes as the authorization to which
transferred.
(2)
Limitation
Except
as provided in paragraph (3), the total amount of authorizations that the
Secretary may transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed
$4,000,000,000.
(3)
Exception for
transfers between military personnel authorizations
A transfer of
funds between military personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be
counted toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
(b)
Limitations
The
authority provided by subsection (a) to transfer authorizations—
(1)
may only be used
to provide authority for items that have a higher priority than the items from
which authority is transferred; and
(2)
may not be used
to provide authority for an item that has been denied authorization by
Congress.
(c)
Effect on
authorization amounts
A transfer made from one account to another
under the authority of this section shall be deemed to increase the amount
authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount
equal to the amount transferred.
(d)
Notice to
Congress
The Secretary shall promptly notify Congress of each
transfer made under subsection (a).
1002.
Department of
Defense Readiness Restoration Fund
(a)
Establishment
The
Secretary of Defense shall establish a fund to be known as the
Department of Defense Readiness Restoration Fund
(in this
section referred to as the
Fund
) in order to provide funds, in
addition to other funds that may be available, for training activities of the
Armed Forces (including flying hours and steaming days) and the maintenance of
military equipment.
(b)
Purpose
The
purpose of the Fund is to provide the Department of Defense with increased
flexibility to transfer funds to high priority readiness accounts, where
necessary to address significant shortfalls in funding otherwise available for
the training activities of the Armed Forces (including flying hours and
steaming days) and the maintenance of military equipment.
(c)
Management
(1)
In
general
The Fund shall be managed by a senior official of the
Department of Defense designated by the Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) for that purpose.
(2)
Consultation
The
senior official designated under paragraph (1) shall manage the Fund in
consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel
Readiness and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness.
(d)
Elements
(1)
In
general
The Fund shall consist of the following:
(A)
Amounts
transferred to the Fund in accordance with paragraph (2).
(B)
Any other amounts
appropriated to, credited to, or deposited into the Fund by law.
(2)
Transfers
The
Secretary of Defense may transfer to the Fund, in accordance with established
procedures governing such transfers, any unobligated funds available to the
Department of Defense. Any amount so transferred shall be credited to the
Fund.
(e)
Availability of
funds
(1)
In
general
Subject to the provisions of this subsection, amounts in
the Fund shall be available to the Secretary of Defense for transfer to the
operation and maintenance accounts of a military department or Defense Agency
for expenditure for training activities of the Armed Forces (including flying
hours and steaming days) and the maintenance of military equipment.
(2)
Limitation
Amounts
in the Fund may not be obligated for any purpose other than purposes described
in paragraph (1).
(3)
Priority in
readiness needs
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics
and Materiel Readiness and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness
shall establish a process for identifying, evaluating, and prioritizing the key
readiness needs of the Department and for ensuring that amounts in the Fund are
made available for the highest priority readiness needs so identified.
(4)
Period of
availability
The period of availability for obligation of amounts
in the Fund shall not be affected by a transfer of such amounts under this
section.
(5)
Effect on
authorization amounts
A transfer made from one account to another
under the authority of this section shall be deemed to change the amount
authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount
equal to the amount transferred.
(f)
Construction of
transfer authority
(1)
Transfers to
Fund
The transfer of amounts to the Fund pursuant to subsection
(d)(2) shall not be counted toward the dollar limitation on transfer authority
in section 1001, any similar provision in an annual Act authorizing
appropriations for a fiscal year for the Department of Defense, or any other
provision of law imposing a ceiling on amounts that may be transferred by the
Department.
(2)
Transfers from
Fund
The transfer of amounts from the Fund to a military
department or Defense Agency pursuant to subsection (e)(1) shall not be counted
toward the dollar limitation on transfer authority in section 1001, any similar
provision in an annual Act authorizing appropriations for a fiscal year for the
Department of Defense, or any other provision of law imposing a ceiling on
amounts that may be transferred by the Department.
(g)
Sunset
(1)
Transfers of
unobligated funds
The authority to transfer unobligated funds to
the Fund under subsection (d)(2) shall cease on September 30, 2014.
(2)
Transfers from
Fund
The authority to transfer amounts from the Fund under
subsection (e) shall expire on April 1, 2015.
(3)
Exceptions from
transfer limitations
The exception from the provisions of law
referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (f) of transfers of amounts
referred to in such paragraphs shall cease on September 30, 2014.
(h)
Notice to
Congress
The Secretary of Defense shall promptly notify the
congressional defense committees of each transfer under subsection (d)(2) or
(e)(1).
(i)
Annual
report
Not later than 60 days after the end of any fiscal year in
which amounts are available in the Fund, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a report on the operation of the Fund
during such fiscal year. Each report shall include, for the fiscal year covered
by such report, the following:
(1)
A statement of
the amounts transferred, appropriated, credited, or deposited to or into the
Fund, and the source of such amounts.
(2)
A description of
the expenditures made from the Fund (including expenditures following a
transfer of amounts in the Fund to a military department or Defense Agency),
including the purpose of such expenditures.
(3)
A description and
assessment of the improvements to the readiness of the Department of Defense
resulting from such expenditures.
(4)
A statement of
the balance in the Fund at the beginning and end of such fiscal year.
B
Counter-Drug
Activities
1011.
Extension of
authority to support unified counter-drug and counterterrorism campaign in
Colombia
(a)
Extension
Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (
Public Law 108–375
;
118 Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1010 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat.
1907), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a), by striking
2013
and inserting
2015
;
and
(2)
in subsection
(c), by striking
2013
and inserting
2015
.
(b)
Notice to
Congress on assistance
Not later than 15 days before providing
assistance under section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (as amended by subsection (a)) using
funds available for fiscal year 2014, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a notice setting forth the assistance to
be provided, including the types of such assistance, the budget for such
assistance, and the completion date for the provision of such
assistance.
1012.
Extension of
authority for joint task forces to provide support to law enforcement agencies
conducting counter-terrorism activities
Section 1022(b) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (
10 U.S.C. 371
note) is amended by
striking
2013
and inserting
2015
.
1013.
Extension and
expansion of authority to provide additional support for counter-drug
activities of certain foreign governments
(a)
Extension
Subsection
(a)(2) of section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 1998 (
Public Law 105–85
; 111 Stat. 1881), as most recently amended by
section 1006 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
(
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1557), is further amended by striking
2013
and inserting
2018
.
(b)
Maximum amount
of support
Subsection (e)(2) of such section 1033, as so amended,
is further amended by striking
2013
and inserting
2018
.
(c)
Additional
governments eligible To receive support
Subsection (b) of such
section 1033, as so amended, is further amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraphs:
(36)
Government of
Chad.
(37)
Government of
Libya.
(38)
Government of
Mali.
(39)
Government of
Niger.
.
C
Naval Vessels and
Shipyards
1021.
Modification of
requirements for annual long-range plan for the construction of naval
vessels
(a)
Annual naval
vessel construction plan
Subsection (b) of
section 231
of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
by striking
should be designed
both places it appears and inserting
shall be designed
; and
(B)
by striking
is capable of supporting
both places it appears and inserting
supports
; and
(2)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph
(B), by inserting
and capabilities
after
naval vessel
force structure
; and
(B)
by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
The estimated
total cost of construction for each vessel used to determine estimated levels
of annual funding under subparagraph
(C).
.
(b)
Assessment when
construction plan does not meet force structure requirements
Such
section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
and
(2)
by inserting
after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Assessment when
annual naval vessel construction plan does not meet force structure
requirements
If the annual naval vessel construction plan for a
fiscal year under subsection (b) does not result in a force structure or
capabilities that meet the requirements identified in subsection (b)(2)(B), the
Secretary shall include with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year
an assessment of the extent of the strategic and operational risk to national
security associated with the reduced force structure of naval vessels over the
period of time that the required force structure or capabilities are not
achieved. Such assessment shall include an analysis whether the risks are
acceptable, and plans to mitigate such risks. Such assessment shall be
coordinated in advance with the commanders of the combatant commands and the
Nuclear Weapons Council under section 179 of this
title.
.
1022.
Report on naval
vessels and the Force Structure Assessment
(a)
Report
required
Not later than February 1, 2014, the Chief of Naval
Operations shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on
current and anticipated requirements for combatant vessels of the Navy over the
next 30 years.
(b)
Elements
The
report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description of
the naval capability requirements identified by the combatant commands in
developing the Force Structure Assessment (FSA) in 2005 and revalidating that
Assessment in 2010.
(2)
The capabilities
for each class of vessel that was assumed in the Force Structure
Assessment.
(3)
An assessment of
the capabilities of the current fleet of combatant vessels of the Navy to meet
current and anticipated requirements.
(4)
An assessment the
capabilities of the anticipated fleet of combatant vessels of the Navy to meet
emerging threats over the next 30 years.
(5)
An assessment of
how the Navy will meet combatant command requirements for forward-deployed
naval capabilities with a smaller number of ships and submarines.
(6)
An assessment of
how the Navy will manage the risk of massing a greater set of capabilities on a
smaller number of ships while facing an expanding range of asymmetrical
threats, such as—
(A)
anti-access/area-denial
capabilities;
(B)
diesel-electric
submarines;
(C)
mines; and
(D)
anti-ship cruise
and ballistic missiles.
(c)
Form
The
report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
1023.
Repeal of
policy relating to propulsion systems of any new class of major combatant
vessels of the strike forces of the United States Navy
Section 1012 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
10 U.S.C. 7291
note) is
repealed.
1024.
Clarification
of sole ownership resulting from ship donations at no cost to the Navy
(a)
Clarification
of transfer authority
Subsection (a) of
section 7306
of title 10,
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(a)
Authority To
make transfer
The Secretary of the Navy may convey, by donation,
all right, title, and interest to any vessel stricken from the Naval Vessel
Register or any captured vessel, for use as a museum or memorial for public
display in the United States, to—
(1)
any State, the
District of Columbia, any Commonwealth or possession of the United States, or
any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof; or
(2)
any nonprofit
entity.
.
(b)
Clarification
of limitations on liability and responsibility
Subsection (b) of
such section is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Limitations on
liability and responsibility
(1)
Immunity of
United States
The United States and all departments and agencies
thereof, and their officers and employees, shall not be liable at law or in
equity for any injury or damage to any person or property occurring on a vessel
donated under this section.
(2)
Improvements,
upgrades, and repairs
Notwithstanding any other law, the United
States and all departments and agencies thereof, and their officers and
employees, shall have no responsibility or obligation to make, engage in, or
provide funding for, any improvement, upgrade, modification, maintenance,
preservation, or repair to a vessel donated under this
section.
.
(c)
Clarification
that transfers to be made at no cost to united states
Subsection
(c) of such section is amended by inserting after
under this
section
the following:
, the maintenance and preservation of
that vessel as a museum or memorial, and the ultimate disposal of that vessel,
including demilitarization of Munitions List items at the end of the useful
life of the vessel as a museum or memorial,
.
(d)
Application of
environmental laws; definitions
Such section is further amended
by adding at the end the following new subsections:
(e)
Application of
environmental laws
Nothing in this section shall affect the
applicability of Federal, State, interstate, and local environmental laws and
regulations, including the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et
seq.) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.
), to the Department of Defense or to a
donee.
(f)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
nonprofit entity
means any entity qualifying as an exempt
organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
(2)
The term
Munitions List
means the United States Munitions List created and
controlled under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.
2778).
(3)
The term
donee
means any entity receiving a vessel pursuant to subsection
(a).
.
(e)
Clerical
amendments
(1)
Section
heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as
follows:
7306.
Vessels
stricken from Naval Vessel Register; captured vessels: conveyance by
donation
.
(2)
Table of
sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 633 of
such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 7306 and
inserting the following new item:
7306. Vessels stricken from
Naval Vessel Register; captured vessels: conveyance by
donation.
.
D
Counterterrorism
1031.
Transfers to
foreign countries of individuals detained at United States Naval Station,
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
(a)
Authority To
transfer under certain circumstances
The Secretary of Defense is
authorized to transfer or release any individual detained at Guantanamo to the
individual’s country of origin, or any other foreign country, if—
(1)
the Secretary
determines, following a review conducted in accordance with the requirements of
section 1023 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10
U.S.C. 801 note) and Executive Order No. 13567, that the individual is no
longer a threat to the national security of the United States;
(2)
such transfer or
release outside the United States is to effectuate an order affecting
disposition of the individual by a court or competent tribunal of the United
States having jurisdiction; or
(3)
such individual
has been tried in a court or competent tribunal of the United States having
jurisdiction on charges based on the same conduct that serves as the basis for
the determination that the individual is an enemy combatant and—
(A)
has been
acquitted of such charges; or
(B)
has been
convicted and has completed serving the sentence pursuant to the
conviction.
(b)
Determination
required prior to transfer
Except as provided in subsection (a),
the Secretary of Defense may transfer an individual detained at Guantanamo to
the custody or control of the individual’s country origin, or any other foreign
country, only if the Secretary determines that—
(1)
actions that have
been or are planned to be taken will substantially mitigate the risk of such
individual engaging or reengaging in any terrorist or other hostile activity
that threatens the United States or United States persons or interests;
and
(2)
the transfer is
in the national security interest of the United States.
(c)
Factors To Be
considered in making determination
In making the determination
specified in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall take into
consideration the following factors:
(1)
The
recommendations of the Guantanamo Detainee Review Task Force established
pursuant to Executive Order No. 13492 and the recommendations of the Periodic
Review Boards established pursuant to No. Executive Order 13567, as
applicable.
(2)
Any confirmed
case in which an individual transferred to the foreign country to which the
individual is to be transferred subsequently engaged in terrorist or other
other hostile activity that threatened the United States or United States
persons or interests.
(3)
Any actions taken
by the United States or the foreign country to which the individual is to be
transferred, or change in circumstances in such country, that reduce the risk
of recidivism of the type described in paragraph (2).
(4)
Any assurances
provided by the government of the foreign country to which the individual is to
be transferred, including that—
(A)
such government
maintains control over any facility at which the individual is to be detained
if the individual is to be housed in a government-controlled facility;
and
(B)
such government
has taken or agreed to take actions to substantially mitigate the risk of the
individual engaging or reengaging in any terrorist or other hostile activity
that threatens the United States or United States persons or interests.
(5)
An assessment of
the capacity, willingness, and past practices (if applicable) of the foreign
country described in paragraph (4) in meeting any assurances it has provided,
including assurances under paragraph (4) regarding its capacity and willingness
to mitigate the risk of recidivism.
(6)
Any record of
cooperation by the individual to be transferred with United States intelligence
and law enforcement authorities, pursuant to a pre-trial agreement, while in
the custody of or under the effective control of the Department of Defense, and
any agreements and effective mechanisms that may be in place, to the extent
relevant and necessary, to provide continued cooperation with United States
intelligence and law enforcement authorities.
(d)
Notification
The
Secretary of Defense shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress of a
determination of the Secretary under subsection (a) or (b) not later than 30
days before the transfer or release of the individual under such subsection.
Each notification shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
A detailed
statement of the basis for the transfer or release.
(2)
An explanation of
why the transfer or release is in the national security interests of the United
States.
(3)
A description of
any actions to be taken to mitigate the risks of recidivism by the individual
to be transferred or released.
(e)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The term
individual detained at Guantanamo
means any individual located at
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of October 1, 2009,
who—
(A)
is not a citizen
of the United States or a member of the Armed Forces of the United States;
and
(B)
is—
(i)
in
the custody or under the control of the Department of Defense; or
(ii)
otherwise under
detention at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
(f)
Repeal of
superseded authorities
The following provisions of law are
repealed:
(1)
Section 1033 of
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public
Law 111–383; 124 Stat. 4351).
(2)
Section 1028 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
;
125 Stat. 1567;
10 U.S.C. 801
note).
(3)
Section 1028 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 1914;
10 U.S.C. 801
note).
1032.
Authority to
temporarily transfer individuals detained at United States Naval Station,
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States for emergency or critical medical
treatment
(a)
Transfer for
emergency or critical medical treatment
authorized
Notwithstanding section 1031(a), or any similar
provision of law enacted after September 30, 2013, the Secretary of Defense may
temporarily transfer any individual detained at Guantanamo to a Department of
Defense medical facility in the United States for the sole purpose of providing
the individual medical treatment if the Secretary determines that—
(1)
the Senior
Medical Officer, Joint Task Force–Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, has determined that the
medical treatment is necessary to prevent death or imminent significant injury
or harm to the health of the individual;
(2)
based on the
recommendation of the Senior Medical Officer, Joint Task Force–Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, the medical treatment is not available to be provided at United States
Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, without incurring excessive and
unreasonable costs; and
(3)
the Department of
Defense has provided for appropriate security measures for the custody and
control of the individual during any period in which the individual is
temporarily in the United States under this subsection.
(b)
Limitation on
exercise of authority
The authority of the Secretary of Defense
under subsection (a) may be exercised only by the Secretary of Defense or by
another official of the Department of Defense at the level of Under Secretary
of Defense or higher.
(c)
Conditions of
transfer
An individual who is temporarily transferred under the
authority in subsection (a) shall—
(1)
remain in the
custody and control of the Secretary of Defense at all times; and
(2)
be returned to
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as soon as feasible after a
Department of Defense physician determines that—
(A)
the individual is
medically cleared to travel; and
(B)
in consultation
with the Commander, Joint Task Force–Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, any necessary
follow-up medical care may reasonably be provided the individual at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
(d)
Status while in
United States
An individual who is temporarily transferred under
the authority in subsection (a), while in the United States—
(1)
shall be
considered to be paroled into the United States temporarily pursuant to section
212(d)(5)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(d)(5)(A));
(2)
shall not be
permitted to apply for asylum under section 208 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1158
), be placed in removal proceedings under section
240 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1229a
), or be eligible to apply for admission into
the United States; and
(3)
shall not be
permitted to avail himself of any right, privilege, or benefit of any law of
the United States beyond those available to individuals detained at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
(e)
Judicial review
precluded
A decision not to grant a temporary transfer under
subsection (a), or not to recommend the granting of such a transfer, shall not
give rise to a judicial cause of action.
(f)
Notification
The
Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of any temporary transfer of an
individual under the authority in subsection (a) not later than 5 days after
the transfer of the individual under that authority.
(g)
Individual
detained at Guantanamo defined
In this section, the term
individual detained at Guantanamo
has the meaning given that term
in section 1031(e)(2).
1033.
Limitation on
the transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station,
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
(a)
In
general
Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds
authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2014 may be used to
transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the United
States, its territories, or possessions of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other
detainee who—
(1)
is not a United
States citizen or a member of the Armed Forces of the United States; and
(2)
is or was held on
or after January 20, 2009, at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, by the Department of Defense.
(b)
Transfer for
detention and trial
The Secretary of Defense may transfer a
detainee described in subsection (a) to the United States for detention and
trial if the Secretary—
(1)
determines that
the transfer is in the national security interest of the United States;
(2)
determines that
appropriate actions have been taken, or will be taken, to address any risk to
public safety that could arise in connection with the detention and trial in
the United States; and
(3)
notifies the
appropriate committees of Congress not later than 30 days before the date of
the proposed transfer.
(c)
Notification
elements
A notification on a transfer under subsection (b)(3)
shall include the following:
(1)
A statement of
the basis for the determination that the transfer is in the national security
interest of the United States.
(2)
A description of
the actions the Secretary determines have been taken, or will be taken, to
address any risk to public safety that could arise in connection with the
detention and trial in the United States.
(d)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
1034.
Clarification
of procedures for use of alternate members on military commissions
(a)
Primary and
alternate members
(1)
Number of
members
Subsection (a) of
section 948m
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(A)
in paragraph
(1)—
(i)
by
striking
at least five members
and inserting
at least
five primary members and as many alternate members as the convening authority
shall detail
; and
(ii)
by
adding at the end the following new sentence:
Alternate members shall be
designated in the order in which they will replace an excused primary
member.
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2),
by inserting
primary
after
the number of
.
(2)
General
rules
Such section is further amended—
(A)
by redesignating
subsection (b) and (c) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting
after subsection (a) the following new subsections (b) and (c):
(b)
Primary
members
Primary members of a military commission under this
chapter are voting members.
(c)
Alternate
members
(1)
A
military commission may include alternate members to replace primary members
who are excused from service on the commission.
(2)
Whenever a primary member is excused
from service on the commission, an alternate member, if available, shall
replace the excused primary member and the trial may
proceed.
.
(3)
Excuse of
members
Subsection (d) of such section, as redesignated by
paragraph (2)(A), is amended—
(A)
in the matter
before paragraph (1), by inserting
primary or alternate
before
member
;
(B)
in paragraph (2),
by striking
or
at the end;
(C)
in paragraph (3),
by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(D)
by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
(4)
in the case of an
alternate member, in order to reduce the number of alternate members required
for service on the commission, as determined by the convening
authority.
.
(4)
Absent and
additional members
Subsection (e) of such section, as
redesignated by paragraph (2)(A), is amended—
(A)
in the first
sentence—
(i)
by
inserting
the number of primary members of
after
Whenever
;
(ii)
by
inserting
primary
before
members required by
;
and
(iii)
by inserting
and there are no remaining alternate members to replace the excused
primary members
after
subsection (a)
; and
(B)
by adding at the
end the following new sentence:
An alternate member who was present for
the introduction of all evidence shall not be considered to be a new or
additional member.
.
(b)
Challenges
Section
949f of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a), by inserting
primary or alternate
before
members
; and
(2)
in subsection
(b), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
Nothing in this
section prohibits the military judge from awarding to each party such
additional peremptory challenges as may be required in the interests of
justice.
.
(c)
Number of votes
required
Section 949m of such title is amended—
(1)
by inserting
primary
before
members
each place it appears;
and
(2)
in subsection
(b), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The primary members present for a
vote on a sentence need not be the same primary members who voted on the
conviction if the requirements of section 948m(d) of this title are
met.
.
E
Nuclear
Forces
1041.
Modification of responsibilities and
reporting requirements of Nuclear Weapons Council
(a)
Responsibilities
Subsection
(d) of
section 179
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
paragraph (10); and
(2)
by redesignating
paragraphs (11) and (12) as paragraphs (10) and (11), respectively.
(b)
Annual
report
Subsection (g) of such section is amended by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
(6)
A description of
the joint efforts of the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy
with respect to the physical protection of special nuclear material and the
development of common physical protection standards for such
material.
.
1042.
Modification
of deadline for report on plan for nuclear weapons stockpile and nuclear
weapons complex
Section
1043(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public
Law 112–81; 125 Stat. 1576) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
on the
plan
and all that follows through
control
system
and inserting
required
;
(2)
in paragraph
(1)—
(A)
by striking
Together with the budget of the President submitted to Congress under
section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2013
through 2019, the President
and inserting
The President
;
and
(B)
by striking
control system.
and inserting the following: “control
system—
(A)
together with the
budget of the President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title
31, United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2013 and 2014; and
(B)
except as
provided in paragraph (2), not later than 60 days after the submission of the
budget of the President to Congress under that section for each of fiscal years
2015 through
2019.
;
(3)
by redesignating
paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
(4)
by inserting
after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Extension of
deadline for report
If the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Energy jointly determine that a report required by paragraph (1) for any of
fiscal years 2015 through 2019 will not able to be transmitted to the
committees specified in that paragraph by the time required under subparagraph
(B) of that paragraph, such Secretaries shall—
(A)
promptly, and
before the submission to Congress of the budget of the President for that
fiscal year under
section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, notify those
committees of the expected date for the transmission of the report; and
(B)
not later than 30
days after the submission of that budget to Congress, provide a briefing to
those committees on the content of the
report.
.
1043.
Cost
estimates and comparisons relating to interoperable warhead
(a)
Cost estimate
of certain life extension activities
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, shall estimate the costs of life
extension activities for the following:
(A)
Deployed and
hedge W88 Trident II D5 missile warheads.
(B)
Deployed and
hedge W78 intercontinental ballistic missile warheads.
(C)
Deployed and
hedge W87 intercontinental ballistic missile warheads.
(2)
Submission
The
Secretary shall submit the cost estimate required by paragraph (1) to the
congressional defense committees not later than February 1, 2014.
(b)
Cost comparison
relating to interoperable warhead
(1)
In
general
The Secretary, acting through the Director, shall compare
the costs of life extension activities for the warheads referred to in
subsection (a)(1), using the cost estimate required by that subsection, to the
costs of replacing the W88 Trident II D5 missile warheads and the W78
intercontinental ballistic missile warheads with an interoperable warhead,
using the cost estimate for phase 6.2A (relating to design definition and cost
study) for the interoperable warhead.
(2)
Submission
The
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the
cost comparison required by paragraph (1) not later than April 1, 2014.
(c)
Limitation on
use of funds
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be obligated or expended for an
interoperable warhead to replace the W88 Trident II D5 missile warheads and the
W78 intercontinental ballistic missile warheads after the completion of phase
6.2A for the interoperable warhead until the Secretary submits to the
congressional defense committees the report on the cost comparison required by
subsection (b).
1044.
Sense of Congress
on ensuring the modernization of United States nuclear forces
(a)
Policy
It
is the policy of the United States to modernize or replace the triad of
strategic nuclear delivery systems, to proceed with a robust stockpile
stewardship program, and to maintain and modernize the nuclear weapons
production capabilities that will ensure the safety, security, reliability, and
performance of the United States nuclear arsenal at the New START Treaty levels
and meet requirements for hedging against possible international developments
or technical problems, in conformance with United States policies and to
underpin deterrence.
(b)
Sense of
Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
Congress is
committed to providing the resources needed to achieve the objectives stated in
subsection (a) at a minimum at the level set forth in the 10-year plan provided
to Congress on an annual basis pursuant to section 1043 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
), as amended;
(2)
Congress supports
the modernization or replacement of the triad of strategic nuclear delivery
systems: a heavy bomber and air-launched cruise missile, an ICBM, and an SSBN
and SLBM; and
(3)
the President and
Congress should work together to meet the objectives stated in subsection (a)
in the most cost-efficient manner possible.
1045.
Readiness and
flexibility of intercontinental ballistic missile force
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of Defense may, in a manner consistent with
the obligations of the United States under international agreements—
(1)
retain
intercontinental ballistic missile launch facilities currently supporting
deployed strategic nuclear delivery vehicles within the limit of 800 deployed
and non-deployed strategic launchers;
(2)
maintain
intercontinental ballistic missiles on alert or operationally deployed status;
and
(3)
preserve
intercontinental ballistic missile silos in operational or warm status.
(b)
Report
required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the feasibility and advisability of preserving intercontinental
ballistic missile silos in operational or warm status.
F
Miscellaneous
Authorities and Limitations
1051.
National
security spectrum strategy
(a)
National
security spectrum strategy
(1)
In
general
Chapter 2
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
119a.
National
security spectrum strategy
(a)
Strategy
required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Commerce, develop and
update from time to time a strategy on the availability and use of the
electromagnetic spectrum to meet the national security requirements of the
United States.
(b)
Periods covered
by strategy
The strategy shall cover each of the following
periods (counting from the date of the issuance of the strategy or any update
of the strategy):
(1)
Zero to five
years.
(2)
Five to ten
years.
(3)
Ten to thirty
years.
(c)
Elements
The
strategy shall include the following (current as of the date of the issuance of
the strategy or any update of the strategy):
(1)
An inventory of
the uses of the electromagnetic spectrum for national security purposes and
other purposes.
(2)
An estimate of
the need for electromagnetic spectrum for national security and other purposes
over each of the periods specified in subsection (b).
(3)
An estimate of
the capacity to share electromagnetic spectrum over each of the period
specified in subsection (b) among national security purposes and other purposes
in accordance with the estimate developed under paragraph (2).
(4)
Plans to continue
to use blocks of electromagnetic spectrum, or to relocate to or commence use of
blocks of electromagnetic spectrum, over each of the periods specified in
subsection (b).
(5)
An estimate of
the costs of any plans to relocate to or commence use of blocks of
electromagnetic spectrum, over each of the periods specified in subsection
(b).
(6)
Any other matters
that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National
Intelligence and the Secretary of Commerce, considers appropriate for the
strategy.
(d)
Frequency of
updates
The strategy shall be updated not less often than once
every five years.
(e)
Form
The
strategy, and any update of the strategy, shall be issued in unclassified form,
but may include a classified
annex.
.
(2)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 2 of
such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
119a. National security spectrum
strategy.
.
(b)
Deadline for
development of strategy
The national security spectrum strategy
required by
section 119a
of title 10, United States Code (as added by
subsection (a)), shall be developed not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
1052.
Department of
Defense representation in dispute resolution regarding surrender of Department
of Defense bands of electromagnetic frequencies
Section 1062(b) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 768; 47
U.S.C. 921 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
(3)
Dispute
resolution
In the event of any dispute resolution process
involving the surrender of use of such band of frequencies, the Secretary shall
ensure the Department of Defense has adequate representation to convey its
views.
.
1053.
Sense of Senate on
parental rights of members of the Armed Forces in child custody
determinations
It is the sense
of the Senate that State courts should not consider a military deployment,
including past, present, or future deployment, as the sole factor in
determining child custody in a State court proceeding involving a parent who is
a member of the Armed Forces. The best interest of the child should always
prevail in custody cases, but members of the Armed Forces should not lose
custody of their children based solely upon service to our country.
G
Studies and
Reports
1061.
Repeal and
modification of reporting requirements
(a)
Title 10,
United States Code
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as
follows:
(1)
Section 113 is
amended by striking subsection (m).
(2)
Section 117 is
amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (e); and
(B)
by redesignating
subsection (f) as subsection (e).
(3)
Section 127 is
amended by striking subsection (d).
(4)
Section 153 is
amended by striking subsection (c).
(5)
(A)
Section 483 is
repealed.
(B)
The table of sections at the beginning
of chapter 23 is amended by striking the item relating to section 483.
(6)
Section 1781b is
amended by striking subsection (d).
(7)
Section 2216 is
amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (i); and
(B)
by redesignating
subsections (j) and (k) as subsections (i) and (j), respectively.
(8)
Section 2244a(c)
is amended by striking the last sentence.
(9)
Section 2410i(c)
is amended by striking the last sentence.
(10)
Section 2835 is
amended—
(A)
in subsection
(a), by striking
Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary
and
inserting
The Secretary
;
(B)
by striking
subsection (b); and
(C)
by redesignating
subsections (c) through (f) as subsections (b) through (e),
respectively.
(11)
Section 2861 is
amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (c); and
(B)
by redesignating
subsection (d) as subsection (c).
(12)
(A)
Section 2884 is
amended—
(i)
by striking subsection (b);
(ii)
in subsection (a)—
(I)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as
subsection (b);
(II)
in paragraph (1)—
(aa)
by striking
Project reports
.—(1)
and inserting
Reports
.—
;
(bb)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively;
(iii)
in subsection (b), as
redesignated by clause (ii)(I), by striking
For each
and
inserting
Content of
reports
.—(1) For each
;
(iv)
by redesignating paragraphs (3)
and (4) of subsection (a) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively, of
subsection (b), as redesignated by clause (ii)(I); and
(v)
in paragraph (2), as redesignated
by clause (iv), of subsection (b), as redesignated by clause (ii)(I), by
striking
contract described in paragraph (1)
and inserting
contract described in subsection (a)
.
(B)
(i)
The heading of such
section is amended to read as follows:
2884.
Project
reports
.
(ii)
The item relating to such section in
the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IV of chapter 169 is
amended to read as follows:
2884. Project
reports.
.
(13)
Section
2885(a)(3) is amended by striking
If a project
and inserting
In the case of a project for new construction, if the
project
.
(14)
Section 2916 is
amended by striking subsection (c).
(b)
Annual National
Defense Authorization Acts
(1)
Fiscal year
2009
Section 903(b)(5) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 10 U.S.C. 2228
note) is amended to read as follows:
(5)
Not later than December 31 of each
year, the corrosion control and prevention executive of a military department
shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report containing recommendations
pertaining to the corrosion control and prevention program of the military
department. Such report shall include recommendations for the funding levels
necessary for the executive to carry out the duties of the executive under this
section.
.
(2)
Fiscal year
2008
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008
(
Public Law 110–181
) is amended as follows:
(A)
Section
1074(b)(6) (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended—
(i)
in
subparagraph (A), by striking
The Secretary
and inserting
Except as provided in subparagraph (D), the Secretary
;
and
(ii)
by
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
Exceptions
Subparagraph
(A) does not apply to determinations made with respect to the following
individuals:
(i)
An individual
described in paragraph (2)(C) who is otherwise sponsored by the Secretary of
Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, or the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(ii)
An individual
described in paragraph
(2)(E).
.
(B)
Section 2864 (10
U.S.C. 2911 note) is repealed.
(3)
Fiscal year
2007
The John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
) is amended as follows:
(A)
Section 226 (120
Stat. 2131) is repealed.
(B)
Section 323 (10
U.S.C. 229 note) is amended—
(i)
by
striking subsection (c); and
(ii)
by
redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (c), (d), and (e),
respectively.
(4)
Fiscal year
1999
Section 1101 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (
Public Law 105–261
;
5 U.S.C. 3104
note)
is amended by striking subsection (g).
(c)
Security
report
Section 3151 of the Department of Energy Facilities
Safeguards, Security, and Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 1999 (subtitle
D of title XXXI of
Public Law 106–65
;
42 U.S.C. 7383e
) is repealed.
1062.
Report on
plans for the disposition of the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle
fleet
(a)
Report
Not
later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military
departments and the commanders of the geographic combatant commands, submit to
the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the plans of the
Department of Defense for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle
fleet.
(b)
Elements
The
report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An enumeration of
the number, type, and status of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles that
have been selected for integration into the overall tactical wheeled vehicle
fleet across the Armed Forces, including the reserve components of the Armed
Forces.
(2)
An enumeration of
the number, type, and status of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles that
have been selected for sustainment stocks, prepositioned stocks, or war
reserve, or for training purposes.
(3)
An enumeration of
the number, type, and status of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles that
have been selected for divestiture or some other purpose.
(4)
An analysis of
the lessons learned from the rapid acquisition process used to procure Mine
Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, and recommendations for future rapid
acquisitions processes with respect to similar vehicles.
(5)
A cost-benefit
analysis of the proposed divestiture of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
vehicles, and an identification of opportunities for, and impediments to,
foreign military sale, transfer, or commercial reuse of vehicles proposed for
divestiture.
(6)
A description of
the operations, sustainment, and modernization plans for Mine Resistant Ambush
Protected vehicles proposed for retention by the Armed Forces.
1063.
Report on
foreign language support contracts for the Department of Defense
(a)
In
general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report setting forth an assessment of the current approach of the
Department of Defense for managing foreign language support contracts for the
Department.
(b)
Elements
The
report required by subsection (a) shall set forth the following:
(1)
A description and
analysis of the spending by the Department on all types of foreign language
support services and products acquired by the components of the
Department.
(2)
An assessment, in
light of the analysis under paragraph (1), whether adjustment are needed in the
management of foreign language support contracts for Department in order to
obtain efficiencies in contracts for all types of foreign language support for
the Department.
1064.
Civil Air
Patrol
(a)
Report
The
Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the Civil Air Patrol fleet.
(b)
Elements
The
report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment
whether the current number of aircraft, operating locations, and types of
aircraft in the Civil Air Patrol fleet are suitable for each of the
following:
(A)
Emergency
missions in support of the Air Force, the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
State and local governments, and others.
(B)
Other operational
missions in support of the Air Force, other Federal agencies, State and local
governments, and others.
(C)
Flight
proficiency, flight training, and operational mission training and support for
cadet orientation and cadet flight training programs in every State Civil Air
Patrol wing.
(2)
An assessment of
the ideal overall size of the Civil Air Patrol aircraft fleet, including a
description of the factors used in determining that size.
(3)
An assessment of
the process used by the Civil Air Patrol and the Air Force to determine
aircraft operating locations, and whether State wing commanders are
appropriately involved in that process.
(4)
An assessment of
the process used by the Civil Air Patrol, the Air Force, the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, and others to determine the type of aircraft and number of
aircraft to be needed to support emergency, operational, and training
missions.
1065.
Eagle Vision
system
(a)
Report
required
(1)
In
general
Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of Staff of the Air
Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the
Eagle Vision system.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall
include a description and assessment of the various commands, components of the
Armed Forces, and Defense Agencies to which control of the Eagle Vision system
could be transferred from the Headquarters of the Air Force, including the
actions to be completed before transfer, potential schedules for transfer, and
the effects of transfer on the capabilities of the system or use of the system
by other elements of the Department.
(b)
Limitation on
certain actions
The Secretary of the Air Force may not undertake
any changes to the organization or control of the Eagle Vision system until 90
days after the date of the submittal to the congressional defense committees of
the report required by subsection (a).
H
Other
Matters
1081.
Extension of
Ministry of Defense Advisor Program
(a)
Extension of
authority
Subsection (b) of section 1081 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1599; 10
U.S.C. 168 note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
September 30, 2014
and inserting
September
30, 2019
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2),
by striking
fiscal year 2012, 2013, or 2014
and inserting
a fiscal year ending on or before that date
.
(b)
Update of
policy guidance on authority
The Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy shall issue an update of the policy of the Department of Defense for
assignment of civilian employees of the Department as advisors to foreign
ministries of defense under the authority in section 1081 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by this
section.
(c)
Additional
annual reports
Subsection (c) of such section is amended by
striking
2014
and inserting
2019
.
(d)
Technical
amendment
Subsection (c)(4) of such section is amended by
striking
carried out such by such
and inserting
carried
out by such
.
(e)
Date for
submittal of Comptroller General of the United States
report
Subsection (d) of such section is amended by striking
December 30, 2013
and inserting
December 31,
2014
.
XI
Civilian
Personnel Matters
1101.
Extension of
voluntary reduction-in-force authority for civilian employees of the Department
of Defense
Section 3502(f)(5)
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
September 30,
2014
and inserting
September 30, 2018
.
1102.
Extension of
authority to make lump sum severance payments to Department of Defense
employees
Section 5595(i)(4)
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
October 1,
2014
and inserting
October 1, 2018
.
1103.
Expansion of
protection of employees of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities from
reprisals
Section 1587(b) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
take or fail
to take
the following:
, or threaten to take or fail to
take,
.
1104.
Extension of
enhanced appointment and compensation authority for civilian personnel for care
and treatment of wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces
(a)
Extension
Subsection
(c) of
section 1599c
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2015
both places it appears and inserting
December 31, 2020
.
(b)
Repeal of
fulfilled requirement
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by striking
subsection (b); and
(2)
by redesignating
subsection (c), as amended by subsection (a) of this section, as subsection
(b).
(c)
Repeal of
references to certain title 5 authorities
Subsection (a)(2)(A) of
such section is amended by striking
sections 3304, 5333, and 5753 of
title 5
and inserting
section 3304 of title 5
.
1105.
Amount of
educational assistance under Science, Mathematics, and Research for
Transformation Defense Education Program
Section 2192a(b)(2)
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by striking
the amount determined
and
all that follows through
room and board
and inserting
an
amount determined by the Secretary of Defense
.
1106.
Flexibility
in employment and compensation of civilian faculty at certain additional
Department of Defense schools
Section 1595(c)
of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(5)
The Defense
Institute for Security Assistance Management.
(6)
The Joint Special
Operations
University.
.
1107.
Temporary
authority for direct appointment to certain positions at Department of Defense
research and engineering facilities
(a)
Authority for
direct appointment
(1)
Candidates for
scientific and engineering positions at science and technology reinvention
laboratories
The Secretary of Defense may appoint qualified
candidates possessing a bachelor’s degree to positions described in paragraph
(1) of subsection (b) as an employee in a laboratory described in that
paragraph without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of
title 5, United States Code (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such
title).
(2)
Veteran
candidates for similar positions at research and engineering
facilities
The Secretary may appoint qualified veteran candidates
to positions described in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) as an employee at a
laboratory, agency, or organization specified in that paragraph without regard
to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, United States
Code.
(b)
Covered
positions
(1)
Candidates for
scientific and engineering positions
The positions described in
this paragraph are scientific and engineering positions in any laboratory
designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2486;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) as a
Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory.
(2)
Qualified
veteran candidates
The positions described in this paragraph are
scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics positions, including
technicians, in the following:
(A)
Any laboratory
referred to in paragraph (1).
(B)
Any other
Department of Defense research and engineering agency or organization
designated by the Secretary for purposes of subsection (a)(2).
(c)
Limitation on
number appointable in any calendar year
(1)
In
general
The authority under this section may not, in any calendar
year and with respect to any laboratory, agency, or organization described in
subsection (b), be exercised with respect to a number of candidates greater
than the following:
(A)
In the case of a
laboratory described in subsection (b)(1) with respect to appointment authority
under subsection (a)(1), the number equal to 1 percent of the total number of
scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are filled as of
the close of the fiscal year last ending before the start of such calendar
year.
(B)
In the case of a
laboratory, agency, or organization described in subsection (b)(2) with respect
to appointment authority under subsection (a)(2), the number equal to 1 percent
of the total number of scientific, technical, engineering, mathematics, and
technician positions in such laboratory, agency, or organization that are
filled as of the close of the fiscal year last ending before the start of such
calendar year.
(2)
Full-time
equivalent basis
For purposes of this subsection, positions and
candidates shall be counted on a full-time equivalent basis.
(d)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
employee
has the meaning given that term in section 2105 of title
5, United States Code.
(2)
The term
veteran
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title
38, United States Code.
(e)
Sunset
Appointments
may not be made under this section after December 31, 2019.
1108.
Modernization
of titles of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities for purposes of certain
civil service laws
Section
2105(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding
paragraph (1) by striking
Army and Air Force Motion Picture Service,
Navy Ship's Stores Ashore
and inserting
Navy Ship Stores
Program
.
XII
Matters
Relating to Foreign Nations
A
Assistance and
Training
1201.
Modification
and extension of authorities relating to program to build the capacity of
foreign military forces
(a)
Availability of
funds
Subsection (c)(5) of section 1206 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
; 119 Stat. 3456), as
most recently amended by section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1979), is further
amended—
(1)
by striking
not more than $75,000,000 may be used during fiscal year 2010, not more
than $75,000,000 may be used during fiscal year 2011, and
; and
(2)
by striking
each of fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2014
and inserting
each fiscal year through fiscal year 2018
.
(b)
Extension of
program authorization
Subsection (g) of such section, as so
amended, is further amended—
(1)
by striking
September 30, 2014
and inserting
September 30,
2018
; and
(2)
by striking
through 2014
and inserting
through 2018
.
(c)
Report
Not
later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submit to the
congressional defense committees a report on the scope of counterterrorism
operations for which assistance is authorized to be provided under section 1206
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006. The report
shall include the following:
(1)
A statement of
the purposes for which assistance may be provided under the authority of
section 1206 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006,
consistent with the Presidential Policy Directive on United States Security
Sector Assistance issued on April 5, 2013.
(2)
A description of
the types of activities that are appropriately within the scope of capacity
building assistance under such authority.
(3)
A description and
assessment of the monitoring and evaluation procedures for such assistance,
including measures of effectiveness applicable to counterterrorism capacity
building activities under such authority.
(4)
A prioritized
list and discussion of the primary security threats as of the date of the
report against which counterterrorism capacity building under such authority is
or may be directed, in light of the end of combat operations in Iraq and the
expected completion of combat operations by coalition forces in Afghanistan by
December 2014.
1202.
Revisions to
Global Security Contingency Fund authority
(a)
Authority
Subsection
(b)(1) of section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1625;
22 U.S.C. 2151
note) is
amended—
(1)
in the matter
preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
forces, and
and
inserting
forces, or
; and
(2)
in subparagraph
(A)—
(A)
by striking
and
the second place it appears and inserting
or
;
and
(B)
by striking
; and
and inserting
; or
.
(b)
Annual report
requirement
Subsection (m) of such section is amended in the
matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(1)
by striking
October 30, 2012, and annually thereafter
and inserting
October 30 each year
; and
(2)
by striking
subsection (q)
and inserting
subsection
(o)
.
(c)
Repeal of
fiscal year 2012 transitional authorities
Subsection (n) of such
section is repealed.
(d)
Repeal of
statutory funding limitation
Subsection (o) of such section is
repealed.
(e)
Redesignation
of provisions
Such section is further amended by redesignating
subsections (p) and (q) as subsections (n) and (o), respectively.
1203.
Training of
general purpose forces of the United States Armed Forces with military and
other security forces of friendly foreign countries
(a)
In
general
Under regulations prescribed under subsection (d),
general purpose forces of the United States Armed Forces may train with the
military forces or other security forces of a friendly foreign country if the
Secretary of Defense determines that it is in the national security interests
of the United States to do so. Training may be conducted under this section
only with the prior approval of the Secretary.
(b)
Authority To
pay expenses
(1)
In
general
The Secretary of a military department or the commander
of a combatant command may pay, or authorize payment for, the incremental
expenses incurred by a friendly foreign country as the direct result of
training with general purpose forces of the United States Armed Forces pursuant
to subsection (a).
(2)
Limitation
The
amount of incremental expenses payable under paragraph (1) in any fiscal year
may not exceed $15,000,000.
(c)
Reports to
Congress
Not later than April 1 of each year following a fiscal
year in which training is conducted pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representative a report on the training conducted pursuant to that
subsection during that fiscal year. Each report shall specify, for the fiscal
year covered by such report, the following:
(1)
Each country in
which training was conducted.
(2)
The type of
training conducted, the duration of such training, the number of members of the
United States Armed Forces involved in such training.
(3)
The extent of
participation in such training by foreign military forces and other security
forces, including the number and service affiliation of foreign military and
other security force personnel involved and the physical and financial
contribution of each country specified in paragraph (1) in such
training.
(4)
The relationship
of such training to other overseas training programs conducted by the United
States Armed Forces, such as military exercise programs sponsored by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, military exercise programs sponsored by a combatant command,
and military training activities sponsored by a military department (including
deployments for training, short duration exercises, and other similar unit
training events).
(5)
A summary of the
expenditures under subsection (b) in connection with such training.
(6)
A description and
assessment of the unique military training benefits for members of the United
States Armed Forces involved in such training.
(d)
Regulations
Any
training conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be conducted under
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for the administration of
this section. The regulations shall be prescribed not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act. The regulations shall establish
accounting procedures to ensure that any expenditures pursuant to this section
are accounted for and appropriate.
(e)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
incremental expenses
, with respect to a friendly foreign country,
means the reasonable and proper costs of rations, fuel, training ammunition,
and transportation, and other goods and services consumed by such country as a
direct result of that country’s participation in training conducted pursuant to
subsection (a), except that such term does not include pay, allowances, and
other normal costs of such country’s military or security force
personnel.
(2)
The term
other security forces
includes national security forces that
conduct border and maritime security, but does not include civilian
police.
(f)
Expiration
The
authority under this section may not be exercised after September 30,
2018.
1204.
United States
counterterrorism assistance and cooperation in North Africa
(a)
Strategic
framework required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in
coordination with appropriate officials of the Executive Branch, develop a
strategic framework for United States counterterrorism assistance and
cooperation in the Sahel region of Africa, including for programs conducted
under the Trans-Sahara Counter Terrorism Partnership, Operation Enduring
Freedom–Trans Sahara, and related security assistance authorities.
(b)
Elements
The
strategic framework required by subsection (a) shall include the
following:
(1)
An evaluation of
the threat of terrorist organizations operating in the Sahel region to the
national security of the United States.
(2)
An identification
on a regional basis of the primary objectives, priorities, and desired
end-states of United States counterterrorism assistance and cooperation
programs in the region, and of the resources required to achieve such
objectives, priorities, and end-states.
(3)
A methodology for
assessing the effectiveness of United States counterterrorism assistance and
cooperation programs in the region in making progress towards the objectives
and desired end-states identified pursuant to paragraph (2), including an
identification of key benchmarks of such progress.
(4)
Criteria for
bilateral partnerships in the region.
(5)
Plans for
enhancing coordination among United States and international agencies for
planning and implementation of United States counterterrorism assistance and
cooperation programs for the region on a regional basis, rather than a
country-by-country basis, in order to improve coordination among United States
regional and bilateral counterterrorism assistance and cooperation programs in
the region.
(c)
Report
Not
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report that includes the following:
(1)
A comprehensive
description of the strategic framework required by subsection (a).
(2)
A description of
lessons learned regarding the organization and implementation of United States
counterterrorism assistance and cooperation programs for the Sahel region of
Africa, including an evaluation of the performance and commitment of regional
partners in the Sahel region, including Mali in particular, in 2012 and
2013.
(d)
Appropriate
committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives.
1205.
Assistance to
the Government of Jordan for border security operations
(a)
Authority
If
the President determines that it is in the national security interests of the
United States, the Secretary of Defense may furnish assistance, including on a
reimbursement basis, to the armed forces of Jordan on such terms as the
President considers appropriate for purposes of supporting and maintaining the
ability of the armed forces of Jordan to maintain security along the border
between Jordan and Syria.
(b)
Funds
Available
The Secretary of Defense may use the following funds to
furnish assistance pursuant to subsection (a):
(1)
Funds authorized
to be appropriated by section 1504 and available for the Department of Defense
for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the
funding table in section 4302.
(2)
Funds authorized
to be appropriated by title XV of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
) and available for reimbursement of
certain coalition nations for support provided to United States military
operations pursuant to section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
) that remain available for obligation
and expenditure for such reimbursements as of October 1, 2013.
(c)
Limitations
(1)
Limitation on
amount
The total amount of assistance, including reimbursements,
provided under the authority in subsection (a) may not exceed the
following:
(A)
In the case of
assistance using amounts available under subsection (b)(1), $75,000,000.
(B)
In the case of
assistance using amounts available under subsection (b)(2), $75,000,000.
(2)
Applicability
of certain regulations
The provision of any reimbursements as
assistance under the authority in subsection (a) shall be subject to
regulations applicable to reimbursements of certain coalition nations for
support provided to United States military operations under section 1233 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.
(3)
Prohibition on
contractual obligation
The Secretary of Defense may not enter
into any contractual obligation to provide assistance under subsection
(a).
(d)
Notice to
Congress
(1)
Notice on
determination to use authority
The President shall notify the
congressional defense committees of the determination under subsection (a).
Such notice shall include a full description of the reasons the President
determines that the exercise of the authority in subsection (a) is the national
security interests of the United States.
(2)
Notice before
exercise
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees, not later than 15 days before providing
assistance under the authority in subsection (a), a full description of the
assistance to be provided (including the amount of assistance to be provided)
and the timeline for the provision of such assistance.
(e)
Expiration
No
assistance may be provided under the authority in subsection (a) after December
31, 2014.
1206.
Authority to
conduct activities to enhance the capability of foreign countries to respond to
incidents involving weapons of mass destruction
(a)
Authority
The
Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and
in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, provide assistance to the military and civilian first responders of a
foreign country in order for that country to respond effectively to incidents
involving weapons of mass destruction.
(b)
Authorized
elements
Assistance provided under this section may include
training, equipment, and supplies.
(c)
Availability of
funds for activities across fiscal years
Amounts available for
any fiscal year for the provision of assistance under the authority in
subsection (a) may be used for an activity to provide such assistance that
begins in that fiscal year but ends in the next fiscal year.
(d)
Interagency
coordination
In carrying out this section, the Secretary of
Defense shall comply with any otherwise applicable requirement for coordination
or consultation within the executive branch.
1207.
Support of
foreign forces participating in operations to disarm the Lord's Resistance
Army
(a)
Authority
Pursuant
to the policy established by the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and
Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (
Public Law 111–172
; 124 Stat. 1209), the
Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence of Secretary of State, provide
logistic support, supplies and services, and intelligence support, to foreign
forces participating in operations to mitigate and eliminate the threat posed
by the Lord’s Resistance Army as follows:
(1)
The national
military forces of Uganda.
(2)
The national
military forces of any other country determined by the Secretary of Defense to
be participating in such operations.
(b)
Funding
(1)
In
general
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal
year for the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance, not more than
$50,000,000 may be utilized in such fiscal year to provide support under
subsection (a).
(2)
Availability of
funds across fiscal years
Amounts available under this subsection
for a fiscal year for support under the authority in subsection (a) may be used
for support under that authority that begins in such fiscal year but ends in
the next fiscal year.
(c)
Limitations
The
Secretary of Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to provide any
type of support that is otherwise prohibited by any provision of law.
(d)
Notice to
congress on support To be provided
Not less than 15 days before
the date on which funds are obligated to provide support under subsection (a),
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress
a notice setting forth the following:
(1)
The type of
support to be provided.
(2)
The national
military forces to be supported.
(3)
The objectives of
such support.
(4)
The estimated
cost of such support.
(5)
The intended
duration of such support.
(e)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The term
logistic support, supplies, and services
has the meaning given
that term in
section 2350(1)
of title 10, United States Code.
(f)
Expiration
The
authority provided under this section may not be exercised after the
termination by the Secretary of Defense of Operation Observant Compass.
(g)
Repeal of
superseded authority
Section 1206 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1624; 22
U.S.C. 2151 note) is repealed.
B
Matters Relating
to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq
1211.
Commanders’
Emergency Response Program in Afghanistan
(a)
One year
extension
(1)
In
general
Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1619), as amended by section
1221 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 1992), is further amended by striking
fiscal year
2013
each place it appears and inserting
fiscal year
2014
.
(2)
Conforming
amendment
The heading of subsection (a) of such section is
amended by striking
for
fiscal year 2013
.
(b)
Funds available
during fiscal year 2014
Subsection (a) of such section is further
amended by striking
$200,000,000
and inserting
$60,000,000
.
(c)
Repeal of
requirement for quarterly briefings
Subsection (b) of such
section is amended—
(1)
in the subsection
heading, by striking
and
briefings
; and
(2)
by striking
paragraph (3).
(d)
Review
required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Department of
Defense Office of the Inspector General, the Special Inspector General for
Afghanistan Reconstruction, the Special Inspector General for Iraq
Reconstruction, and the Government Accountability Office, shall submit to
Congress a comprehensive report on lessons learned and best practices from
execution of the Commanders’ Emergency Response Program (CERP) from Iraq and
Afghanistan.
(e)
Contents of
report
The report required by subsection (d) shall include a
description of CERP best practices and lessons learned related to:
(1)
Requirements,
training, and/or certifications for CERP managers in the field and
headquarters.
(2)
Project planning,
execution, management, closeout, sustainability, and transfer to host
government.
(3)
Project approval
process, including appropriate approval levels for higher-value
projects.
(4)
Project
monitoring and evaluation.
(5)
Control and
accountability of funds.
(6)
Procurement
procedures, including local procurement.
(7)
Processes to
maintain flexibility and rapid implementation of funds, but retain
accountability of CERP projects.
(8)
Reporting
requirements to the Defense Department and Congress.
(9)
Recommendations
for the use of CERP in future contingency operations.
(10)
Recommendations
for developing a CERP handbook for use by future CERP administrators.
1212.
Extension and
modification of authority to support operations and activities of the Office of
Security Cooperation in Iraq
(a)
Extension and
modification of authority
Subsection (f) of section 1215 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is
amended—
(1)
by striking
(f)
and all that follows through
fiscal year
2013,
and inserting the following:
(f)
Additional
authority for activities of OSCI
(1)
In
general
During fiscal year
2014,
;
and
(2)
by adding at the
end the following new paragraph (2):
(2)
Required
elements of training
The training conducted under paragraph (1)
shall include elements that promote the following:
(A)
Observance of and
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
(B)
Military
professionalism.
(C)
Respect for
legitimate civilian authority within
Iraq.
.
(b)
Limitation on
amount
Subsection (c) of such section is amended by striking
2012
and all that follows through the period at the end and
inserting
2014 may not exceed $209,000,000.
.
(c)
Source of
funds
Subsection (d) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking
fiscal year 2012 or fiscal year 2013
and inserting
fiscal
year 2014
; and
(2)
by striking
fiscal year 2012 or 2013, as the case may be,
and inserting
that fiscal year
.
(d)
Updates of
report on activities of OSCI
Section 1211(d)(3) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat.
1983) is amended—
(1)
by striking
Update
required
.—Not later than September 30, 2013,
and
inserting
Updates
required
.—Not later than September 30, 2013, and every 180
days thereafter until the authority in section 1215 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 expires,
; and
(2)
by striking
including
and all that follows and inserting “including the
following:
(A)
A description of
any changes to the specific element or process described in subparagraphs (A)
through (F) of paragraph (2).
(B)
An evaluation of
the activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq based on the
measures of effectiveness described in paragraph (2)(F) and a discussion of any
determinations to expand, alter, or terminate specific activities of the Office
based on those measures.
(C)
An evaluation of
the effectiveness of the training provided pursuant to section 1215(f)(2) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 in promoting
respect for human rights, military professionalism, and respect for legitimate
civilian authority in
Iraq.
.
1213.
One-year
extension and modification of authority to use funds for reintegration
activities in Afghanistan
Section 1216 of the Ike Skelton National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat.
4392), as most recently amended by section 1218 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1990), is
further amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a)—
(A)
by striking
$35,000,000
and inserting
$25,000,000
; and
(B)
by striking
for fiscal year 2013
and inserting
for fiscal year
2014
; and
(2)
in subsection
(e), by striking
December 31, 2013
and inserting
December
31, 2014
.
1214.
One-year
extension and modification of authority for program to develop and carry out
infrastructure projects in Afghanistan
(a)
Extension of
authority
Section 1217(f) of the Ike Skelton National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4393), as
most recently amended by section 1219 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 1991), is further
amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Up to
$250,000,000 made available to the Department of Defense for operation and
maintenance for fiscal year 2014.
;
and
(2)
in paragraph (3),
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
In the case of
funds for fiscal year 2014, until September 30,
2015.
.
(b)
Effective
date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on
October 1, 2013.
(c)
Report on
transition of project management
(1)
Report
Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, submit
to the congressional defense committees a plan for the transition to the
Government of Afghanistan, or a utility entity owned by the Government of
Afghanistan, of the project management of projects funded with amounts
authorized by this Act for the Afghanistan Infrastructure Fund. Such transition
shall be planned to be completed by not later December 31, 2014.
(2)
Elements
The
report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of
the projects to be transitioned as described in that paragraph, the cost of
such projects, and the timelines for completion and other key implementation
milestones for such projects.
(B)
For each such
project the following:
(i)
An
estimate of the financial and other requirements necessary to manage such
project, and sustain the infrastructure developed through such project, on an
annual basis after the completion of such project.
(ii)
An
assessment of the capacity of the Government of Afghanistan or such utility
entity to manage such project, and maintain and use the infrastructure
developed through such project, after the completion of such project.
(iii)
A
description of any arrangements, and an estimate of associated costs, to
support the Government of Afghanistan or such utility entity if the Government
of Afghanistan or such utility entity, as the case may be, lacks the capacity
(in either financial or human resources) to manage such project, or sustain the
infrastructure developed through such project, following the completion of such
project.
(C)
An assessment of
the ministries or organizations of Afghanistan that will be responsible for the
management of such projects after transition, including an assessment of any
critical institutional shortfalls of such ministries and organizations that
must be addressed for such ministries and organization to acquire the capacity
required to assume project management responsibilities for such
projects.
1215.
Extension of
authority for reimbursement of certain coalition nations for support provided
to United States military operations
(a)
Extension of
authority
Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat. 393), as
most recently amended by section 1227 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2000), is further amended
by striking
fiscal year 2013
and inserting
fiscal year
2014
.
(b)
Limitation on
amount available
Subsection (d)(1) of such section 1233, as so
amended, is further amended by striking
during fiscal year 2013 may not
exceed $1,650,000,000
and inserting
during fiscal year 2014 may
not exceed $1,500,000,000
.
(c)
Extension of
notice requirement relating to reimbursement of Pakistan for support provided
by Pakistan
Section 1232(b)(6) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 393), as most recently
amended by section 1213(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1630), is further amended by striking
September 30, 2013
and inserting
September 30,
2014
.
(d)
Extension of
limitation on reimbursement of Pakistan pending certification on
Pakistan
Subsection (d) of section 1227 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2000) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection
heading, by striking
in
fiscal year 2013
and inserting
in certain fiscal
years
; and
(2)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
Effective as of the date of the enactment of this Act, no
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act,
and inserting
No amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense
for fiscal year 2013 or 2014,
.
1216.
Extension of
logistical support for coalition forces supporting certain United States
military operations
Section
1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law
110–181; 122 Stat. 394), as most recently amended by section 1216(a) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
;
126 Stat. 1989), is further amended by striking
fiscal year 2013
each place it appears and inserting
fiscal year 2014
.
1217.
Extension
and improvement of the Iraqi special immigrant visa program
The Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act of 2007 (8
U.S.C. 1157 note) is amended—
(1)
in section
1242, by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
(c)
Improved
application process
Not later than 120 days after the date of the
enactment of the
National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense, shall improve the efficiency by which applications for special
immigrant visas under section 1244(a) are processed so that all steps
incidental to the issuance of such visas, including required screenings and
background checks, are completed not later than 9 months after the date on
which an eligible alien applies for such
visa.
;
(2)
in section
1244—
(A)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
in paragraph
(1)—
(I)
by amending
subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
(B)
was or is
employed in Iraq on or after March 20, 2003, for not less than 1 year, by, or
on behalf of—
(i)
the United
States Government;
(ii)
a media or
nongovernmental organization headquartered in the United States; or
(iii)
an
organization or entity closely associated with the United States mission in
Iraq that has received United States Government funding through an official and
documented contract, award, grant, or cooperative
agreement;
;
(II)
in
subparagraph (C), by striking
the United States Government
and
inserting
an entity or organization described in subparagraph
(B)
; and
(III)
in
subparagraph (D), by striking by striking
the United States
Government.
and inserting
such entity or organization.
;
and
(ii)
in paragraph
(4)—
(I)
by striking
A recommendation
and inserting the following:
(A)
In
general
Except as provided under subparagraph (B), a
recommendation
;
(II)
by striking
the United States Government prior
and inserting
an
entity or organization described in paragraph (1)(B) prior
; and
(III)
by adding
at the end the following:
(B)
Review
process for denial by Chief of Mission
(i)
In
general
An applicant who has been denied Chief of Mission
approval required by subparagraph (A) shall—
(I)
receive a
written decision; and
(II)
be provided
120 days from the date of the decision to request reopening of the decision to
provide additional information, clarify existing information, or explain any
unfavorable information.
(ii)
Senior
coordinator
The Secretary of State shall designate, in the
Embassy of the United States in Baghdad, Iraq, a senior coordinator responsible
for overseeing the efficiency and integrity of the processing of special
immigrant visas under this section, who shall be given—
(I)
sufficiently
high security clearance to review Chief of Mission denials in cases that appear
to have relied upon insufficient or incorrect information; and
(II)
responsibility
for ensuring that an applicant described in clause (i) receives the information
described in clause (i)(I).
;
and
(B)
in subsection
(c)(3), by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Fiscal year
2014
Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), and consistent
with subsection (b), any unused balance of the total number of principal aliens
who may be provided special immigrant status under this section in fiscal years
2008 through 2013 may be carried forward and provided through the end of fiscal
year 2014.
;
and
(3)
in section
1248, by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Report on
improvements
(1)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of the
National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014
, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit
a report, with a classified annex, if necessary, to—
(A)
the Committee
on the Judiciary of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(C)
the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
(D)
the Committee
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Contents
The
report submitted under paragraph (1) shall describe the implementation of
improvements to the processing of applications for special immigrant visas
under section 1244(a), including information relating to—
(A)
enhancing
existing systems for conducting background and security checks of persons
applying for special immigrant status, which shall—
(i)
support
immigration security; and
(ii)
provide for
the orderly processing of such applications without delay;
(B)
the
financial, security, and personnel considerations and resources necessary to
carry out this subtitle;
(C)
the number of
aliens who have applied for special immigrant visas under section 1244 during
each month of the preceding fiscal year;
(D)
the reasons
for the failure to expeditiously process any applications that have been
pending for longer than 9 months;
(E)
the total
number of applications that are pending due to the failure—
(i)
to receive
approval from the Chief of Mission;
(ii)
for U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services to complete the adjudication of the Form
I–360;
(iii)
to conduct
a visa interview; or
(iv)
to issue the
visa to an eligible alien;
(F)
the average
wait times for an applicant at each of the stages described in subparagraph
(E);
(G)
the number of
denials or rejections at each of the stages described in subparagraph (E);
and
(H)
a breakdown
of reasons for denials at by the Chief of Mission based on the categories
already made available to denied special immigrant visa applicants in the
denial letter sent to them by the Chief of Mission.
(g)
Public
quarterly reports
Not later than 120 days after the date of the
enactment of the
National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
, and every 3 months
thereafter, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall publish a report on the
website of the Department of State that describes the efficiency improvements
made in the process by which applications for special immigrant visas under
section 1244(a) are processed, including information described in subparagraphs
(C) through (H) of subsection
(f)(2).
.
1218.
Extension
and improvement of the Afghan special immigrant visa program
Section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies
Protection Act of 2009 (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
in
subparagraph (A)—
(i)
by amending
clause (ii) to read as follows:
(ii)
was or is
employed in Afghanistan on or after October 7, 2001, for not less than 1 year,
by, or on behalf of—
(I)
the United
States Government;
(II)
a media or
nongovernmental organization headquartered in the United States; or
(III)
an
organization or entity closely associated with the United States mission in
Afghanistan that has received United States Government funding through an
official and documented contract, award, grant, or cooperative
agreement;
;
(ii)
in clause
(iii), by striking
the United States Government
and inserting
an entity or organization described in clause (ii)
; and
(iii)
in clause
(iv), by striking by striking
the United States Government.
and
inserting
such entity or organization.
;
(B)
by amending
subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
(B)
Family
members
An alien is described in this subparagraph if the alien
is—
(i)
the spouse or
minor child of a principal alien described in subparagraph (A) who is
accompanying or following to join the principal alien in the United States;
or
(ii)
(I)
the spouse, child,
parent, or sibling of a principal alien described in subparagraph (A), whether
or not accompanying or following to join; and
(II)
has experienced or is experiencing an
ongoing serious threat as a consequence of the qualifying employment of a
principal alien described in subparagraph
(A).
;
and
(C)
in
subparagraph (D)—
(i)
by striking
A recommendation
and inserting the following:
(i)
In
general
Except as provided under clause (ii), a
recommendation
;
(ii)
by striking
the United States Government prior
and inserting
an
entity or organization described in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) prior
;
and
(iii)
by adding
at the end the following:
(ii)
Review
process for denial by Chief of Mission
(I)
In
general
An applicant who has been denied Chief of Mission
approval shall—
(aa)
receive a
written decision; and
(bb)
be provided
120 days from the date of receipt of such opinion to request reconsideration of
the decision to provide additional information, clarify existing information,
or explain any unfavorable information.
(II)
Senior
coordinator
The Secretary of State shall designate, in the
Embassy of the United States in Kabul, Afghanistan, a senior coordinator
responsible for overseeing the efficiency and integrity of the processing of
special immigrant visas under this section, who shall be given—
(aa)
sufficiently
high security clearance to review Chief of Mission denials in cases that appear
to have relied upon insufficient or incorrect information; and
(bb)
responsibility
for ensuring that an applicant described in subclause (I) receives the
information described in subclause
(I)(aa).
;
(2)
in paragraph
(3)(C), by amending clause (iii) to read as follows:
(iii)
Fiscal
year 2014
For fiscal year 2014, the total number of principal
aliens who may be provided special immigrant status under this section may not
exceed the sum of—
(I)
5,000;
(II)
the
difference between the number of special immigrant visas allocated under this
section for fiscal years 2009 through 2013 and the number of such allocated
visas that were issued; and
(III)
any unused
balance of the total number of principal aliens who may be provided special
immigrant status in fiscal years 2014 through 2018 that have been carried
forward.
;
(3)
in paragraph
(4)—
(A)
in the
heading, by striking
Prohibition on fees
.—
and inserting
Application
process
.—
;
(B)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting the following:
(A)
In
general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of the
National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014
, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall improve
the efficiency by which applications for special immigrant visas under
paragraph (1) are processed so that all steps incidental to the issuance of
such visas, including required screenings and background checks, are completed
not later than 9 months after the date on which an eligible alien applies for
such visa.
(B)
Prohibition
on fees
The Secretary
;
and
(4)
by adding at
the end the following:
(12)
Report on
improvements
Not later than 120 days after the date of the
enactment of the
National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report, with
a classified annex, if necessary, that describes the implementation of
improvements to the processing of applications for special immigrant visas
under this subsection, including information relating to—
(A)
enhancing
existing systems for conducting background and security checks of persons
applying for special immigrant status, which shall—
(i)
support
immigration security; and
(ii)
provide for
the orderly processing of such applications without delay;
(B)
the
financial, security, and personnel considerations and resources necessary to
carry out this section;
(C)
the number of
aliens who have applied for special immigrant visas under this subsection
during each month of the preceding fiscal year;
(D)
the reasons
for the failure to expeditiously process any applications that have been
pending for longer than 9 months;
(E)
the total
number of applications that are pending due to the failure—
(i)
to receive
approval from the Chief of Mission;
(ii)
for U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services to complete the adjudication of the Form
I–360;
(iii)
to conduct
a visa interview; or
(iv)
to issue the
visa to an eligible alien;
(F)
the average
wait times for an applicant at each of the stages described in subparagraph
(E);
(G)
the number of
denials or rejections at each of the stages described in subparagraph (E);
and
(H)
a breakdown
of reasons for denials by the Chief of Mission based on the categories already
made available to denied special immigrant visa applicants in the denial letter
sent to them by the Chief of Mission.
(13)
Public
quarterly reports
Not later than 120 days after the date of the
enactment of the
National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
, and every 3 months
thereafter, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall publish a report on the
website of the Department of State that describes the efficiency improvements
made in the process by which applications for special immigrant visas under
this subsection are processed, including information described in subparagraph
(C) through (H) of paragraph
(12).
.
1219.
Sense of Congress
on commencement of new long-term nation building or large-scale infrastructure
development projects in Afghanistan
It is the sense of Congress that the
Department of Defense should seek not to commence any new long-term nation
building or large-scale infrastructure development project in Afghanistan after
2014.
C
Reports and Other
Matters
1231.
Two-year
extension of authorization for non-conventional assisted recovery
capabilities
Section 943(h) of
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009
(
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4579), as amended by section 1205(g) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125
Stat. 1624), is further amended by striking
2013
and inserting
2015
.
1232.
Element on 5th
generation fighter program in annual report on military and security
developments involving the People’s Republic of China
Section 1202(b) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(20)
The status of
the 5th generation fighter program of the People's Republic of China, including
an assessment of each individual aircraft type, estimated initial and full
operational capability dates, and the ability of such aircraft to provide air
superiority.
.
1233.
Prohibition on use
of funds to enter into contracts or agreements with Rosoboronexport
(a)
Prohibition
None
of the funds authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for
any fiscal year after fiscal year 2013 may be used to enter into a contract,
memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, to make a grant,
to, or to provide a loan or loan guarantee to Rosoboronexport.
(b)
National
security waiver authority
The Secretary of Defense may waive the
applicability of subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such a waiver
is in the national security interests of the United States.
(c)
Requirements
relating to use of funds pursuant to waiver
(1)
Notice to
Congress before obligation of funds
Not later than 30 days before
obligating funds pursuant to the waiver under subsection (b), the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to Congress a notice on the obligation of funds pursuant
to the waiver.
(2)
Report
Not
later than 15 days after the submittal of the notice under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the following:
(A)
An assessment of
the number, if any, of S–300 advanced anti-aircraft missiles that
Rosoboronexport has delivered to the Assad regime in Syria.
(B)
A list of the
known contracts, if any, that Rosoboronexport has signed with the Assad regime
since January 1, 2013.
1234.
Modification
of statutory references to former North Atlantic Treaty Organization support
organizations and related agreements
(a)
Title 10,
United States Code
Section 2350d
of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a)(1)—
(A)
by striking
Weapon System Partnership Agreements
and inserting
Support Partnership Agreements
; and
(B)
in subparagraph
(B), by striking
a specific weapon system
and inserting
activities
.
(2)
by striking
NATO Maintenance and Supply Organization
each place it appears
and inserting
NATO Support Organization and its executive
agencies
; and
(3)
by striking
Weapon System Partnership Agreement
each place it appears and
inserting
Support Partnership Agreement
.
(b)
Arms Export
Control Act
Section 21(e)(3) of the Arms Export Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2761(e)(3)) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraphs
(A) and (C)(i), by striking
Maintenance and Supply Agency of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization
and inserting
North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) Support Organization and its executive
agencies
;
(2)
in subparagraph
(A)(i), by striking
weapon system partnership agreement
and
inserting
support partnership agreement
; and
(3)
in subparagraph
(C)(i)(II), by striking
a specific weapon system
and inserting
activities
.
1235.
Technical
correction relating to funding for NATO Special Operations
Headquarters
Section 1244(a)
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law
111–84; 123 Stat. 2541), as most recently amended by section 1272(a) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
;
126 Stat. 2023), is further amended by striking
for the
Army
.
1236.
Strategy to prevent
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials in the
Middle East and North Africa region
(a)
Strategy
required
The President shall establish a comprehensive strategy
to advance cooperative efforts with the governments of countries in the Middle
East and North Africa to reduce the threat from the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and related materials in the Middle East and North Africa
region.
(b)
Elements
In
establishing the strategy required by subsection (a), the President shall
ensure that the strategy—
(1)
builds upon the
current activities of the nonproliferation programs of the Department of
Defense, the Department of State, the Department of Energy, and other agencies
of the United States Government designed to mitigate the range of threats posed
by weapons of mass destruction and related materials in the Middle East and
North Africa region;
(2)
addresses issues
relating to the threat from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
and related materials in the Middle East and North Africa region on a regional
basis as well as on a country-by-country basis;
(3)
includes a review
of the activities and achievements in the Middle East and North Africa region
of—
(A)
the Cooperative
Threat Reduction program of the Department of Defense;
(B)
the
nonproliferation programs of the Department of State and the Department of
Energy; and
(C)
programs of other
agencies of the United States Government designed to address nuclear, chemical,
and biological safety and security issues;
(4)
provides for the
continued coordination of cooperative nonproliferation efforts within the
United States Government; and
(5)
mobilizes and
leverages additional resources from countries that cooperate with the United
States with respect to nonproliferation efforts, nongovernmental and
multilateral organizations, and international institutions.
(c)
Integration and
coordination
The strategy required by subsection (a) shall
include—
(1)
an assessment of
gaps in current cooperative efforts to reduce the threat from the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction and related materials in the Middle East and
North Africa region;
(2)
an articulation
of the priorities of the United States with respect to reducing that
threat;
(3)
the establishment
of appropriate metrics for determining success with respect to reducing that
threat; and
(4)
methods for
ensuring that the strategy conforms to broader efforts by the United States to
reduce the threat from weapons of mass destruction.
(d)
Consultations
In
establishing the strategy required by subsection (a), the President shall
consult with governmental and nongovernmental experts in matters relating to
nonproliferation that present a diverse set of views.
(e)
Submission of
strategy and implementation plan
Not later than March 31, 2014,
the President shall submit the strategy required by subsection (a) and a plan
for the implementation of the strategy to—
(1)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on
Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives.
XIII
Cooperative
threat reduction
1301.
Specification
of Cooperative Threat Reduction programs and funds
(a)
Specification
of cooperative threat reduction programs
For purposes of section
301 and other provisions of this Act, Cooperative Threat Reduction programs are
the programs specified in section 1501 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (
50 U.S.C. 2362
note).
(b)
Fiscal year
2014 cooperative threat reduction funds defined
As used in this
title, the term
fiscal year 2014 Cooperative Threat Reduction
funds
means the funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of
appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in
section 4301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction programs.
(c)
Availability of
funds
Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of
appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in
section 4301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction programs shall be available for
obligation for fiscal years 2014, 2015, and 2016.
1302.
Funding
allocations
(a)
Funding for
specific purposes
Of the $528,455,000 authorized to be
appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 in section 301
and made available by the funding table in section 4301 for Cooperative Threat
Reduction programs, the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes
specified:
(1)
For strategic
offensive arms elimination, $5,700,000.
(2)
For chemical
weapons destruction, $13,000,000.
(3)
For global
nuclear security, $32,808,000.
(4)
For cooperative
biological engagement, $306,325,000.
(5)
For proliferation
prevention, $136,072,000.
(6)
For threat
reduction engagement, $6,375,000.
(7)
For activities
designated as Other Assessments/Administrative Costs, $28,175,000.
(b)
Report on
obligation or expenditure of funds for other purposes
No fiscal
year 2014 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds may be obligated or expended for a
purpose other than a purpose listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection
(a) until 15 days after the date that the Secretary of Defense submits to
Congress a report on the purpose for which the funds will be obligated or
expended and the amount of funds to be obligated or expended. Nothing in the
preceding sentence shall be construed as authorizing the obligation or
expenditure of fiscal year 2014 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for a
purpose for which the obligation or expenditure of such funds is specifically
prohibited under this title or any other provision of law.
(c)
Limited
authority to vary individual amounts
(1)
In
general
Subject to paragraph (2), in any case in which the
Secretary of Defense determines that it is necessary to do so in the national
interest, the Secretary may obligate amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2014
for a purpose listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (a) in excess
of the specific amount authorized for that purpose.
(2)
Notice-and-wait
required
An obligation of funds for a purpose stated in
paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (a) in excess of the specific amount
authorized for such purpose may be made using the authority provided in
paragraph (1) only after—
(A)
the Secretary
submits to Congress notification of the intent to do so together with a
complete discussion of the justification for doing so; and
(B)
15 days have
elapsed following the date of the notification.
1303.
Extension of
authority for utilization of contributions to the Cooperative Threat Reduction
program
Section 1303(g) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123
Stat. 2557;
22 U.S.C. 5952
note) is amended by striking
December 31,
2015
and inserting
December 31, 2018
.
XIV
Other
Authorizations
A
Military
Programs
1401.
Working
capital funds
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Armed
Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for
providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the
funding table in section 4501.
1402.
National
Defense Sealift Fund
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the National
Defense Sealift Fund, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1403.
Chemical
Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated
for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 for expenses, not otherwise
provided for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, as
specified in the funding table in section 4501.
(b)
Use
Amounts
authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) are authorized for—
(1)
the destruction
of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (
50 U.S.C. 1521
); and
(2)
the destruction
of chemical warfare materiel of the United States that is not covered by
section 1412 of such Act.
1404.
Drug
Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 for expenses,
not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities,
Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1405.
Defense
Inspector General
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal
year 2014 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding
table in section 4501.
1406.
Defense
Health Program
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the Defense
Health Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4501, for use of
the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense
in providing for the health of eligible beneficiaries.
B
Other
Matters
1421.
Authorization
of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home
There
is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 from the Armed
Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $67,800,000 for the operation of
the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
1422.
Authority for
transfer of funds to Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care
Center, Illinois
(a)
Authority for
transfer of funds
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by
section 1406 and available for the Defense Health Program for operation and
maintenance, $143,087,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense to the
Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility
Demonstration Fund established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123
Stat. 2571. For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds
so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated
specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
(b)
Use of
transferred funds
For the purposes of subsection (b) of such
section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred under subsection
(a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health
Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center,
the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated as a
combined Federal medical facility under an operational agreement covered by
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4500).
XV
Authorization of
Additional Appropriations for Overseas Contingency Operations
A
Authorization of
Additional Appropriations
1501.
Purpose
The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize
appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 to provide
additional funds for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the
Armed Forces.
1502.
Procurement
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for procurement accounts for the Army, the
Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as
specified in the funding table in section 4102.
1503.
Research,
development, test, and evaluation
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Department of Defense for
research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table
in section 4202.
1504.
Operation and
maintenance
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Armed
Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as
specified in the funding table in section 4302.
1505.
Military
personnel
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Armed
Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in
the funding table in section 4402.
1506.
Working
capital funds
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the use of the Armed
Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for
providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the
funding table in section 4502.
1507.
National
Defense Sealift Fund
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 for the National
Defense Sealift Fund. as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1508.
Chemical
Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated
for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 for expenses, not otherwise
provided for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, as
specified in the funding table in section 4502.
(b)
Use
Amounts
authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) are authorized for—
(1)
the destruction
of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (
50 U.S.C. 1521
); and
(2)
the destruction
of chemical warfare materiel of the United States that is not covered by
section 1412 of such Act.
1509.
Drug
Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014 for expenses,
not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities,
Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1510.
Defense
Inspector General
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal
year 2014 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding
table in section 4502.
1511.
Defense
Health program
Funds are
hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal
year 2014 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Defense Health
Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
B
Financial
Matters
1521.
Treatment as
additional authorizations
The
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in addition to amounts
otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this Act.
1522.
Special
transfer authority
(a)
Authority To
transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon
determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the
national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made
available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2014
between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions
thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be
available for the same purposes as the authorization to which
transferred.
(2)
Limitation
The
total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the
authority of this subsection may not exceed $4,000,000,000.
(b)
Terms and
conditions
Transfers under this section shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions as transfers under section 1001.
(c)
Additional
authority
The transfer authority provided by this section is in
addition to the transfer authority provided under section 1001.
C
Other
Matters
1531.
Joint
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund
(a)
Use and
transfer of funds
Subsections (b) and (c) of section 1514 of the
John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law
109–364; 120 Stat. 2439), as in effect before the amendments made by section
1503 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4649), shall apply to the funds made
available to the Department of Defense for the Joint Improvised Explosive
Device Defeat Fund for fiscal year 2014.
(b)
Monthly
obligations and expenditure reports
Not later than 15 days after
the end of each month of fiscal year 2014, the Secretary of Defense shall
provide to the congressional defense committees a report on the Joint
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund explaining monthly commitments,
obligations, and expenditures by line of operation.
(c)
Expiration
This
section shall cease to be effective on December 31, 2014.
1532.
Afghanistan
Security Forces Fund
(a)
Continuation of
prior authorities and notice and reporting requirements
Funds available to the Department of
Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2014 shall be
subject to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (g) of section
1513 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law
110–181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the Ike Skelton
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
;
124 Stat. 4424).
(b)
Equipment
disposal
(1)
Acceptance of
certain equipment
The Secretary of Defense may accept equipment
procured using funds authorized under prior Acts that was transferred to the
security forces of Afghanistan and returned by such forces to the United
States.
(2)
Treatment as
Department of Defense stocks
The equipment described in paragraph
(1), and equipment not yet transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan
that is determined by the Commander, Combined Security Transition
Command-Afghanistan (or the Commander’s designee) to no longer be required for
transfer to such forces, may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense
upon notification to the congressional defense committees of such
treatment.
(3)
Reports
Not
later than 30 days after the end of the first two fiscal year quarters of
fiscal year 2014, and not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal
half-year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on the equipment accepted under paragraph (1) during such
fiscal year quarter or half-year, as the case may be. Each report shall
include, for the period covered by such report, a list of all equipment
accepted under paragraph (1) that was treated as the stocks of the Department
pursuant to paragraph (2).
1533.
Extension of
authority for Task Force for Business and Stability Operations in
Afghanistan
(a)
Extension
Subsection
(a) of section 1535 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4426), as most recently amended
by section 1533 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
(
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2058), is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (6),
by striking
and October 31, 2011, October 31, 2012, and October 31,
2013
and inserting
October, 31 of each of 2011 through
2014
; and
(2)
in paragraph (8),
by striking
September 30, 2013
and inserting
December 31,
2014
.
(b)
Funding
Subparagraph
(B) of paragraph (4) of such subsection is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by
striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in clause (ii),
by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
;
and
(3)
by adding at the
end the following new clause:
(iii)
may not exceed
$63,800,000 for fiscal year
2014.
.
(c)
Limitation on
availability of funds for fiscal year 2014
Paragraph (4) of such
subsection is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating
subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D);
(2)
by inserting
after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph (C):
(C)
Limitation on
availability of funds for fiscal year 2014
None of the funds
available for fiscal year 2014 pursuant to subparagraph (B)(iii) may be
obligated to assist the Government of Afghanistan in the development of mining
and oil and gas resources during fiscal year 2014 until the date on which the
Secretary of Defense certifies to the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives that the Government of Afghanistan has
agreed to reimburse the Government of the United States for the amount of any
such funds, from royalties received from mining or oil and gas contracts
awarded by the Government of
Afghanistan.
;
and
(3)
in subparagraph
(D), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by inserting
of funds across fiscal
years
after
Availability
.
(d)
Conversion of
update of implementation of transition action plan from quarterly to
biannually
Paragraph (7)(B) of such subsection is amended by
striking
90 days
and inserting
180 days
.
B
Military
construction authorizations
2001.
Short
title
This division may be
cited as the
Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014
.
2002.
Expiration of
authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law
(a)
Expiration of
authorizations after three years
Except as provided in subsection
(b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI through XXVII for military
construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and
facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor)
shall expire on the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2016;
or
(2)
the date of the
enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year
2017.
(b)
Exception
Subsection
(a) shall not apply to authorizations for military construction projects, land
acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and
authorizations of appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have
been obligated before the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2016;
or
(2)
the date of the
enactment of an Act authorizing funds for fiscal year 2017 for military
construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and
facilities, or contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security
Investment Program.
XXI
Army military
construction
2101.
Authorized
Army construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the
United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2103(1) and available for military
construction projects inside the United States as specified in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army: Inside the United States
State
Installation or
Location
Amount
Alaska
Fort
Wainwright
$103,000,000
Colorado
Fort
Carson
$242,200,000
Florida
Eglin Air
Force Base
$4,700,000
Georgia
Fort
Gordon
$61,000,000
Hawaii
Fort
Shafter
$75,000,000
Kansas
Fort
Leavenworth
$17,000,000
Kentucky
Fort
Campbell
$4,800,000
Maryland
Aberdeen
Proving Found
$21,000,000
Fort
Detrick
$7,100,000
Missouri
Fort
Leonard Wood
$90,700,000
North Carolina
Fort Bragg
$5,900,000
Texas
Fort Bliss
$46,800,00
Virginia
Joint Base
Langley-Eustis
$50,000,000
Washington
Joint Base Lewis McChord
$144,000,000
Yakima
$9,100,000
(b)
Outside the
United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2103(2) and available for military
construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and
carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following
table:
Army: Outside the United States
Country
Installation or
Location
Amount
Kwajalein
Kwajalein Atoll
$63,000,000
Worldwide Classified
Classified Location
$33,000,000
2102.
Family
housing
(a)
Construction
and acquisition
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2103(5)(A) and available for
military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section
4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family housing units
(including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installation, in
the number of units, and in the amount set forth in the following table:
Army: Family Housing
State
Installation
Units
Amount
Wisconsin
Fort McCoy
56
$23,000,000
(b)
Planning and
design
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization
of appropriations in section 2103(5)(A), the Secretary of the Army may carry
out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities
with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an
amount not to exceed $4,408,000.
2103.
Authorization
of appropriations, Army
Funds
are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after
September 30, 2013, for military construction, land acquisition, and military
family housing functions of the Department of the Army in the total amount of
$1,660,154,000 as follows:
(1)
For military
construction projects inside the United States authorized by section 2101(a),
$882,300,000.
(2)
For military
construction projects outside the United States authorized by section 2101(b),
$96,000,000.
(3)
For unspecified
minor military construction projects authorized by
section 2805
of title 10,
United States Code, $25,000,000.
(4)
For architectural
and engineering services and construction design under section 2807 of title
10, United States Code, $74,575,000.
(5)
For military
family housing functions:
(A)
For construction
and acquisition, planning and design, and improvement of military family
housing and facilities, $27,408,000.
(B)
For support of
military family housing (including the functions described in section 2833 of
title 10, United States Code), $512,871,000.
(6)
For the
construction of increment 2 of the Cadet Barracks at the United States Military
Academy, New York, authorized by section 2101(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126
Stat. 2119), $42,000,000.
2104.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2011 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4437) for
Fort Lewis, Washington, for construction of a Regional Logistic Support Complex
at the installation, the Secretary of the Army may construct up to 98,381
square yards of Organizational Vehicle Parking.
2105.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2010 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2101(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2629) for Camp
Arifjan, Kuwait, for construction of APS Warehouses at the camp, the Secretary
of the Army may construct up to 74,976 square meters of hardstand parking,
22,741 square meters of access roads, a 6 megawatt power plant, and 50,724
square meters of humidity-controlled warehouses.
2106.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2004 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of
Public Law 108–136
; 117 Stat. 1697) for
Picatinny Arsenal, New Jersey, for construction of an Explosives Research and
Development Loading Facility at the installation, the Secretary of the Army may
use available unobligated balances of amounts appropriated for military
construction for the Army to complete work on the project within the scope
specified for the project in the justification data provided to Congress as
part of the request for authorization of the project.
2107.
Extension of
authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 projects
(a)
Extensions
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorizations set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act
(124 Stat. 4437), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2014, or the date of
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal
year 2015, whichever is later:
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Army: Extension of 2011 Project
Authorizations
State/Country
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
California
Presidio
Monterey
Advanced Individual Training Barracks
$63,000,000
Georgia
Fort
Benning
Land Acquisition
$12,200,000
New
Mexico
White Sands
Missile Range Barracks
$29,000,000
Germany
Wiesbaden Air
Base
Access Control Point
$5,100,000
2108.
Extension of
authorizations of certain fiscal year 2010 projects
(a)
Extensions
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2010 (division B of
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2627), the authorizations set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act
(123 Stat. 2628), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2014, or the date of
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal
year 2015, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Army: Extension of 2010 Project
Authorizations
State/Country
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Virginia
Fort
Belvoir
Road and Access Control
Point
$9,500,000
Washington
Fort Lewis
Fort Lewis-McCord
AFB Joint Access
$9,000,000
Kuwait
Camp Arifjian
APS Warehouses
$82,000,000
2109.
Limitation on
construction of cadet barracks at United States Military Academy, New
York
No amounts may be
obligated or expended for the construction of increment 2 of the Cadet Barracks
at the United States Military Academy, New York, authorized by section 2101(a)
of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B
of
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2119) until the Secretary of the Army
certifies to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary has
entered into a contract for the renovation of MacArthur Short Barracks at the
United States Military Academy, consistent with the plan provided to the
congressional defense committees in March 2013.
XXII
Navy military
construction
2201.
Authorized
Navy construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2204(1) and available for military
construction projects inside the United States as specified in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
California
Camp
Pendleton
$13,124,000
Coronado
$8,910,000
San Diego
$34,331,000
Twentynine
Palms
$33,437,000
Barstow
$14,998,000
Point Mugu
$24,667,000
Port
Hueneme
$33,600,000
Florida
Jacksonville
$20,752,000
Key West
$14,001,000
Mayport
$16,093,000
Georgia
Albany
$16,610,000
Savannah
$61,717,000
Hawaii
Kaneohe Bay
$236,982,000
Pearl
City
$30,100,000
Pearl
Harbor
$57,998,000
Illinois
Great
Lakes
$35,851,000
Maine
Bangor
$13,800,000
Kittery
$11,522,000
Maryland
Fort Meade
$83,988,000
Nevada
Fallon
$11,334,000
North Carolina
Camp
Lejeune
$77,999,000
New River
$45,863,000
Oklahoma
Tinker Air Force Base
$14,144,000
Rhode Island
Newport
$12,422,000
South Carolina
Charleston
$73,932,000
Virginia
Norfolk
$3,380,000
Quantico
$38,374,000
Yorktown
$18,700,000
Dam Neck
$10,587,000
Washington
Whidbey Island
$117,649,000
Bremerton
$18,189,000
(b)
Outside the
United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2204(2) and available for military
construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and
carry out military construction projects for the installation or location
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following
table:
Navy: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Djibouti
Camp Lemonier
$29,000,000
Guam
Joint Region Marianas
$232,704,000
Japan
Yokosuka
$7,568,000
Camp
Butler
$5,820,000
2202.
Family
housing
Using amounts
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section
2204(5)(A) and available for military family housing functions as specified in
the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out
architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount
not to exceed $4,438,000.
2203.
Improvements
to military family housing units
Subject to
section 2825
of title 10, United
States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of
appropriations in section 2204(5)(A) and available for military family housing
functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of
the Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to
exceed $68,969,000.
2204.
Authorization
of appropriations, Navy
Funds
are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after
September 30, 2013, for military construction, land acquisition, and military
family housing functions of the Department of the Navy in the total amount of
$2,077,847,000, as follows:
(1)
For military
construction projects inside the United States authorized by section 2201(a),
$1,205,054,000.
(2)
For military
construction projects outside the United States authorized by section 2201(b),
$275,092,000.
(3)
For unspecified
minor military construction projects authorized by
section 2805
of title 10,
United States Code, $19,740,000.
(4)
For architectural
and engineering services and construction design under section 2807 of title
10, United States Code, $89,830,000.
(5)
For military
family housing functions:
(A)
For construction
and acquisition, planning and design, and improvement of military family
housing and facilities, $73,407,000.
(B)
For support of
military family housing (including functions described in section 2833 of title
10, United States Code), $389,844,000.
(6)
For the
construction of increment 3 of the Explosives Handling Wharf No. 2 at Kitsap,
Washington, authorized by section 2201(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
Public Law 112–81
; 125
Stat. 1666), as modified by section 2205 of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126
Stat. 2124) $24,880,000.
2205.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2012 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1666), for
Kitsap Washington, for construction of Explosives Handling Wharf No. 2 at that
location, the Secretary of the Navy may construct new hardened facilities in
lieu of hardening existing structures and may construct a new facility to
replace the existing Coast Guard Maritime Force Protection Unit and the Naval
Undersea Warfare Command unhardened facilities using appropriations available
for the project.
2206.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2011 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2201(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4441), for
Southwest Asia, Bahrain, for construction of Navy Central Command Ammunition
Magazines at that location, the Secretary of the Navy may construct additional
Type C earth covered magazines (to provide a project total of 18), 10 new
modular storage magazines, an inert storage facility, a maintenance and ground
support equipment facility, concrete pads for portable ready service lockers,
and associated supporting facilities using appropriations available for the
project.
2207.
One-year
extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act
(124 Stat. 4441), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2014, or the date of
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal
year 2015, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Navy: Extension of 2011 Project
Authorization
Country
Installation
or Location
Project
Amount
Bahrain
Island
Southwest Asia
Navy Central Command Ammunition
Magazines
$89,280,000
2208.
Two-year
extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act
(124 Stat. 4441), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the date of
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal
year 2016, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Navy: Extension of 2011 Project
Authorization
Country
Installation
or Location
Project
Amount
Guam
Guam
Defense Access Roads Improvements
$66,730,000
XXIII
Air force
military construction
2301.
Authorized
Air Force construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2304(1) and available for military
construction projects inside the United States as specified in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
Arizona
Luke Air Force Base
$26,900,000
California
Beale Air Force Base
$62,000,000
Florida
Tyndall Air Force Base
$9,100,000
Hawaii
Joint Base
Pearl Harbor-Hickam
$4,800,000
Kansas
McConnell Air Force
Base
$219,120,000
Kentucky
Fort
Campbell
$8,000,000
Maryland
Fort
Meade
$358,000,000
Joint Base
Andrews
$30,000,000
Missouri
Whiteman Air Force Base
$5,900,000
Nevada
Nellis Air Force Base
$78,500,000
New Mexico
Cannon Air Force Base
$34,100,000
Holloman Air Force
Base
$2,250,000
Kirtland Air Force
Base
$30,500,000
North Dakota
Minot Air Force Base
$23,830,000
Oklahoma
Altus Air Force Base
$30,850,000
Tinker Air Force
Base
$8,600,000
Texas
Fort Bliss
$3,350,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$32,000,000
Virginia
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
$4,800,000
(b)
Outside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2304(2) and available for military
construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property
and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following
table:
Air Force: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Greenland
Thule Air Base
$43,904,000
Guam
Joint
Region Marianas
$23,630,000
Mariana Islands
Saipan
$29,300,000
2302.
Family
housing
Using amounts
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section
2304(5)(A) and available for military family housing functions as specified in
the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out
architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount
not to exceed $4,267,000.
2303.
Improvements
to military family housing units
Subject to
section 2825
of title 10, United
States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of
appropriations in section 2304(5)(A) and available for military family housing
functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of
the Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an amount
not to exceed $72,093,000.
2304.
Authorization
of appropriations, Air Force
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2013, for military
construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the
Department of the Air Force in the total amount of $1,702,154,000, as
follows:
(1)
For military
construction projects inside the United States authorized by section 2301(a),
$972,600,000.
(2)
For military
construction projects outside the United States authorized by section 2301(b),
$96,834,000.
(3)
For unspecified
minor military construction projects authorized by
section 2805
of title 10,
United States Code, $20,448,000.
(4)
For architectural
and engineering services and construction design under section 2807 of title
10, United States Code, $11,314,000.
(5)
For military
family housing functions:
(A)
For construction
and acquisition, planning and design, and improvement of military family
housing and facilities, $76,360,000.
(B)
For support of
military family housing (including functions described in section 2833 of title
10, United States Code), $388,598,000.
(6)
For the
construction of increment 3 of the United States Strategic Command Replacement
Facility at Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, authorized by section 2301(a) of
the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
the
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1670), $136,000,000.
2305.
Extension of
authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act
(124 Stat. 4444), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2014, or the date of
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal
year 2015, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
Air Force: Extension of 2011 Project
Authorization
Country
Installation
or
Location
Project
Amount
Bahrain
Shaikh Isa Air
Base
North Apron Expansion
$45,000,000
XXIV
Defense
agencies military construction
A
Defense agency
authorizations
2401.
Authorized
Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2403(1) and available for military
construction projects inside the United States as specified in section 4601,
the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Defense Agencies: Inside the United
States
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Alaska
Clear Air Force Station
$17,204,000
Fort Greely
$82,000,000
California
Miramar
$6,000,000
Defense
Distribution Depot-Tracy
$37,554,000
Brawley
$23,095,000
Colorado
Fort Carson
$22,282,000
Florida
Hurlburt Field
$7,900,000
Jacksonville
$7,500,000
Tyndall Air
Force Base
$9,500,000
Key West
$3,600,000
Panama City
$2,600,000
Georgia
Fort Benning
$43,335,000
Fort Stewart
$44,504,000
Moody Air
Force Base
$3,800,000
Hunter Army
Airfield
$13,500,000
Hawaii
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
$2,800,000
Ford Island
$2,615,000
Kentucky
Fort Campbell
$124,211,000
Fort Knox
$303,023,000
Maryland
Aberdeen Proving Ground
$210,000,000
Bethesda
Naval Hospital
$66,800,000
Massachusetts
Hanscom Air Force Base
$36,213,000
New Jersey
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
$10,000,000
New Mexico
Holloman Air Force
Base
$81,400,000
North Carolina
Camp Lejeune
$43,377,000
Fort Bragg
$172,065,000
North Dakota
Minot Air Force Base
$6,400,000
Oklahoma
Tinker Air Force Base
$36,000,000
Altus Air
Force Base
$2,100,000
Pennsylvania
Defense Distribution Depot New Cumberland
$9,000,000
South Carolina
Beaufort
$41,324,000
Tennessee
Arnold Air Force Base
$2,200,000
Texas
Joint Base San Antonio
$12,600,000
Virginia
Joint Expeditionary Base Little
Creek - Story
$30,404,000
Quantico
$40,586,000
Dam
Neck
$11,147,000
DLA Aviation
Richmond
$87,000,000
Pentagon
$57,600,000
Washington
Whidbey Island
$10,000,000
(b)
Outside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2403(2) and available for military
construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and
carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following
table:
Defense Agencies: Outside the United
States
Country
Installation or Location
Amount
Bahrain Island
Southwest Asia
$45,400,000
Belgium
Brussels
$67,613,000
Japan
Iwakuni
$34,000,000
Kadena Air Base
$38,792,000
Yokosuka
$10,600,000
Atsugi
$4,100,000
Torri Commo Station
$71,451,000
Korea
Camp Walker
$52,164,000
Worldwide Classified
Classified Location
$15,000,000
2402.
Authorized
energy conservation projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2403(6) and available for military
construction projects inside and outside the United States as specified in
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation
projects under
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, in the amount of
$150,000,000.
2403.
Authorization
of appropriations, Defense Agencies
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2013, for military
construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the
Department of Defense (other than the military departments) in the total amount
of $3,313,284,000, as follows:
(1)
For military
construction projects inside the United States authorized by section 2401(a),
$1,723,239,000.
(2)
For military
construction projects outside the United States authorized by section 2401(b),
$339,120,000.
(3)
For unspecified
minor military construction projects under
section 2805
of title 10, United
States Code, $43,817,000.
(4)
For contingency
construction projects of the Secretary of Defense under section 2804 of title
10, United States Code, $10,000,000.
(5)
For architectural
and engineering services and construction design under section 2807 of title
10, United States Code, $237,838,000.
(6)
For energy
conservation projects under
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code,
$150,000,000.
(7)
For military
family housing functions:
(A)
For support of
military family housing (including functions described in section 2833 of title
10, United States Code), $55,845,000.
(B)
For credits to
the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund under section 2883 of
title 10, United States Code, and the Homeowners Assistance Fund established
under section 1013 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act
of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 3374
), $1,780,000.
(8)
For the
construction of increment 8 of the Army Medical Research Institute of
Infectious Diseases Stage I at Fort Detrick, Maryland, authorized by section
2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2007
(division B of
Public Law 109–364
; 120 Stat. 2457), $13,000,000.
(9)
For the
construction of increment 5 of the hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas, authorized by
section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2010 (division B of
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2642), $100,000,000.
(10)
For the
construction of increment 3 of the High Performance Computing Center at Fort
Meade, Maryland, authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
Public Law 112–81
; 125
Stat. 1672), as amended by section 2404(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126
Stat. 2131), $381,000,000.
(11)
For the
construction of increment 3 of the Medical Center Replacement at Rhine Ordnance
Barracks, Germany, authorized by section 2401(b) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
Public Law 112–81
; 125
Stat. 1673), as amended by section 2404(b) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126
Stat. 2131), $76,545,000.
(12)
For the
construction of increment 2 of the Ambulatory Care Center at Joint Base
Andrews, Maryland, authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of
Public Law 112–81
; 125
Stat. 1673), $38,100,000.
(13)
For the
construction of increment 2 of the NSAW Recapitalize Building #1 at Fort Meade,
Maryland, authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126
Stat. 2127), $58,000,000.
(14)
For the
construction of increment 2 of the Aegis Ashore Missile Defense System Complex
at Deveselu, Romania, authorized by section 2401(b) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 2128), $85,000,000.
B
Chemical
demilitarization authorizations
2411.
Authorization
of appropriations, chemical demilitarization construction,
Defense-wide
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30,
2013, for the construction of phase XIV of a munitions demilitarization
facility at Blue Grass Army Depot, Kentucky, authorized by section 2401(a) of
the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 835), as most recently amended by section 2412 of
the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4450), $122,536,000.
XXV
North Atlantic
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
2501.
Authorized
NATO construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of Defense may make
contributions for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment
Program as provided in
section 2806
of title 10, United States Code, in an
amount not to exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for
this purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously financed by the
United States.
2502.
Authorization
of appropriations, NATO
Funds
are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after
September 30, 2013, for contributions by the Secretary of Defense under section
2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the share of the United States of the
cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment
Program authorized by section 2501, in the amount of $239,700,000.
XXVI
Guard and
reserve forces facilities
A
Project
authorizations and authorization of appropriations
2601.
Authorized
Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2606(1) and available for the
National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for
the Army National Guard locations inside the United States, and in the amounts,
set forth in the following table:
Army National Guard: Inside the United
States
State
Location
Amount
Alabama
Decatur
$4,000,000
Arkansas
Fort
Chaffee
$21,000,000
Florida
Pinellas
Park
$5,700,000
Illinois
Kankakee
$42,000,000
Massachusetts
Camp
Edwards
$19,000,000
Michigan
Camp
Grayling
$17,000,000
Minnesota
Stillwater
$17,000,000
Mississippi
Camp Shelby
$3,000,000
Pascagoula
$4,500,000
Missouri
Whitman Air Force
Base
$5,000,000
Macon
$9,100,000
New York
New
York
$31,000,000
Ohio
Ravenna Army Ammunition
Plant
$5,200,000
Pennsylvania
Fort Indiantown Gap
$40,000,000
South
Carolina
Greenville
$26,000,000
Texas
Fort Worth
$14,270,000
Wyoming
Afton
$10,200,000
(b)
Outside the
united states
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2606(1) and available for the
National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for
the Army National Guard locations outside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army National Guard: Outside the United
States
Country
Location
Amount
Puerto
Rico
Camp Santiago
$5,600,000
2602.
Authorized
Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2606(2) and available for the
National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for
the Army Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set
forth in the following table:
Army Reserve
State
Location
Amount
California
Fort Hunter Liggett
$16,500,000
Camp
Parks
$17,500,000
Maryland
Bowie
$25,500,000
New Jersey
Joint Base
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
$36,200,000
New York
Bullville
$14,500,000
North Carolina
Fort
Bragg
$24,500,000
Wisconsin
Fort McCoy
$23,400,000
2603.
Authorized
Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition
projects
Using amounts
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(3)
and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following
table:
Navy Reserve Marine Corps Reserve
State
Location
Amount
California
March Air Force Base
$11,086,000
Missouri
Kansas City
$15,020,000
Tennessee
Memphis
$4,330,000
2604.
Authorized
Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2606(4) and available for the
National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction
projects for the Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in
the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air National Guard
State
Installation
Amount
Alabama
Birmingham IAP
$8,500,000
Indiana
Hulman Regional Airport
$7,300,000
Maryland
Fort Meade
$4,000,000
Martin State
Airport
$12,900,000
Montana
Great Falls IAP
$22,000,000
New York
Fort Drum
$4,700,000
Ohio
Springfield Beckley-Map
$7,200,000
Pennsylvania
Fort Indiantown Gap
$7,700,000
Rhode Island
Quonset State Airport
$6,000,000
Tennessee
Mcghee-Tyson Airport
$18,000,000
2605.
Authorized
Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section 2606(5) and available for the
National Guard and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction
projects for the Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, and in
the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force Reserve
State
Location
Amount
California
March Air Force Base
$19,900,000
Florida
Homestead Air Force Base
$9,800,000
Oklahoma
Tinker Air Force Base
$12,200,000
2606.
Authorization
of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2013, for the costs
of acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and construction of
facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor,
under
chapter 1803
of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of
acquisition of land for those facilities), in the following amounts:
(1)
For the
Department of the Army, for the Army National Guard of the United States,
$320,815,000.
(2)
For the
Department of the Army, for the Army Reserve, $174,060,000.
(3)
For the
Department of the Navy, for the Navy and Marine Corps Reserve,
$32,976,000.
(4)
For the
Department of the Air Force, for the Air National Guard of the United States,
$119,800,000.
(5)
For the
Department of the Air Force, for the Air Force Reserve, $45,659,000.
B
Other
matters
2611.
Modification
of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2013 project
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2603 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2135), for Fort
Des Moines, Iowa, for construction of a Joint Reserve Center at that location,
the Secretary of the Navy may, instead of constructing a new facility at Camp
Dodge, acquire up to approximately 20 acres to construct a Joint Reserve Center
and associated supporting facilities in the greater Des Moines, Iowa ,area
using appropriations available for the project.
2612.
Extension of
authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set
forth in the table in section 2604 of such Act (124 Stat. 4454) for Nashville
International Airport, Tennessee, shall remain in effect until October 1, 2014,
or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military
construction for fiscal year 2015, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
State
Installation
or
Location
Project
Amount
Tennessee
Nashville
International Airport
Intelligence Group and Remotely
Piloted Aircraft Remote Split Operations Group
$5,500,000
2613.
Extension of
authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 project
(a)
Extension
Notwithstanding
section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2011 (division B of
Public Law 111–383
; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set
forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2601 of that Act
(124 Stat. 4452), for Camp Santiago, Puerto Rico, shall remain in effect until
October 1, 2014, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for
military construction for fiscal year 2015, whichever is later.
(b)
Table
The
table referred to in subsection (a) is a follows:
State
Location
Project
Amount
Puerto Rico
Camp
Santiago
Multi Purpose Machine Gun Range
$9,200,000
XXVII
Base
realignment and closure activities
2701.
Authorization
of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded through
Department of Defense Base Closure Account
Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2013, for base
realignment and closure activities, including real property acquisition and
military construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of
Public Law 101–510
; 10 U.S.C.
2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure Account
1990 established by section 2906 of such Act, in the total amount of
$451,357,000, as follows:
(1)
For the
Department of the Army, $180,401,000.
(2)
For the
Department of the Navy, $144,580,000.
(3)
For the
Department of the Air Force, $126,376,000.
2702.
Precondition
for any future base realignment and closure round
No future Base Realignment and Closure round
for military installations within the United Sates, its commonwealths,
territories, and possessions for realignment or closure shall be authorized
until, at the very earliest, the Department of Defense has completed and
submitted to Congress a formal review of the overseas military facility
structure, which incorporates overseas basing consolidations, an assessment of
the need for bases to support overseas contingency operations, and the
Department of Defense's Strategic Choices and Management Review.
2703.
Report on
2005 base closure and realignment joint basing initiative
(a)
In
general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and
Environment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on
the 2005 base closure and realignment joint basing initiative.
(b)
Elements
The
report required under subsection (a) shall include the following
elements:
(1)
An analysis and
explanation of the costs necessary to implement the joint basing
initiative.
(2)
An analysis and
explanation of any savings achieved to date and planned in future years,
including quantifiable goals and a timeline for meeting such goals.
(3)
A description of
implementation challenges and other lessons learned.
(4)
An assessment of
any additional savings that could be achieved through more rigorous management
and streamlined administration of joint bases.
(5)
Any other matters
the Under Secretary considers appropriate.
XXVIII
Military
Construction General Provisions
A
Military
Construction Program and Military Family Housing Changes
2801.
Modification
of authorities to fund military construction through payments-in-kind and to
use residual value payments-in-kind
(a)
Authorization
requirement for military construction projects funded through payment-in-kind
contributions
Section 2802
of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
(1)
The requirement under
subsection (a) for military construction projects to be authorized by law
includes military construction projects funded through payment-in-kind
contributions pursuant to bilateral agreements with host countries, other than
particular military construction projects specified in bilateral agreements
entered into before the date of the enactment of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, and military construction projects
accepted as payment-in-kind contributions for the residual value of
improvements made by the United States at military installations released to
the host country under section 2921 of the Military Construction Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (division B of
Public Law 101–501
; 10 U.S.C. 2687
note) .
(2)
The Secretary of Defense or the
Secretary concerned shall include military construction projects covered under
paragraph (1) in the budget justification documents for the Department of
Defense submitted to Congress in connection with the budget submitted under
1105 of title
31.
.
(b)
Restriction on
use of payments-in-kind received as residual value
payments
Section 2921(g) of the Military Construction
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (division B of
Public Law 101–501
; 10
U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended to read as follows:
(g)
Use of
payments-in-kind
(1)
A military construction
project or facility improvement may be accepted as a payment-in-kind under this
section only if such military construction project or facility improvement has
been authorized by Congress.
(2)
Operating costs of United States
forces may be funded through a payment-in-kind under this section only if the
costs covered by such payment are included in the budget justification
documents for the Department of Defense submitted to Congress in connection
with the budget submitted under 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
(3)
If funds were previously appropriated
for a military construction project, facility improvement, or operating costs
subsequently paid for with payments-in-kind, the Secretary of Defense shall
return to the Treasury funds in the amount equal to the value of the
appropriated
funds.
.
2802.
Extension and
modification of temporary, limited authority to use operation and maintenance
funds for construction projects in certain areas outside the United
States
Section 2808 of the
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of
Public Law 108–136
; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by section 2804
of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B
of
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2149), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection
(a), by striking
The Secretary
and all that follows through
conditions:
and inserting
The Secretary of Defense may
obligate appropriated funds available for operation and maintenance to carry
out, inside the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command or
certain countries in the area of responsibility of United States Africa
Command, a construction project that the Secretary determines meets each of the
following conditions:
;
(2)
in subsection
(c)(1), by striking
shall not exceed
and all that follows
through the period at the end and inserting
shall not exceed
$100,000,000 between October 1, 2013, and December 31, 2014
;
(3)
in subsection
(h)—
(A)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
September 30, 2013
and inserting
December 31,
2014
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2),
by striking
fiscal year 2014
and inserting
fiscal year
2015
; and
(4)
by amending
subsection (i) to read as follows:
(i)
Certain
countries in the area of responsibility of United States Africa Command
defined
In this section, the term
certain countries in the
area of responsibility of United States Africa Command
means Kenya,
Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Seychelles, Burundi, and
Uganda.
.
B
Real Property and
Facilities Administration
2811.
Authority for
acceptance of funds to cover administrative expenses associated with real
property leases and easements
(a)
Authority
Subsection
(e)(1)(C) of
section 2667
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following new clause:
(vi)
Expenses incurred by the Secretary under
this section and for easements under section 2668 of this
title.
.
(b)
Program
expenses defined
Subsection (i) of such section is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The term
program expenses
includes expenses related to developing,
assessing, negotiating, executing, and managing lease and easement
transactions, but does not include Government personnel
costs.
.
2812.
Application
of cash payments received for utilities and services
Section 2872a(c)(2)
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(2)
;
(2)
by striking
under paragraph (1) shall be
and all that follows through
was paid.
and inserting the following: “under paragraph (1) as
reimbursement for the cost of furnishing utilities or services shall—
(i)
in the case of a cost paid using funds
appropriated or otherwise made available before October 1, 2014, be credited to
the appropriation or working capital account from which the cost of furnishing
utilities or services concerned was paid; or
(ii)
in the case of a cost paid using
funds appropriated or otherwise made available on or after October 1, 2014, be
credited to the appropriation or working capital account currently available
for the purpose of furnishing utilities or services under subsection
(a).
;
and
(3)
by striking
Amount so credited
and inserting the following:
(B)
Amounts so
credited
.
2813.
Modification
of authority to enter into long-term contracts for receipt of utility services
as consideration for utility systems conveyances
Section 2688(d)(2)
of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end the
following:
as determined by a business case analysis that includes an
independent estimate of the level of investment that should be required to
maintain adequate operation of the utility system over the term of the
conveyance
.
2814.
Acquisition
of real property at Naval Base Ventura County, California
(a)
Authority
The
Secretary of the Navy may acquire all right, title, and interest to property
and improvements at Naval Base Ventura County, California, constructed pursuant
to the former
section 2828(g)
of title 10, United States Code, as added by
section 801 of the Military Construction Act, 1984 (
Public Law 98–115
; 97 Stat.
782).
(b)
Use
Upon
acquiring the real property under subsection (a), the Secretary may use the
improvements as provided in sections
2835
and
2835a
of title 10, United States
Code.
C
Provisions
Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment
2821.
Realignment
of Marines Corps forces in Asia-Pacific Region
(a)
Restriction on
use of funds
Except as provided in subsection (c), none of the
funds authorized to be appropriated under this Act, and none of the amounts
provided by the Government of Japan for construction activities on land under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, may be obligated to implement
the realignment of Marine Corps forces from Okinawa to Guam or Hawaii until
each of the following occurs:
(1)
The Commander of
the United States Pacific Command provides to the congressional defense
committees an assessment of the strategic and logistical resources needed to
ensure the distributed lay-down of members of the Marine Corps in the United
States Pacific Command Area of Responsibility meets the contingency operations
plans.
(2)
The Secretary of
Defense submits to the congressional defense committees master plans for the
construction of facilities and infrastructure to execute the Marine Corps
distributed lay-down on Guam and Hawaii, including a detailed description of
costs and the schedule for such construction.
(3)
The Secretary of
the Navy submits a plan to the congressional defense committees detailing the
proposed investments and schedules required to restore facilities and
infrastructure at Marine Corps Air Station Futenma.
(4)
A plan
coordinated by all pertinent Federal agencies is provided to the congressional
defense committees detailing descriptions of work, costs, and a schedule for
completion of construction, improvements, and repairs to the non-military
utilities, facilities, and infrastructure, if any, on Guam affected by the
realignment of forces.
(b)
Restriction on
development of public infrastructure
If the Secretary of Defense
determines that any grant, cooperative agreement, transfer of funds to another
Federal agency, or supplement of funds available in fiscal year 2014 under
Federal programs administered by agencies other than the Department of Defense
will result in the development (including repair, replacement, renovation,
conversion, improvement, expansion, acquisition, or construction) of public
infrastructure on Guam, the Secretary of Defense may not carry out such grant,
transfer, cooperative agreement, or supplemental funding unless such grant,
transfer, cooperative agreement, or supplemental funding is specifically
authorized by law.
(c)
Exceptions to
restriction on use of funds
The Secretary of Defense may use
funds described in subsection (a)—
(1)
to complete
additional analysis or studies required under the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
) for proposed actions on Guam or
Hawaii;
(2)
to initiate
planning and design of construction projects at Andersen Air Force Base and
Andersen South; and
(3)
to carry out any
military construction project for which an authorization of appropriations is
provided in section 2204, as specified in the funding table in section
4601.
(d)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
Distributed
lay-down
The term
distributed lay-down
refers to the
planned distribution of members of the Marine Corps in Okinawa, Guam, Hawaii,
Australia, and possibly elsewhere that is contemplated in support of the joint
statement of the United States–Japan Security Consultative Committee issued
April 26, 2012, in the District of Columbia (April 27, 2012, in Tokyo).
(2)
Public
infrastructure
The term
public infrastructure
means
any utility, method of transportation, item of equipment, or facility under the
control of a public entity or State or local government that is used by, or
constructed for the benefit of, the general public.
2822.
Modification
of reporting requirements relating to Guam realignment
Section 2835(e)(1) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law
111–84; 123 Stat. 2675;
10 U.S.C. 2687
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
calendar year
and inserting
fiscal year
;
(2)
by striking
such year
and
inserting
such fiscal year
; and
(3)
by striking
the year
and inserting
the fiscal year
.
D
Land
Conveyances
2831.
Land
conveyance Joint Base Pearl Harbor Hickam, Hawaii
(a)
Conveyances
authorized
The Secretary of the Navy may convey to the Hale Keiki
School all right, title, and interest of the United States, or any portion
thereof, in and to certain real property, including any improvements thereon,
consisting of approximately 11 acres located at or in the nearby vicinity of
153 Bougainville Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii (City and County of Honolulu Tax Map
Key No. 9–9–02:37), which is part of the Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, before
such real property, or any portion thereof, is made available for transfer
pursuant to the Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act (title II of Public Law
104–42; 109 Stat. 357), for use by any other Federal agency, or for disposal
under applicable laws.
(b)
Consideration
As
consideration for a conveyance under subsection (a), the Hale Keiki School
shall provide the United States, whether by cash payment, in-kind consideration
described in
section 2667(c)
of title 10, United States Code, or a combination
thereof, an amount that is not less than the fair market value of the conveyed
property, as determined pursuant to an appraisal acceptable to the
Secretary.
(c)
Exercise of
right to purchase property
(1)
Acceptance of
offer
For a period of 180 days beginning on the date the
Secretary makes a written offer to convey the property or any portion thereof
under subsection (a), the Hale Keiki School shall have the exclusive right to
accept such offer by providing written notice of acceptance to the Secretary
within the specified 180-day time period. If the Secretary’s offer is not so
accepted within the 180-day period, the offer shall expire.
(2)
Conveyance
deadline
If the Hale Keiki School accepts the offer to convey the
property or a portion thereof in accordance with paragraph (1), the conveyance
shall take place not later than 2 years after the date of the Hale Keiki
School's written acceptance, provided that the conveyance date may be extended
for a reasonable period of time by mutual agreement of the parties, evidenced
by a new lease or license executed by the parties prior to the end of the
2-year period.
(d)
Payment of
costs of conveyances
(1)
Payment
required
The Secretary shall require the Hale Keiki School to
cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for
costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out a conveyance under subsection
(a), including survey costs, related to the conveyance. If amounts are
collected from the Hale Keiki School in advance of the Secretary incurring the
actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by
the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the
excess amount to the Hale Keiki School. The Secretary may collect the costs
from the Hale Keiki School in advance of incurring any costs and may pay the
administrative costs of processing the conveyance as they are incurred or at
any time thereafter.
(2)
Assumption of
risk of paying costs of conveyance
In the event that the
conveyance is not completed by the deadline set forth in subsection (c)(2), the
amounts collected from the Hale Keiki School will not be refunded or reimbursed
and the Hale Keiki School shall be considered to have assumed the risk of
paying all costs of processing the conveyance after the offer has been accepted
by the Hale Keiki School, regardless of whether or not the conveyance is ever
actually completed.
(3)
Treatment of
amounts received
Amounts received under paragraph (1) as
reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary to carry out a conveyance
under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to
cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance.
Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and
shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions
and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(e)
Description of
property
The exact acreage and legal description of any real
property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey
satisfactory to the Secretary.
(f)
Additional term
and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms
and conditions in connection with a conveyance under subsection (a) as the
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United
States.
2832.
Mt. Soledad
Veterans Memorial transfer
(a)
Authority to
convey mt. soledad veterans memorial, san diego,
california
Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense
may convey to an eligible entity as provided in this section all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to the Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial
(in this section referred to as the
Memorial
).
(b)
Limitations
(1)
Price
The
Secretary shall select by public bid the eligible entity to which the Memorial
is to be conveyed under subsection (a). The Secretary shall use good faith
efforts to ensure the greatest possible return on such conveyance considering
the conditions required under paragraph (2).
(2)
Conditions on
conveyance
The conveyance of the Memorial under subsection (a)
shall be subject to the following conditions:
(A)
That the eligible
entity to which the Memorial is conveyed accepts the Memorial in its condition
at the time of the conveyance, commonly known as conveyance
as
is
, and agrees to indemnify and hold the United States harmless from
any liability resulting from the period of ownership of the Memorial by the
United States.
(B)
That the Memorial
shall be maintained and used as a veterans memorial in perpetuity.
(C)
That if the
Secretary determines at any time that the Memorial is not being used as a
veterans memorial, all right, title, and interest in and to the Memorial,
including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary,
revert to, and become the property of the United States, and the United States
shall have the right of immediate entry unto the Memorial, without any right of
compensation to the owner or any other person.
(3)
Land
exchange
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if no eligible entity
makes an acceptable bid for the Memorial or the Secretary determines, in the
Secretary’s sole discretion, that a land exchange would be more beneficial to
the United States, the Secretary may convey the Memorial to an eligible entity
in exchange for real property of at least equal value if the real property
offered in exchange is located adjacent to other real property of the United
States and the Federal agency exercising administrative jurisdiction over that
other real property agrees to accept administrative jurisdiction over the real
property offered in exchange.
(c)
Treatment of
amounts received
(1)
Reimbursement
of costs of conveyance
The Secretary shall use any funds received
from the conveyance under subsection (a) to reimburse the Secretary for costs
incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, including survey costs,
costs for environmental documentation, and any other administrative costs
related to the conveyance. Amounts to reimburse those costs from funds so
received shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover those
costs. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account
and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same
conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(2)
Deposit of
balance
The remainder of such funds, if any, shall be deposited
into the account used to pay for the acquisition of the Memorial by the United
States.
(d)
Description of
property
The exact acreage and legal description of the property
to be conveyed under subsection (a), and, in the case of a land exchange under
subsection (b)(3), the real property offered in exchange, shall be determined
by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(e)
Additional
terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United
States.
(f)
Exemption from
historic preservation requirements
Sections 106 and 110 of the
National Historic Preservation Act (
16 U.S.C. 470f
, 470h–2) shall not apply to
a conveyance under subsection (a).
(g)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
Eligible
entity
The term
eligible entity
means a
non-governmental entity that has a history of involvement in veterans affairs
and has demonstrated to the Secretary, in the Secretary’s sole discretion, that
the entity has the capability to operate and maintain the Memorial in
accordance with this section.
(2)
Mt. soledad
veterans memorial
The term
Mt. Soledad Veterans
Memorial
means the memorial in San Diego, California, acquired by the
United States pursuant to the Act of August 14, 2006, entitled
An Act to
preserve the Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial in San Diego, California, by
providing for the immediate acquisition of the memorial by the United
States
(
Public Law 109–272
; 120 Stat. 770).
E
Other
matters
2841.
Redesignation of
the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies as the Daniel K. Inouye
Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies
(a)
Redesignation
The
Department of Defense regional center for security studies known as the
Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies is hereby renamed the
Daniel K.
Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies
.
(b)
Conforming
amendments
(1)
Reference to
regional centers for security studies
Subparagraph (B) of section
184(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
(B)
The Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific
Center for Security
Studies.
.
(2)
Acceptance of
gifts and donations
Subparagraph (B) of section 2611(a)(2) of
such title is amended to read as follows:
(B)
The Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center
for Security
Studies.
.
(c)
References
Any
reference to the Department of Defense Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies
in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United
States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific
Center for Security Studies.
C
Department of
Energy national security authorizations and other authorizations
XXXI
Department of
Energy national security programs
A
National Security
Programs Authorizations
3101.
National
Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated
to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2014 for the activities of the
National Nuclear Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified
in the funding table in section 4701.
(b)
Authorization
of new plant projects
From funds referred to in subsection (a)
that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may
carry out new plant projects for the National Nuclear Security Administration
as follows:
Project 14–D–701, Device Assembly Facility, Argus
Installation Project, Nevada National Security Site, Nevada,
$14,000,000.
Project 14–D–901, Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization
Project, Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho, $45,400,000.
Project 14–D–902, Material Characterization
Laboratory, Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York,
$1,000,000.
3102.
Defense
environmental cleanup
Funds
are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal
year 2014 for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs
as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
3103.
Other defense
activities
Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2014
for other defense activities in carrying out programs as specified in the
funding table in section 4701.
B
Program
Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
3111.
Establishment
of Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation in National Nuclear
Security Administration
(a)
In
general
Subtitle A of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
3221.
Director for
Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation
(a)
Establishment
There
is in the Administration a Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation
(in this section referred to as the
Director
), who is appointed
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(b)
Duties
(1)
The Director shall be
the principal officer of the Administration responsible for communicating
directly with the Administrator, the Deputy Secretary of Energy, and the
Secretary of Energy with respect to cost estimation and program evaluation for
the Administration.
(2)
The Administrator may not delegate
responsibility for receiving or acting on communications from the Director with
respect to cost estimation and program evaluation for the
Administration.
(c)
Deputy
Directors
There shall be two deputy directors, who shall report
directly to the Director, as follows:
(1)
The Deputy
Director for Cost Estimation.
(2)
The Deputy
Director for Program Evaluation.
(d)
Activities for
cost estimation
(1)
The Director shall be
the responsible for the following activities relating to cost
estimation:
(A)
Prescribing policies and procedures
for cost analysis and estimation by the Administration, including the
determination of confidence levels with respect to cost estimates.
(B)
Reviewing cost estimates and
evaluating the performance baseline for each major atomic energy defense
acquisition program.
(C)
Establishing policies and procedures
for developing technology readiness assessments for such programs that are
consistent with the guidelines of the Department of Energy for technology
readiness assessments.
(D)
Reviewing technology readiness
assessments for such programs to ensure that such programs are meeting levels
of confidence associated with appropriate overall system performance.
(E)
Reviewing costs and, if necessary,
conducting independent cost estimates of projects covered by Department of
Energy Order 413.3 (relating to program and project management for the
acquisition of capital assets) (or a successor order) for the acquisition of
capital assets for atomic energy defense activities.
(2)
A review, evaluation, or cost
estimate conducted under subparagraph (B), (D), or (E) of paragraph (1) is an
inherently governmental function and may not be conducted by a national
security laboratory or a contractor of the Administration. The Director may use
data collected by such a laboratory or contractor in conducting such a review,
evaluation, or cost estimate.
(3)
The Director shall submit in writing
to the Administrator the following:
(A)
The certification of the Director with
respect to each review, evaluation, and cost estimate conducted under
subparagraph (B), (D), or (E) of paragraph (1).
(B)
A statement of the confidence level of
the Director with respect to each such review, evaluation, and cost estimate,
including an identification of areas of uncertainty in each such review,
evaluation, and cost estimate.
(4)
The Administrator shall transmit each
review, evaluation, and cost estimate conducted under subparagraph (B), (D), or
(E) of paragraph (1) to the congressional defense committees with any
additional comments of the Administrator supporting or disputing the review,
evaluation, or cost estimate.
(e)
Activities for
program evaluation
(1)
The Director shall be
responsible for the following activities relating to program evaluation:
(A)
Reviewing and commenting on policies
and procedures for setting requirements for the future-years nuclear security
program under section 3253 and for prioritizing and estimating the funding
required by the Administration for that program.
(B)
Reviewing the future-years nuclear
security program on an annual basis to ensure that the program is accurate and
thorough.
(C)
Prescribing policies and procedures
for initiating analyses of alternatives for major atomic energy defense
acquisition programs.
(D)
As part of the planning, programming,
and budgeting process of the Administration under sections 3251 and 3252,
analyzing the planning phase of that process, preparing programmatic and fiscal
year guidance, and managing the program review phase of that process.
(E)
Developing and managing the submittal
of the Selected Acquisition Reports and independent cost estimates on nuclear
weapons systems undergoing major life extension under section 4217 of the
Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2537
).
(F)
Reviewing cost and schedule baselines
for projects under section 4713 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2753) and managing notifications to the congressional defense committees of
cost overruns under that section.
(2)
A review conducted under paragraph
(1)(B) is an inherently governmental function and may not be conducted by a
national security laboratory or a contractor of the Administration. The
Director may use data collected by such a laboratory or contractor in
conducting such a review.
(3)
The Director shall submit to Congress
a report on any major programmatic deviations from the future-years nuclear
security program discovered in conducting a review under paragraph (1)(B) at or
about the time the budget of the President is submitted to Congress under
section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, for the next fiscal
year.
(f)
Staff
The
Administrator shall ensure that the Director has sufficient numbers of
personnel who have competence in technical and budgetary matters to carry out
the functions required by this section.
(g)
Reports by
Director
The Director shall submit to Congress at or about the
time that the budget of the President is submitted to Congress pursuant to
section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2015
through 2018, a report that includes the following:
(1)
A description of
activities related to developing accurate and timely budget formulation
conducted by the Director during the calendar year preceding the submission of
the report.
(2)
An assessment of
efforts to develop accurate cost estimates and analyses, including of
technology readiness assessments.
(3)
An assessment of
deficiencies in developing an integrated list of requirements for programs and
projects of the Administration using available resources.
(4)
A list of all
major atomic energy defense acquisition programs and projects covered by
Department of Energy Order 413.3 (or a successor order) for the acquisition of
capital assets for atomic energy defense activities and a concise description
of the status of each such program and project in meeting cost and critical
milestones.
(h)
Briefing by
Comptroller General of the United States
Not later than 90 days
after the Director submits a report to Congress under subsection (g), the
Comptroller General of the United States shall brief Congress on the
following:
(1)
The assessment of
the Comptroller General with respect to the report submitted under subsection
(g).
(2)
Recommendations
for improving the ability of the Director to perform the functions required by
this section, including recommendations with respect to the availability of
personnel and resources to carry out those functions.
(i)
Definitions
In
this section:
(1)
Major atomic
energy defense acquisition program
(A)
In
general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term
major atomic energy defense acquisition program
means an atomic
energy defense acquisition program of the Administration—
(i)
the total project
cost of which is more than $50,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2012 constant
dollars); or
(ii)
the total
lifetime cost of which is more than $350,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2012
constant dollars).
(B)
Exclusion of
capital assets acquisition projects
The term
major atomic
energy defense acquisition program
does not include a project covered by
Department of Energy Order 413.3 (or a successor order) for the acquisition of
capital assets for atomic energy defense activities.
(2)
Performance
baseline
The term
performance baseline
, with respect
to a major atomic energy defense acquisition program, means the key parameters
with respect to performance, scope, cost, and schedule for the project budget
of the
program.
.
(b)
Implementation
plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a plan for the implementation of section 3221
of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added by subsection
(a), that includes the following:
(1)
An identification
of the number of personnel required to support the Director for Cost Estimating
and Program Evaluation, the Deputy Director for Cost Estimating, and the Deputy
Director for Program Evaluation established under such section 3221.
(2)
A description of
the functions of such personnel.
(3)
A plan for
training such personnel through entities of the Department of Defense that
conduct activities similar to the activities described in such section 3221 on
the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(4)
An estimate of
the time required to hire and train such personnel.
(5)
A plan for
developing cost estimation and program evaluation activities jointly with the
Department of Defense to the extent practicable and beneficial to both the
National Nuclear Security Administration and the Department of Defense.
(c)
Conforming
amendment
Section 5315
of title 5, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following new item:
Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation,
National Nuclear Security
Administration.
.
(d)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section
3220 the following new item:
Sec. 3221. Director for Cost
Estimating and Program
Evaluation.
.
3112.
Plan for
improvement and integration of financial management of nuclear security
enterprise
(a)
In
general
Subtitle A of title
XLVII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.
) is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
4714.
Plan for
improvement and integration of financial management of nuclear security
enterprise
(a)
Plan
required
(1)
The Administrator shall
develop a plan for improving and integrating the financial management of the
nuclear security enterprise.
(2)
The plan required by paragraph (1)
shall include the following:
(A)
A structure for the allocation of work
to be used by the entities within the nuclear security enterprise for the
activities carried out by those entities, including activities for which funds
are transferred from the Department of Defense to the Administration.
(B)
A clear and easily understandable cost
structure for each entity within the nuclear security enterprise.
(C)
A methodology for identifying costs
for programs of record and base capabilities required for programs carried out
by the nuclear security enterprise.
(D)
A system for monitoring those programs
during the execution of those programs and to provide data to inform oversight
of those programs.
(E)
A reporting system to be used by the
entities within the nuclear security enterprise to facilitate analyses,
projections, and comparisons of similar activities carried out by different
entities within the nuclear security enterprise.
(F)
A plan for providing sufficient
resources to implement the plan required by paragraph (1).
(3)
The Administrator shall submit the
plan required by paragraph (1) to the congressional defense committees not
later than February 15, 2014.
(4)
The Administrator shall implement the
plan required by paragraph (1) by not later than the date that is 4 years after
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2014.
(b)
Review by
Comptroller General of the United States
(1)
Not later than the date
that is 4 years and 6 months after the date of the enactment of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall review the implementation of the plan required by
subsection (a) and submit to the congressional defense committees a report on
the results of the review.
(2)
For the first fiscal year that begins
after the submission of the report required by paragraph (1) and each of the 3
fiscal years thereafter, the Comptroller General shall—
(A)
review the implementation of the plan
required by subsection (a), with particular attention to elements of the plan
that are not fully implemented; and
(B)
not later than 180 days after the end
of the fiscal year, submit to the congressional defense committees a report on
the results of the
review.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4713 the following
new item:
Sec. 4714. Plan for improvement
and integration of financial management of nuclear security
enterprise.
.
3113.
Certification
of security measures at atomic energy defense facilities
(a)
In
general
Subtitle A of title XLV of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
4510.
Certification
of security measures at atomic energy defense facilities
(a)
In
general
Not later than January 1, 2014, and every 2 years
thereafter, the Secretary of Energy shall—
(1)
review the
security measures of each facility specified in subsection (b) that contains
Category I or Category II special nuclear material; and
(2)
submit to the
congressional defense committees a certification with respect to whether such
measures—
(A)
provide for the
effective protection of Category I and Category II special nuclear material;
and
(B)
meet the
standards and regulations of the Department of Energy for the physical
protection of facilities and surrounding infrastructure containing such
material.
(b)
Facilities
specified
The facilities specified in this subsection are the
following:
(1)
The national
security laboratories.
(2)
The nuclear
weapons production facilities.
(3)
The defense
nuclear facilities at which defense environmental cleanup activities are
occurring.
(c)
Plan for
laboratories and facilities that do not meet standards
(1)
If the Secretary
determines under subsection (a)(2) that the security measures of a facility
specified in subsection (b) do not provide for the effective protection of
Category I and Category II special nuclear material or do not meet the
standards and regulations described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall
develop and implement a plan for ensuring that such measures are improved to
provide for effective protection of such material and to meet such standards
and regulations in an expeditious manner.
(2)
The Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees with the certification required by subsection
(a)(2) the following:
(A)
Each plan developed under paragraph
(1) with respect to a facility specified in subsection (b).
(B)
An estimate of the time required to
ensure that the security measures of that facility provide for effective
protection of Category I and Category II special nuclear material and meet the
standards and regulations described in subsection (a)(2).
(C)
An assessment of whether it is in the
national security interests of the United States to keep that facility in
routine operations and, if so, a description of the temporary mitigating
measures to be taken to maintain routine operations at the facility.
(3)
Not later than 30 days after the
submission of the certification under subsection (a)(2), the Inspector General
of the Department of Energy shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of each plan
developed under paragraph (1).
(d)
Form of
reports
Each certification required by subsection (a)(2) and each
plan and report required by subsection (c) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified
annex.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 4509 the following new
item:
Sec. 4510. Certification of
security measures at atomic energy defense
facilities.
.
3114.
Plan for
incorporating exascale computing into the stockpile stewardship
program
(a)
In
general
Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
4219.
Plan for
incorporating exascale computing into the stockpile stewardship
program
(a)
Plan
required
The Administrator shall develop and carry out a plan to
incorporate exascale computing into the stockpile stewardship program under
section 4201 during the 20-year period beginning on the date of the enactment
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014.
(b)
Milestones
The
plan required by subsection (a) shall include major programmatic milestones in
the development of a prototype exascale computer for the stockpile stewardship
program.
(c)
Coordination
with other agencies
In developing the plan required by subsection
(a), the Administrator shall coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under
Secretary of Energy for Science, the Secretary of Defense, and elements of the
intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act
of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 401a(4)
)).
(d)
Inclusion of
costs in future-years nuclear security program
The Administrator
shall address the costs of incorporating exascale computing into the stockpile
stewardship program in the estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations
reflected in the future-years nuclear security program submitted under section
3253 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C.
2453).
(e)
Submission to
Congress; report
(1)
The Administrator shall
submit to the congressional defense committees, at or about the same time the
budget of the President is submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title
31, United States Code, in each even-numbered year, the following:
(A)
The plan required by subsection
(a).
(B)
A report that describes advances
outside the United States in exascale computing for defense and nondefense
applications.
(2)
Each plan and report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a
classified annex if necessary.
(f)
Exascale
computing defined
In this section, the term
exascale
computing
means computing through the use of a computing machine that
performs near or above 10 to the 18th power floating point operations per
second.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 4218 the following new
item:
Sec. 4219. Plan for
incorporating exascale computing into the stockpile stewardship
program.
.
3115.
Integrated
plutonium strategy
(a)
In
general
Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.
), as amended by section 3114, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
4220.
Integrated
plutonium strategy
(a)
In
general
The Administration shall include in the plan required by
4203 a strategy for the integrated management of plutonium for stockpile and
stockpile stewardship needs over a 20-year period.
(b)
Elements
The
strategy required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of
the baseline science issues necessary to understand plutonium aging under
static and dynamic conditions under manufactured and nonmanufactured plutonium
geometries.
(2)
An assessment of
scientific and testing instrumentation for plutonium at elemental and bulk
conditions.
(3)
An assessment of
manufacturing and handling technology for plutonium and plutonium
components.
(4)
An assessment of
computational models of plutonium performance under static and dynamic loading,
including manufactured and nonmanufactured conditions.
(5)
An identification
of any capability gaps with respect to the assessments described in paragraphs
(1) through (4).
(6)
An estimate of
costs relating to the issues, instrumentation, technology, and models described
in paragraphs (1) through (4) over the period covered by the future-years
nuclear security program under section 3253 of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2453
).
(7)
An estimate of
the cost of eliminating the capability gaps identified under paragraph (5) over
the period covered by the future-years nuclear security program.
(8)
Such other items
as the Administrator considers important for the integrated management of
plutonium for stockpile and stockpile stewardship needs.
(c)
Review
(1)
The Administrator shall
enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to review the
strategy required by subsection (a).
(2)
The review required by paragraph (1)
shall be submitted not later than one year after the submission of the first
plan required under section 4203 that includes the strategy required by
subsection
(a).
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 4219, as added by section 3114,
the following new item:
Sec. 4220. Integrated plutonium
strategy.
.
3116.
Authorization
of modular building strategy as an alternative to the replacement project for
the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Building, Los Alamos National Laboratory,
New Mexico
Section 3114(c) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 2171;
50 U.S.C. 2535
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
No funds
and inserting the following:
(1)
Limitation on
use of funds
Except as provided in paragraph (2), no
funds
;
and
(2)
by adding at the
end the following new paragraphs:
(2)
Use of funds
for modular building strategy
The Administrator for Nuclear
Security may obligate and expend funds referred to in paragraph (1) for
activities relating to a modular building strategy on and after the date that
is 30 days after the date on which the Nuclear Weapons Council established
under
section 179
of title 10, United States Code, notifies the congressional
defense committees that—
(A)
the modular
building strategy meets requirements for maintaining the nuclear weapons
stockpile over a 30-year period;
(B)
in fiscal year
2015, the National Nuclear Security Administration will begin the process of
designing and building modular buildings in accordance with Department of
Energy Order 413.3 (relating to relating to program management and project
management for the acquisition of capital assets); and
(C)
the Administrator
will include the costs of the modular building strategy in the estimated
expenditures and proposed appropriations reflected in the future-years nuclear
security program submitted under section 3253 of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2453
).
(3)
Modular
building strategy defined
In this subsection, the term
modular building strategy
means an alternative strategy to the
replacement project that consists of constructing a series of modular
structures, each of which is fully useable, to complement the function of the
plutonium facility (PF-4) at Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, in
accordance with all applicable safety and security standards of the Department
of
Energy.
.
3117.
Increase in
construction design threshold
Section 4706(b) of the Atomic Energy Defense
Act (
50 U.S.C. 2746(b)
) is amended by striking
$600,000
both
places it appears and inserting
$1,200,000
.
3118.
Clarification
of form of submission of cost estimates on life extension programs and new
nuclear facilities
Section
4217(b) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2537(b)
) is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Each cost estimate submitted under
this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a
classified annex if
necessary.
.
C
Reports
3121.
Assessment of
nuclear nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security
Administration
(a)
In
general
The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall enter into
an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct an assessment
of existing and future nuclear nonproliferation programs of the National
Nuclear Security Administration.
(b)
Elements
The
assessment required by subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the
following:
(1)
The status of
nuclear nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security
Administration as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Whether those
programs are meeting the goals of those programs.
(3)
The extent of the
work remaining for those programs to meet those goals.
(4)
Nuclear
nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security Administration with
countries that have obtained nuclear weapons and are not parties to the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and
Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force March 5, 1970 (21 UST 483)
(commonly known as the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
).
(5)
Nuclear
nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security Administration with
countries that are non-nuclear weapon state parties to the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty and are acquiring nuclear materials in violation of
commitments under the Treaty.
(6)
Nuclear
nonproliferation programs to be carried out by the National Nuclear Security
Administration during the 10-period beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(c)
Report
required
Not later than January 31, 2015, the Administrator shall
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the results
of the assessment required by subsection (a).
3122.
Modification
of reviews relating to cost-benefit analyses of management and operating
contracts of the National Nuclear Security Administration
Section 3121(c) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2176) is
amended to read as follows:
(c)
Review by
Comptroller General of the United States
(1)
In
general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall,
except as provided in paragraph (2), review reports submitted to the
congressional defense committees under subsection (a) or (d)(2) at such times
as the Comptroller General, in consultation with such committees, determines
appropriate.
(2)
Exception
The
Comptroller General may not conduct a review under paragraph (1) of a report
relating to a contract to manage and operate a facility of the National Nuclear
Security Administration while a protest concerning an alleged violation of a
procurement statute or regulation brought under subchapter V of chapter 35 of
title 31, United States Code, is pending with respect to that
contract.
.
3123.
Modification
of deadline for certain reports relating to program on scientific engagement
for nonproliferation
Section
3122(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public
Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 2176;
50 U.S.C. 2562
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1),
by striking
15
and inserting
30
;
(2)
by redesignating
paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
(3)
by inserting
after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
(3)
Waiver
The
Administrator may waive the requirement under paragraph (1) to submit a report
on a modification in the program under subsection (a) not later than 30 days
before making the modification if the Administrator—
(A)
determines that
the modification is urgent and necessary to the national security interests of
the United States; and
(B)
not later than 30
days after making the modification, submits to the appropriate congressional
committees—
(i)
the report on the
modification required by paragraph (1); and
(ii)
a justification
for exercising the waiver authority under this
paragraph.
;
and
(4)
in paragraph (4),
as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking
The report under paragraph
(1)
and inserting
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) or
(3)(B)
.
3124.
Modification
of certain reports on cost containment for uranium capabilities replacement
project
Section 3123(f) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
Public Law 112–239
;
126 Stat. 2178) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection
heading, by striking
quarterly
;
(2)
by striking
paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraph (1):
(1)
In
general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a report on the project referred to in
subsection (a)—
(A)
not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90 days thereafter
through the date that is one year after such date of enactment; and
(B)
after the date
that is one year after such date of enactment, at such times as the Comptroller
General, in consultation with the congressional defense committees, determines
appropriate, taking into consideration the critical decision points of the
project (as defined in orders of the Department of
Energy).
;
and
(3)
in paragraph
(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph
(A), by striking
and the progress on meeting the requirements of section
4713 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2753
)
; and
(B)
in subparagraph
(D), by striking
programmatic
.
3125.
Submission of
interim report of Congressional Advisory Panel on the Governance of the Nuclear
Security Enterprise
Section
3166(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
(
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2209) is amended by striking
the date of
the enactment of this Act
and inserting
the first meeting of the
advisory panel under subsection (b)(5)
.
D
Technical
corrections
3131.
Technical
corrections to the National Nuclear Security Administration Act
(a)
Administrator
for Nuclear Security
Section
3212(c) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2402(c)
)
is amended by striking
section 16(3) of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy Act (
41 U.S.C. 414(3)
)
and inserting
section
1702(c) of title 41, United States Code
.
(b)
Status of
Administration and contractor personnel
Section 3220 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2410
) is amended in subsection (a)(1)(A) and subsection (b) by
inserting
(
42 U.S.C. 7132(c)(3)
)
after
section 202(c)(3)
of the Department of Energy Organization Act
.
(c)
Government
access to information and computers
Section 3235(b) of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2425(b)
) is amended by inserting
(
Public Law 99–508
; 100
Stat. 1848)
after
of 1986
.
(d)
Authority to
establish certain positions
Section 3241 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2441) is amended in the last sentence by—
(1)
by striking
excepted positions established
and inserting
positions
established
;
(2)
by striking
an excepted position
and inserting
a position
;
and
(3)
by striking
nonexcepted position
and inserting
position not
established under this section
.
(e)
Separate
treatment in budget
Section 3251(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2451(a)) is amended by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(f)
Future-years
nuclear security program
Section 3253(b) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2453(b)) is amended—
(1)
by striking
five-fiscal year
each place it appears and inserting
five-fiscal-year
;
(2)
by striking
paragraph (5) and by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
in subparagraph
(B) of paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking
National Nuclear Security
.
(g)
Compliance with
Federal Acquisition Regulation
Section 3262 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2462) is amended by striking
the Office of Federal Procurement
Policy Act (
41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.
)
and inserting
section
1303(a)(1) of title 41, United States Code
.
(h)
Use of
capabilities of national security laboratories
Section 3264 of
such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2464
) is amended by inserting
of Energy
after
Secretary
.
(i)
Definitions
Section
3281(2)(F) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2471(2)(F)
) is amended by striking
the
Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(j)
Functions
transferred
Section 3291(d)(1) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2481(d)(1)
)
is amended by moving the flush text after subparagraph (B) 2 ems to the
left.
3132.
Technical
corrections to the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(a)
Definitions
(1)
In
general
Section 4002 of the
Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2501
) is amended—
(A)
in the matter
preceding paragraph (1), by striking
In this division
and
inserting
Except as otherwise provided, in this division
;
(B)
by redesignating
paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8) as paragraphs (6), (7), (9), and (10),
respectively;
(C)
by inserting after
paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
The terms
defense nuclear facility
and
Department of Energy defense
nuclear facility
have the meaning given the term
Department of
Energy defense nuclear facility
in section 318 of the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286g
).
;
(D)
by inserting after
paragraph (7), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), the following new paragraph
(8):
(8)
The term
Nuclear Weapons Council
means the Nuclear Weapons Council
established by
section 179
of title 10, United States
Code.
;
and
(E)
in paragraph (10),
as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
restricted data
and inserting
Restricted Data
.
(2)
Conforming
amendments
(A)
Nuclear weapons
stockpile stewardship plan
Section 4203(e)(1) of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2523(e)(1)) is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by
striking
established by
section 179
of title 10, United States
Code,
.
(B)
Reports on life
extension programs
Section 4216(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2536(a)) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
established by
section 179
of title 10, United States
Code,
.
(C)
Selected
acquisition reports
Section 4217(b) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2537(b)) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
established under
section 179
of title 10, United States
Code,
.
(D)
Advice on
nuclear weapons stockpile
Section 4218 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2538) is amended—
(i)
in
subsection (e), by striking
Joint
; and
(ii)
in
subsection (f)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
established under
section 179
of title 10, United States
Code,
.
(E)
Reports on
permanent closures of defense nuclear facilities
Section 4422(a)
of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2602(a)
) is amended by striking
(as defined in
section 318 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C.
2286(g))
.
(F)
Prohibition on
international inspections
Section 4501(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2651(a)) is amended by striking
restricted data
and inserting
Restricted Data
.
(G)
Review of
certain documents before declassification and release
Section
4521 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2671
) is amended by striking
restricted
data
each place it appears and inserting
Restricted
Data
.
(H)
Protection
against inadvertent release of Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted
Data
Section 4522 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2672
) is amended by
striking subsection (g).
(I)
Definitions
Section
4701 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2741
) is amended—
(i)
by
striking paragraph (2); and
(ii)
by
redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
(J)
Prohibition and
report on bonuses to contractors
Section 4802 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2782) is amended—
(i)
by
striking subsection (b); and
(ii)
by
redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
(K)
Transfers of
real property
Section 4831(f) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2811(f)
) is
amended by striking
section:
and all that follows through
(2) The terms
and inserting
section, the
terms
.
(b)
Restriction on
certain licensing requirement
Section 4103 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2513) is amended by inserting
; 94 Stat. 3197
after
Public Law 96–540
.
(c)
Nuclear weapons
stockpile matters
(1)
Stockpile
stewardship program
Section 4201 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2521
) is
amended—
(A)
in subsection (a),
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
for Nuclear
Security
; and
(B)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
in
paragraph (4)(D), by striking
Nevada national security site
and
inserting
Nevada National Security Site
; and
(ii)
in
paragraph (5)—
(I)
by striking
subparagraphs (A) through (D) and inserting the following new subparagraph
(A):
(A)
the nuclear
weapons production facilities; and
;
and
(II)
by redesignating
subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (B).
(2)
Stockpile
management program
Section 4204(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2524(a)) is amended by striking
for Nuclear Security
.
(3)
Annual
assessments of nuclear weapons stockpile
Section 4205 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2525
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (c),
by striking
for Nuclear Security
; and
(B)
in subsection
(h)—
(i)
in
the subsection heading, by striking
Definitions
and inserting
Definition
;
(ii)
by
striking
section:
and all that follows through
(2) The
term
and inserting
section, the term
; and
(iii)
by
redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively,
and by moving such clauses, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the left.
(4)
Nuclear test ban
readiness program
Section 4207 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2527
) is
amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (a);
(B)
by redesignating
subsections (b), (c), and (d) as subsections (a), (b), and (c),
respectively;
(C)
in subsection
(a), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
Soviet
Union
and inserting
Russian Federation
;
(D)
in subsection (b),
as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
subsection (b)
and inserting
subsection (a)
; and
(E)
in subsection (c),
as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
(i)
by
striking
subsection (b)
and inserting
subsection
(a)
; and
(ii)
by
striking
national nuclear weapons laboratories
and inserting
national security laboratories
.
(5)
Requirements for
specific request for new or modified nuclear weapons
Section
4209(d) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2529(d)
) is amended by striking
the date
of the enactment of this Act
each place it appears and inserting
December 2, 2002
.
(6)
Manufacturing
infrastructure
Section 4212 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2532
) is
amended—
(A)
in subsection
(a)(2), by striking
Review
and inserting
Memorandum
; and
(B)
in subsection
(c), by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(7)
Reports on
critical difficulties
Section 4213 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2533
)
is amended—
(A)
in subsection
(a)—
(i)
in
the subsection heading, by striking
plants
and inserting
facilities
; and
(ii)
by
striking
plant
each place it appears and inserting
facility
; and
(B)
in subsection
(d)—
(i)
in
the subsection heading, by striking
certification
and inserting
assessment
; and
(ii)
by
striking
included with the decision documents
and all that
follows through
the President
and inserting
submitted to
the President and Congress with the matters required to be submitted under
section 4205(f)
.
(8)
Plan for
transformation of nuclear security enterprise
(A)
Repeal
Section
4214 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2534
) is repealed.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4214.
(9)
Replacement
project for Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Building
Section
4215(d)(2) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2535(d)(2)
) is amended by striking
National Nuclear Security
.
(10)
Advice on
nuclear weapons stockpile
Section 4218 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2538), as amended by subsection (a)(2)(D), is further amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (a);
(B)
by redesignating
subsections (b) through (g) as subsections (a) through (f), respectively;
and
(C)
in subsection
(d), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
(under section
3159 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law
104–201;
42 U.S.C. 7274o
))
and inserting
under section
4213
.
(11)
Tritium
production program
(A)
In
general
Subsection (b) of section 4233 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2543) is—
(i)
transferred to the
end of section 4231 (
50 U.S.C. 2541
); and
(ii)
redesignated as
subsection (c).
(B)
Conforming
repeal
Section 4233 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2543
) is
repealed.
(C)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4233.
(d)
Proliferation
matters
(1)
Nonproliferation
initiatives and activities
(A)
Repeal
Section
4302 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2562
) is repealed.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4302.
(2)
Nuclear Cities
Initiative
(A)
Repeal
Section
4304 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2564
) is repealed.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4304.
(e)
Defense
environmental cleanup
(1)
Defense
environmental cleanup account
Section 4401 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2581) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
restoration and waste management
and
inserting
cleanup
;
(B)
in subsection
(a), by striking
Restoration and Waste Management
and inserting
Cleanup
; and
(C)
in subsection
(b), by striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
.
(2)
Future use
plans for defense environmental cleanup
Section 4402 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2582
) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
environmental management program
and
inserting
defense
environmental cleanup
;
(B)
in subsection
(a), by striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
;
(C)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
by striking
paragraph (2); and
(ii)
by redesignating
paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively;
(D)
in subsection
(c)(2), by striking
for program direction in carrying out environmental
restoration and waste management
and inserting
for defense
environmental cleanup
;
(E)
by striking
subsection (f);
(F)
by redesignating
subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
(G)
in paragraph (2)
of subsection (g), as redesignated by subparagraph (F)—
(i)
by
striking
an environmental restoration or waste management
and
inserting
a defense environmental cleanup
; and
(ii)
by
striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and
inserting
defense environmental cleanup
.
(3)
Future-years
defense environmental cleanup plan
Section 4402A of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2582A) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
;
(B)
in subsection
(a)—
(i)
in
the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
management
and
inserting
cleanup
; and
(ii)
in
paragraph (1), by striking
environmental management
and
inserting
defense environmental cleanup
; and
(C)
in subsection
(b), by striking
management
both places it appears and inserting
cleanup
.
(4)
Integrated
fissile materials management plan
Section 4403 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2583) is amended—
(A)
in subsection
(a)(1)—
(i)
by striking
the Office of Fissile Materials Disposition, the Office of Nuclear
Energy, and the Office of Defense Programs
and inserting
the
Office of Nuclear Energy, and the Administration
; and
(ii)
by striking
storage
and inserting
storage,
; and
(B)
in subsection (b),
by striking
March 31, 2000
and inserting
March 31,
2014
.
(5)
Baseline
environmental management reports
Section 4404 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2584) is repealed.
(6)
Accelerated
schedule for defense environmental cleanup activities
Section
4405 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2585
) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
environmental restoration and waste
management
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
;
(B)
in subsection
(a), by striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
;
(C)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
by striking
paragraph (2); and
(ii)
by redesignating
paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4),
respectively;
(D)
by striking
subsection (c);
(E)
by redesignating
subsection (d) as subsection (c); and
(F)
in subsection
(c), as redesignated by subparagraph (E)—
(i)
by
striking
environmental restoration or waste management
and
inserting
defense environmental cleanup
; and
(ii)
by
striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and
inserting
defense environmental cleanup
.
(7)
Defense
environmental cleanup technology program
Section 4406 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2586
) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
waste
and inserting
environmental
;
(B)
by striking
subsections (b) and (c); and
(C)
by redesignating
subsection (d) as subsection (b).
(8)
Report on
defense environmental cleanup expenditures
Section 4407 of such
Act (
50 U.S.C. 2587
) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
environmental restoration
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
; and
(B)
by striking
environmental restoration and waste management funds for defense
activities
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
funds
.
(9)
Public
participation in planning for defense environmental
cleanup
Section 4408 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2588
) is
amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
environmental restoration and waste management at defense nuclear
facilities
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
;
(B)
by striking
Attorneys General
and inserting
attorneys
general
; and
(C)
by striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup activities
.
(10)
Projects to
accelerate closure activities
Section 4421 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2601) is repealed.
(11)
Reports in
connection with closures
Section 4422 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2602) is amended—
(A)
in subsection
(a), as amended by subsection (a)(2)(E)—
(i)
by
striking
must
and inserting
shall
; and
(ii)
by
striking
environmental remediation and cleanup
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
; and
(B)
in subsection
(b)(2), by striking
environmental restoration and other remediation and
cleanup efforts
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
activities
.
(12)
Defense
environmental management privatization projects
Subtitle C of
title XLIV of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2611
) is repealed.
(13)
Hanford waste
tank cleanup program
Section 4442(b)(2) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2622(b)(2)) is amended by striking
responsible for
and all that
follows through
aspects
and inserting
responsible for
managing all aspects
.
(14)
Funding for
termination costs of River Protection Project
Section 4444(2) of
such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2624(2)
) is amended by striking
environmental
restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense
environmental cleanup
.
(15)
Savannah River
Site
Subtitle E of title XLIV of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2631 et
seq.) is amended by striking sections 4453A, 4453B, 4453C, and 4453D.
(16)
Conforming
amendments
Title XLIV of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2581 et seq.
) is
amended—
(A)
in the title
heading, by striking
environmental restoration and waste
management
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
;
(B)
in the subtitle
heading for subtitle A, by striking
environmental restoration and waste
management
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
; and
(C)
by redesignating
subtitles D and E as subtitles C and D, respectively.
(17)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the items relating to title XLIV and inserting the following new
items:
Title XLIV—Defense environmental
cleanup matters
Subtitle A—Defense
environmental cleanup
Sec. 4401. Defense
Environmental Cleanup Account.
Sec. 4402. Requirement to
develop future use plans for defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 4402A. Future-years
defense environmental cleanup plan.
Sec. 4403. Integrated fissile
materials management plan.
Sec. 4405. Accelerated schedule
for defense environmental cleanup activities.
Sec. 4406. Defense
environmental cleanup technology program.
Sec. 4407. Report on defense
environmental cleanup expenditures.
Sec. 4408. Public participation
in planning for defense environmental cleanup.
Subtitle B—Closure of
facilities
Sec. 4422. Reports in
connection with permanent closures of Department of Energy defense nuclear
facilities.
Subtitle C—Hanford
Reservation, Washington
Sec. 4441. Safety measures for
waste tanks at Hanford nuclear reservation.
Sec. 4442. Hanford waste tank
cleanup program.
Sec. 4443. River Protection
Project.
Sec. 4444. Funding for
termination costs of River Protection Project, Richland,
Washington.
Subtitle D—Savannah River
Site, South Carolina
Sec. 4451. Accelerated schedule
for isolating high-level nuclear waste at the defense waste processing
facility, Savannah River Site.
Sec. 4452. Multi-year plan for
clean-up.
Sec. 4453. Continuation of
processing, treatment, and disposal of legacy nuclear materials.
Sec. 4454. Limitation on use of
funds for decommissioning F–canyon
facility.
.
(f)
Safeguards and
security matters
(1)
Restrictions on
access to national security laboratories
Section 4502 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2652
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e);
(B)
by redesignating
subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (b) and (c), respectively; and
(C)
in paragraph (2)
of subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
as
in effect on January 1, 1999
.
(2)
Counterintelligence
polygraph program
Section
4504 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2654
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (d); and
(B)
by redesignating
subsection (e) as subsection (d).
(3)
Notice to
Congress of certain security and counterintelligence
failures
Section 4505(e)(2) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2656(e)(2)
) is
amended by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(4)
Report on
counterintelligence and security practices
Section 4507(a) of
such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2658
) is amended by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(5)
Amounts for
declassification activities
Section 4525 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2675) is amended by striking subsection (c).
(6)
Responsibility
for Defense Programs Emergency Response Program
(A)
Repeal
Subtitle
C of title XLV of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2691
) is repealed.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the items relating to subtitle C of title XLV.
(g)
Personnel
matters
(1)
Appointment of
certain personnel
Section 4601(a) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2701(a)
)
is amended by striking paragraph (4).
(2)
Whistleblower
protection program
Section 4602 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2702
) is
amended—
(A)
in subsection
(
l
), by striking
Public Law 101–512
and
inserting
Public Law 101–12; 103 Stat. 16
; and
(B)
by striking
subsection (n).
(3)
Incentives for
employees at closure project facilities
(A)
Repeal
Section
4603 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2703
) is repealed.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4603.
(4)
Workforce
restructuring place
Section 4604 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2704
) is
amended—
(A)
in subsection
(c)(6)(A), by inserting
(
29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.
)
after
of
1998
; and
(B)
in subsection
(f)(1), by striking
the 236 H facility at Savannah River, South
Carolina; and the Mound Laboratory, Ohio
and inserting
and the
236 H facility at Savannah River, South Carolina
.
(5)
Certificates of
commendation
Section 4605(b) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2705(b)
) is
amended by striking
Cold War
and inserting
cold
war
.
(6)
Executive
management training
Section 4621(b)(6) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2721(b)(6)) is amended by striking
environmental restoration and defense
waste management
and inserting
defense environmental
cleanup
.
(7)
Stockpile
stewardship recruitment and training program
Section 4622 of such
Act (
50 U.S.C. 2722
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a),
by striking
Sandia
and all that follows through
Los
Alamos National Laboratory
and inserting
national security
laboratories
; and
(B)
in subsections (b)
and (c), by striking
laboratories referred to in subsection
(a)(1)
each place it appears and inserting
national security
laboratories
.
(8)
Fellowship
program
Section 4623(b) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2723(b)
) is
amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting
either
of
after
who are
.
(9)
Worker
protection
Section 4641 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2731
) is amended
by striking subsection (e).
(10)
Safety
oversight and enforcement
Section 4642 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2732) is amended—
(A)
by striking
(a)
Safety at defense
nuclear facilities
.—
; and
(B)
by striking
subsection (b).
(11)
Monitoring
workers exposed to hazardous and radioactive substances
Section
4643 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2733
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a),
by inserting
of Energy
after
Secretary
;
and
(B)
in subsection
(b)—
(i)
in
paragraph (2)(B)—
(I)
by inserting
and Prevention
after
Disease Control
; and
(II)
by striking the
semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
(ii)
in
paragraph (3)(C), by inserting
and Measurements
after
Radiation Protection
;
(iii)
in
paragraph (4)—
(I)
by striking
paragraph (1)(D)
and inserting
paragraph (1)(B)
;
and
(II)
by striking
paragraph (1)(E)
and inserting
paragraph (1)
;
and
(iv)
in
paragraph (5), by striking
paragraph (1)(E)
and inserting
paragraph (1)
.
(12)
Programs
relating to exposure on Hanford Reservation
Section 4644(c) of
such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2734(c)
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
the Congress
each place it appears and inserting
Congress
; and
(B)
in paragraph (4),
by inserting
and Prevention
after
Disease
Control
.
(13)
Notification of
nuclear criticality and non-nuclear incidents
Section 4646(a) of
such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2736(a)
) is amended by striking
Energy and
and inserting
Energy or
.
(h)
Budget and
financial matters
(1)
Reprogramming
Section
4702(c) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2742(c)
) is amended by striking
subsection (a)
and insert
this subsection
.
(2)
Transfer of
defense environmental cleanup funds
Section 4710 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 2750) is amended—
(A)
in the section
heading, by striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
;
(B)
in subsection
(a)—
(i)
in
the subsection heading, by striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
; and
(ii)
by
striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
;
and
(C)
in subsection
(e)—
(i)
in
paragraph (1)—
(I)
by striking
environmental restoration or waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
; and
(II)
by striking
environmental management
and inserting
environmental
cleanup
; and
(ii)
in
paragraph (2)—
(I)
by striking
environmental management
and inserting
environmental
cleanup
; and
(II)
by striking
environmental restoration and waste management
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup
.
(3)
Transfer of
weapons activities funds
Section 4711(d) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2751(d)) is amended by striking
for Nuclear Security
.
(4)
Notification of
cost overruns
Section 4713(a)(3) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2753(a)(3)) is amended—
(A)
in the paragraph
heading, by striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
; and
(B)
in subparagraph
(A), by striking
management
and inserting
cleanup
.
(5)
Use of funds
for penalties under environmental laws
Section 4721(b)(2) of such
Act (
50 U.S.C. 2761(b)(2)
) is amended by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(6)
Restriction on
use of funds to pay certain penalties
Section 4722 of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2762
) is amended—
(A)
by inserting
; 94 Stat. 3197
after
Public Law 96–540
;
and
(B)
by striking
the Congress
and inserting
Congress
.
(i)
Administrative
matters
(1)
Costs not
allowed under covered contracts
Section 4801(b)(1) of such Act
(
50 U.S.C. 2781(b)(1)
) is amended by striking
section 22 of the Office
of Federal Procurement Policy Act (
41 U.S.C. 418b
)
and inserting
section 1707 of title 41, United States Code
.
(2)
Contractor
liability for certain injuries or loss of property
Section
4803(b)(1) of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2783(b)(1)
) is amended by striking
by
the Act of March 9, 1920 (
46 U.S.C. App. 741–752
), or by the Act of March 3,
1925 (
46 U.S.C. App. 781–790
)
and inserting
or by chapter 309 or
311 of title 46, United States Code
.
(3)
Use of funds for
laboratory-directed research and development
Section 4812 of such
Act (
50 U.S.C. 2792
) is amended—
(A)
by striking
subsection (b);
(B)
by striking
General
Limitations
.—(1)
and inserting
Limitation on use of weapons activities
funds
.—
;
(C)
by striking
(2)
and inserting
(b)
Limitation on use of certain
other funds
.—
; and
(D)
in subsection
(b), as redesignated by subparagraph (C)—
(i)
by
striking
environmental restoration, waste management, or nuclear
materials and facilities stabilization
and inserting
defense
environmental cleanup
; and
(ii)
by
striking
environmental restoration mission, waste management mission, or
materials stabilization mission, as the case may be,
and inserting
defense environmental cleanup mission
.
(4)
Report on
laboratory-directed research and development funds
(A)
In
general
Section 4812A of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2793
) is
amended—
(i)
in
the section heading, by striking
Limitation
and inserting
Report
;
(ii)
by
striking subsection (a);
(iii)
by
striking
(b)
Annual
report
.—(1)
and inserting
(a)
Report
required
.—
;
(iv)
by
striking
(2)
and inserting
(b)
Preparation of
report
.—
; and
(v)
by
striking
(3)
and inserting
(c)
Criteria used in preparation of
report
.—
.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4812A and inserting the following new
item:
Sec. 4812A. Report on use of
funds for certain research and development
purposes.
.
(5)
Critical
technology partnerships
Section 4813 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2794
)
is amended—
(A)
in subsection (b),
by striking
for Nuclear Security
; and
(B)
in subsection
(c)—
(i)
in paragraph (1),
by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following new subparagraph
(C):
(C)
that is a defense
critical technology (as defined in
section 2500
of title 10, United States
Code).
;
and
(ii)
in
paragraph (3)(B)(iii), by striking
Governments
and insert
governments
.
(6)
Certain
transfers of real property
Section 4831 of such Act (50 U.S.C.
2811), as amended by subsection (a)(2)(K), is further amended by striking
Secretary of Energy
each place it appears other than in
subsection (a)(1) and inserting
Secretary
.
(7)
Engineering and
manufacturing research, development, and demonstration
(A)
In
general
Section 4832 of such Act (
50 U.S.C. 2812
) is amended in
the section heading by striking
plant managers of certain nuclear weapons production
plants
and inserting
managers of certain nuclear weapons production
facilities
.
(B)
Clerical
amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 4832 and inserting the following new
item:
Sec. 4832. Engineering and
manufacturing research, development, and demonstration by managers of certain
nuclear weapons production
facilities.
.
XXXII
Defense
Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
3201.
Authorization
There are authorized to be appropriated for
fiscal year 2014, $29,915,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear
Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42
U.S.C. 2286 et seq.).
XXXV
Maritime
Administration
3501.
Maritime
Administration
Section 109 of
title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
§ 109. Maritime
administration
(a)
Organization
and mission
The Maritime Administration is an administration in
the Department of Transportation. The mission of the Maritime Administration is
to foster, promote, and develop the merchant maritime industry of the United
States.
(b)
Maritime
administrator
The head of the Maritime Administration is the
Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the President by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The Administrator shall report directly to
the Secretary of Transportation and carry out the duties prescribed by the
Secretary.
(c)
Deputy maritime
administrator
The Maritime Administration shall have a Deputy
Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the competitive service by the
Secretary, after consultation with the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator
shall carry out the duties prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy
Administrator shall be Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of
the Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual,
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
(d)
Duties and
powers vested in secretary
All duties and powers of the Maritime
Administration are vested in the Secretary.
(e)
Regional
offices
The Maritime Administration shall have regional offices
for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port ranges, and may have
other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary shall appoint a qualified
individual as Director of each regional office. The Secretary shall carry out
appropriate activities and programs of the Maritime Administration through the
regional offices.
(f)
Interagency and
industry relations
The Secretary shall establish and maintain
liaison with other agencies, and with representative trade organizations
throughout the United States, concerned with the transportation of commodities
by water in the export and import foreign commerce of the United States, for
the purpose of securing preference to vessels of the United States for the
transportation of those commodities.
(g)
Detailing
officers from armed forces
To assist the Secretary in carrying
out duties and powers relating to the Maritime Administration, not more than
five officers of the armed forces may be detailed to the Secretary at any one
time, in addition to details authorized by any other law. During the period of
a detail, the Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the armed forces, makes the
officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would be paid to an
individual performing work the Secretary considers to be of similar importance,
difficulty, and responsibility as that performed by the officer during the
detail.
(h)
Contracts,
cooperative agreements, and audits
(1)
Contracts and
cooperative agreements
In the same manner that a private
corporation may make a contract within the scope of its authority under its
charter, the Secretary may make contracts and cooperative agreements for the
United States Government and disburse amounts to—
(A)
carry out the
Secretary's duties and powers under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and
all other Maritime Administration programs; and
(B)
protect,
preserve, and improve collateral held by the Secretary to secure
indebtedness.
(2)
Audits
The
financial transactions of the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be audited by
the Comptroller General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an
expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the business
activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of title 46. At least once
a year, the Comptroller General shall report to Congress any departure by the
Secretary from this section or subtitle V of title 46.
(i)
Grant
administrative expenses
Except as otherwise provided by law, the
administrative and related expenses for the administration of any grant
programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 percent.
(j)
Authorization
of appropriations
(1)
In
general
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, there
are authorized to be appropriated such amounts as may be necessary to carry out
the duties and powers of the Secretary relating to the Maritime
Administration.
(2)
Limitations
Only
those amounts specifically authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of
the Maritime Administration for—
(A)
acquisition,
construction, or reconstruction of vessels;
(B)
construction-differential
subsidies incident to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of
vessels;
(C)
costs of national
defense features;
(D)
payments of
obligations incurred for operating-differential subsidies;
(E)
expenses
necessary for research and development activities, including reimbursement of
the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting from expenses of
experimental vessel operations;
(F)
the Vessel
Operations Revolving Fund;
(G)
National Defense
Reserve Fleet expenses;
(H)
expenses
necessary to carry out part B of subtitle V of title 46; and
(I)
other operations
and training expenses related to the development of waterborne transportation
systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, and general
administration.
(3)
Training
vessels
Amounts may not be appropriated for the purchase or
construction of training vessels for State maritime academies unless the
Secretary has approved a plan for sharing training vessels between State
maritime
academies.
.
D
Funding
Tables
4001.
Authorization
of amounts in funding tables
(a)
In
general
Whenever a funding table in this division specifies a
dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or activity, the obligation
and expenditure of the specified dollar amount for the project, program, or
activity is hereby authorized, subject to the availability of
appropriations.
(b)
Merit-based
decisions
A decision to commit, obligate, or expend funds with or
to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar amount authorized pursuant to
subsection (a) shall—
(1)
be based on
merit-based selection procedures in accordance with the requirements of
sections
2304(k)
and
2374
of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive
procedures; and
(2)
comply with other
applicable provisions of law.
(c)
Relationship to
transfer and programming authority
An amount specified in the
funding tables in this division may be transferred or reprogrammed under a
transfer or reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this Act
or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an amount specified in such
funding tables shall not count against a ceiling on such transfers or
reprogrammings under section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other
provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds
between appropriation accounts.
(d)
Applicability
to classified annex
This section applies to any classified annex
that accompanies this Act.
(e)
Oral and
written communications
No oral or written communication
concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division shall
supersede the requirements of this section.
