1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Children and Firefighters Protection Act of 2014
.
2.
Prohibition on sale of certain products containing specified flame re­tar­dants
(a)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
children's product
,
consumer product
,
distribute in commerce
,
distributor
,
import
,
manufacturer
,
retailer
, and
United States
have the meanings given such terms in section 3(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2052(a)).
(b)
Prohibition
It shall be unlawful for any manufacturer, distributor, or retailer to
sell, offer for sale, manufacture for sale, distribute in commerce, or
import into the United
States any children's product or upholstered furniture that
contains a flame retardant specified in subsection (c) that exceeds 1,000
parts per million total chemical content by weight for any part of the
product or furniture.
(c)
Specified flame retardants
The flame retardants specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl)phosphate (TDCPP) (chemical abstracts service number 13674–87–8).
(2)
Tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate (TCEP) (chemical abstracts service number 115–1496–8).
(3)
Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) (chemical abstracts service number 79–94–7).
(4)
Decabromodiphenyl ether (chemical abstracts service number 1163–19–5).
(5)
Antimony trioxide (chemical abstracts service number 1309–64–4).
(6)
Hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD) (chemical abstracts service number 25637–99–4).
(7)
Bis(2-Ethylhexyl)-3,4,5,6-tetrabromophthalate (TBPH) (chemical abstract service number
26040–51–7).
(8)
2-EthylhexYl-2,3,4,5-tetrabromobenzoate (TBB) (chemical abstract service number 183658–27–7).
(9)
Chlorinated paraffins (chemical abstract services number 85535–84–8).
(10)
Tris (1-chloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TCPP) (chemical abstract service number 13674–84–5).
(11)
Such other chemical flame retardants as the Commission may specify by rule under subsection (d)(5).
(d)
Chronic hazard advisory panel
(1)
Appointment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall appoint a
chronic hazard advisory panel pursuant to the
procedures of section 28 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2077) to study the effects on human health of all chemical flame
retardants as used in children's products or upholstered
furniture.
(2)
Examination
(A)
In general
The panel shall, not later than 540 days after the date on which the panel is appointed under
paragraph (1), complete an examination of the potential hazards and
exposures for the full range of chemical flame retardants that may be used
in children's products or upholstered furniture to meet
applicable fire safety standards and shall—
(i)
examine potential health effects of the chemical flame retardants, including—
(I)
developmental toxicity;
(II)
carcinogenicity, genetic damage, or reproductive toxicity;
(III)
endocrine disruption;
(IV)
toxicity related to the nervous system, immune system, or organs or cause other systemic toxicity;
and
(V)
whether they are—
(aa)
persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic; or
(bb)
very persistent and very bioaccumulative;
(ii)
consider the potential health effects of such chemical flame retardants, both in isolation and in
combination with other flame retardants;
(iii)
examine biomonitoring studies that document existing levels and likely future levels of chemical
flame retardants in children, pregnant women, firefighters (including
combustion by-products of chemical flame retardants), and others;
(iv)
examine data and analysis regarding the chemical flame retardants in household dust, indoor air, or
elsewhere in the home environment;
(v)
consider the cumulative effects of total exposure to flame retardants, both from children’s
products, upholstered furniture, and from other sources, such
as food, commercial furniture, building insulation, and electronics;
(vi)
review all relevant data, including the most recent, best-available, peer-reviewed, scientific
studies of these chemical flame retardants that
employ objective data collection practices or employ other objective
methods;
(vii)
consider the amounts of chemical flame retardants used in consumer products and the total volumes
manufactured for use; and
(viii)
consider possible similar health effects of chemical flame retardants used in children's products
or upholstered furniture.
(3)
Do novo
The panel's examinations pursuant to this subsection shall be conducted de novo. The findings and
conclusions of any previous chronic hazard advisory panel on chemical
flame
retardants and other studies conducted by the Commission shall be reviewed
by the panel but shall not be considered determinative.
(4)
Report
Not later than 180 days after completing its examination, the panel appointed under paragraph (1)
shall submit to the Commission a report on the results of the examination
conducted under this section and shall make recommendations to the
Commission regarding any chemical flame retardants (or combinations of
chemical flame
retardants) in addition to those identified in paragraphs (1) through (10)
of subsection (c) that the
panel determines should be prohibited
under subsection (b).
(5)
Specification of additional chemical flame retardants
Not later than 180 days after receiving the report of the panel under paragraph (4), the Commission
shall—
(A)
evaluate the findings of the chronic hazard advisory panel regarding the examination carried out
under paragraph (2);
(B)
evaluate the recommendations submitted by the chronic hazard advisory panel under paragraph (4);
and
(C)
promulgate a final rule, based on the evaluations carried out under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
this paragraph, that specifies such chemical flame retardants that are not
listed in
paragraphs (1) through (10) of subsection (c) as the Commission determines
that the presence of such chemical flame retardant in any part of a
children's product or upholstered furniture may cause
substantial personal injury or substantial illness, including—
(i)
developmental or learning disabilities;
(ii)
cancer;
(iii)
endocrine disruption;
(iv)
reproductive harm; or
(v)
damage to the nervous system, immune system, or organs or cause other systemic toxicity.
(e)
Treatment of violation
A violation of subsection (b) shall be treated as a violation of section 19(a)(1) of the Consumer
Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2068(a)(1)
).
(f)
Product certification and labeling
A product subject to subsection (b) of this section shall not be subject to section 14(a)(2) of the
Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2063(a)(2)
) with respect to testing
for compliance with the requirements of this section.
(g)
Rulemaking
(1)
In general
The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall promulgate rules to carry out this section in
accordance with
section 553
of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Exemption from certain requirements
The requirements of sections 7 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 and 2058)
shall not apply to a rulemaking under this section.
(h)
Relation to State law
This section shall not annul, alter, or affect a provision of law of a State relating to the
presence of a chemical flame retardant in a children's product or
upholstered furniture except to the extent that such
provision of law is inconsistent with a provision of this section, and
then only to the extent of the inconsistency. For purposes of this
section, a provision of law of a State is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this section if the protection such provision of law affords
any person is greater than the protection provided under this section.
(i)
Effective date
(1)
In general
This Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, except subsection (b) shall
take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(2)
Applicability
Subsection (b) shall
apply with respect to children's products and upholstered
furniture manufactured after the date that is 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
