1.
Private nonprofit
facilities
(a)
Definition of
private nonprofit facility
Section 102(11)(B) of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5122(11)(B)
)
is amended to read as follows:
(B)
Additional
facilities
In addition to the facilities described in
subparagraph (A), the term
private nonprofit facility
includes any
private nonprofit facility that provides essential services to the general
public (including museums, zoos, performing arts facilities, community arts
centers, community centers, houses of worship, libraries, homeless shelters,
senior citizen centers, rehabilitation facilities, shelter workshops, and
facilities that provide health and safety services of a governmental nature),
as defined by the
President.
.
(b)
Repair,
restoration, and replacement of damaged facilities
Section
406(a)(3) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (
42 U.S.C. 5172(a)(3)
) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
(C)
Treatment of
Houses of worship
(i)
In
general
A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or other house of
worship, and an otherwise eligible private nonprofit facility operated by a
religious organization, shall be eligible for contributions under paragraph
(1)(B), without regard to the religious character of the facility or the
primary religious use of the facility.
(ii)
Limitations
Notwithstanding
clause (i), in spaces used primarily for religious worship services,
contributions under paragraph (1)(B) shall only be used to cover costs of
purchasing or replacing, without limitation, the building structure, building
enclosure components, building envelope, vertical and horizontal circulation,
physical plant support spaces, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical systems
(including heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, and fire and life safety
systems), and related site
improvements.
.
(c)
Applicability
This
section and the amendments made by this section shall apply to the provision of
assistance in response to a major disaster or emergency declared on or after
October 28, 2012.
