1.
Establishment
There is hereby established the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention (hereafter referred to as the
Select Committee
).
2.
Composition
(a)
Composition
The Select Committee shall be composed of 12 Members appointed by the Speaker, of whom 6 shall be appointed after consultation with the Minority Leader.
(b)
Chair and Ranking Minority Member
The Speaker shall designate one Member to serve as chair of the Select Committee, and the Minority Leader shall designate one Member to serve as ranking minority member of the Select Committee.
(c)
Vacancies
Any vacancy in the Select Committee shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
3.
Duties
(a)
Investigation and Study
The Select Committee is authorized and directed to conduct a full and complete investigation and study, and to issue a report of its findings to the House, regarding each of the following:
(1)
The causes of mass shootings.
(2)
Methods to improve the Federal firearms purchaser background check system.
(3)
Connections between access to firearms and dangerously mentally ill individuals.
(4)
Strengthening Federal penalties for trafficking and straw purchasing of firearms.
(5)
Closing loopholes that allow some domestic abusers continued access to firearms.
(6)
Linkages between firearms and suicide.
(7)
Gun violence’s effect on public health.
(8)
The correlation between State gun violence prevention laws and the incidence of gun violence.
(9)
The importance of having reliable and accurate information on gun violence and its toll on our Nation.
(10)
The implementation of effective gun violence prevention laws in accordance with the Second Amendment to the Constitution.
(11)
Rates of gun violence in large metropolitan areas.
(b)
Hearings
In carrying out its duties under subsection (a), the Select Committee shall hold at least one public hearing in the District of Columbia and at least two public hearings in locations outside of the District of Columbia.
4.
Rules and procedures
Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to the Select Committee in the same manner as such rule applies to a standing committee of the House, except to the extent inconsistent with this resolution.
5.
Staff; funding
(a)
Staff
The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation with the ranking minority member of the Select Committee, may employ and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
(b)
Funding
There shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of the House of Representatives such sums as may be necessary for the expenses of the Select Committee. Such payments shall be made on vouchers signed by the chair of the Select Committee and approved in the manner directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.
6.
Recommendations
(a)
Final Report
The Select Committee shall issue a final report and recommendations, including legislative proposals, not later than 60 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution.
(b)
Interim Findings and Reports
In addition to the final report and recommendations required under subsection (a), the Select Committee may issue such interim findings and reports as it deems necessary.
7.
Termination
(a)
In General
The Select Committee and all authority granted in this resolution shall expire upon the issuance by the Select Committee of the final report and recommendations under section 6(a).
(b)
Records
Upon the dissolution of the Select Committee, the records, files, and materials of the Select Committee shall be transferred to the Clerk of the House.
