Whereas Ms. Ellis was born October 22, 1957, in Mobile, Alabama;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was a Capitol Hill veteran of more than 30 years, and had served members of both the House of Representatives and Senate;
Whereas Ms. Ellis also worked for former Congressman Major Owens, who represented the 11th Congressional District of New York, and the late former Alabama Senator Howell Heflin;
Whereas Ms. Ellis most recently served as Chief of Staff to Congressman Al Green, who represents the 9th Congressional District of Texas;
Whereas Ms. Ellis has been a spiritual mother, sister, mentor, and friend to many people, including elected and other high-ranking officials;
Whereas Ms. Ellis graduated from Jarvis Christian College and would later go on to become a guest lecturer at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown University;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was inducted into Jarvis Christian College’s Pioneers Hall of Fame;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was a former National Board Member of the historic and world-renowned civil rights organization, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference;
Whereas Ms. Ellis received the Ella Baker Award from the SCLC’s former president and CEO, Martin Luther King III;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was a National Board Member for the National Congress of Black Women;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was a founding member of the Organization of African-American Administrative Assistants/Chiefs of Staff;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was the Chair of the Legislative Issues and Public Affairs Committee for the African-American women’s organization, the Links, Inc;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was the Social Action Commissioner for Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc;
Whereas Ms. Ellis received Mobile, Alabama’s NAACP’s Redeemer of the Dream Leadership Award;
Whereas Ms. Ellis was the Co-Chair of the Bethune-DuBois Institute, Inc. Leadership Forum;
Whereas Ms. Ellis received the Congressional Black Associates’ Robert H. Ogle Trailblazer’s Award;
Whereas Ms. Ellis, though successful, widely respected, loved by many and recognized for her numerous accomplishments, moved through life humbly and sought only to serve others; and
Whereas Ms. Ellis is survived by her siblings Cynthia Ellis-Evans, Sharon Ellis-Gregg, Harold C. Ellis, Jr., Darryl C. Ellis, Mary Y. Ellis, and William E. Ellis, as well as a multitude of other family members and friends: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
mourns the death of Ms. Jacqueline A. Ellis and expresses condolences to her family; and
(2)
celebrates the life of Ms. Jacqueline A. Ellis, as well as her righteous accomplishments and honorable deeds.
