Section 1.

The Commission.

(a) There is hereby established a commission which shall be known as the Temporary Alaska Claims Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).

(b) The Commission shall be composed of three persons, each of whom shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among persons who are not officers or employees of either the United States or the State of Alaska. The President shall from time to time designate one of the persons composing the Commission to be the chairman thereof.

(c) The General Services Administration is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the Commission on a reimbursable basis.

Sec. 2.

Functions of the Commission.

(a) With respect to certain property which was on December 31,1959, owned or held oy the United States and controlled by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior or its subdivisions as listed on the attachment hereof headed "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", the Commission the Commission shall consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle the dispute which has arisen between the United States and the State of Alaska concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal to the State of Alaska of the said property. The attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", mentioned above, is hereby made a part of this order.

(b) The Commission shall timely report to the Secretary of the Interior its settlements with respect to the said listed property.

Sec. 3.

Transfer of property.

To the extent necessitated by settlements made by the Commission in respect of the property listed on the hereto attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", the Secretary of the Interior, under the authority of subsection (e) of Section 6 of the Act of July 7, 1958, or under the authority of subsection (a) of Section 45 of the Alaska Omnibus Act as affected by Section 2 of Executive Order No. 10857 of December 29, 1959, as the case may be, shall transfer, convey, or otherwise dispose of the said property to the State of Alaska.

Sec. 4.

Termination of Commission.

The Commission shall terminate 60 days after the date of the delivery of its report to the Secretary of the Interior under the provisions of subsection (b) of Section 2 of this order or upon such earlier or later date as the President shall hereafter specify.
