1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Gambling Addiction Prevention Act
.
2.
Development and implementation of policies and programs to prevent and treat gambling disorder among members of the Armed Forces and their dependents
(a)
Policies and programs
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement policies and programs on prevention, education, and treatment of gambling disorder and integrate gambling disorder into existing mental health and substance use disorder programs.
(2)
Consultation
The Secretary shall develop the policies and programs described in paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b)
Educational materials and promotion of responsible behavior
(1)
In general
In carrying out policies and programs developed and implemented under subsection (a)(1), if the Secretary hosts or provides gambling activities at a morale, welfare, and recreation facility of the Department of Defense, the Secretary shall, at that facility—
(A)
provide—
(i)
educational materials and a list of resources to assist and empower members of the Armed Forces to identify the risks of gambling; and
(ii)
a list of resources and informational material on where such members can seek help if they develop gambling disorder; and
(B)
implement measures that encourage responsible behavior consistent with measures authorized and required by commercial and tribal gaming regulators in the United States.
(2)
Funding of measures
The Secretary shall fund measures implemented under paragraph (1)(B) through the use of proceeds generated by gambling activities at morale, welfare, and recreation facilities of the Department.
(c)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on efforts undertaken under this section.
(d)
Congressional defense committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
3.
Update of Department of Defense regulations, instructions, and other guidance to include gambling disorder
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall update all regulations, instructions, and other guidance of the Department of Defense and the military departments with respect to behavioral health to explicitly include gambling disorder.
(b)
Military departments defined
In this section, the term
military departments
has the meaning given that term in section 101(8) of title 10, United States Code.
