1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act of 2019
.
2.
Appropriations for the Coast Guard
There are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for any period during fiscal year 2019 during which interim or full-year appropriations for the Coast Guard are not in effect—
(1)
such sums as are necessary to provide pay and allowances to members of the Coast Guard (as described in section 1 of title 14, United States Code), including the reserve component thereof, who perform active service or inactive-duty training during such period;
(2)
such sums as are necessary to provide pay and allowances to civilian employees of the Coast Guard;
(3)
such sums as are necessary to provide pay and allowances to contractors of the Coast Guard;
(4)
such sums as are necessary for—
(A)
the payment of a death gratuity under sections 1475 through 1477 and 1489 of title 10, United States Code, with respect to members of the Coast Guard;
(B)
the payment or reimbursement of authorized funeral travel and travel related to the dignified transfer of remains and unit memorial services under section 481f of title 37, United States Code, with respect to members of the Coast Guard; and
(C)
the temporary continuation of a basic allowance of housing for dependents of members of the Coast Guard dying on active duty, as authorized by section 403(l) of title 37, United States Code; and
(5)
such sums as are necessary to provide for Coast Guard retired pay, including such payments as are described in the provision regarding Coast Guard retired pay in title II of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (
Public Law 115–141
; 132 Stat. 348).
3.
Termination
Appropriations and funds made available and authority granted for any purpose under section 2 shall be available for such purpose until whichever of the following first occurs:
(1)
The enactment into law of an appropriation (including a continuing appropriation) for such purpose.
(2)
The enactment into law of the applicable regular or continuing appropriations resolution or other Act without any appropriation for such purpose.
4.
Compensation for lapse in appropriations
(a)
Furloughed employees
Civilian employees of the Coast Guard furloughed as a result of a lapse in appropriations beginning on or about December 22, 2018, and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act shall be compensated at their standard rate of compensation, for the period of such lapse in appropriations, as soon as practicable.
(b)
Authority
All obligations incurred in anticipation of the appropriations made and authority granted by this Act for the purposes of maintaining the essential level of activity to protect life and property and bringing about orderly termination of Government functions, and for purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby ratified and approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of this Act.
