1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rebuilding Our Communities by Keeping aggregates Sustainable Act
or the
ROCKS Act
.
2.
Working group on covered resources
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a working group (in this section referred to as the
Working Group
) to conduct a study on the regulatory and legislative improvements necessary to preserve access to covered resources for, and reduce the costs and environmental impacts of, infrastructure projects.
(b)
Membership
(1)
Appointment
The Secretary shall appoint to the Working Group individuals with knowledge and expertise in the production and transportation of covered resources.
(2)
Representation
The Working Group shall include at least one representative of each of the following:
(A)
The Department of the Interior.
(B)
The United States Geological Survey.
(C)
The Army Corps of Engineers.
(D)
The Department of Defense.
(E)
State agencies, including State departments of transportation and State planning and geologic survey and mapping agencies.
(F)
Commercial motor vehicle operators, including small business operators and operators who transport covered resources.
(G)
Covered resources producers.
(H)
Construction contractors.
(I)
Metropolitan and regional planning organizations.
(J)
Indian Tribes, including tribal elected leadership or tribal transportation officials.
(c)
Duties
In carrying out the study required under subsection (a), the Working Group shall analyze—
(1)
the use of covered resources in federally funded transportation and construction projects;
(2)
how the proximity of covered resources to such projects affects the cost and environmental impact of such projects;
(3)
how State, tribal, and local transportation and planning agencies may consider covered resources when developing transportation and construction projects; and
(4)
measures the Secretary, relevant Federal agencies, and State, tribal, and local transportation and planning agencies may take to preserve covered resources for future development.
(d)
Consultation
In carrying out the study required under subsection (a), the Working Group shall consult with—
(1)
chief executive officers of States;
(2)
State, tribal, and local transportation and planning agencies;
(3)
other relevant State, tribal, and local agencies, including State agencies associated with covered resources protection;
(4)
members of the public with industry experience with respect to covered resources; and
(5)
any other stakeholder the Working Group determines appropriate.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Final report
Not later than 2 years after the date on which the Working Group is established, the Working Group shall submit to the Secretary and the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(A)
the findings of the study required under subsection (a), including a summary of the views expressed by individuals and entities consulted under subsection (d); and
(B)
the regulatory and legislative changes that the Working Group recommends to preserve access to covered resources for, and reduce the costs and environmental impacts, of infrastructure projects.
(2)
Interim report
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Working Group is established, the Working Group shall submit to the Secretary and the appropriate congressional committees a report on the progress of the Working Group in conducting the study required under subsection (a).
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2)
Covered resources
The term
covered resources
means common variety materials used in the construction and maintenance of roads, buildings, and other facilities, including stone, sand, and gravel.
(3)
Indian Tribe
The term
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given the term
Indian tribe
in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 5304
).
(4)
Relevant Federal agencies
The term
relevant Federal agencies
means the Department of Defense, the Department of the Interior, the Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Geological Survey, the General Services Administration, and any other Federal entity that provides funding to purchase covered resources.
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
(6)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each territory or possession of the United States.
