1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act of 2019
.
2.
Diversity study and disclosures
(a)
Diversity Advisory Group
(1)
Establishment
The Securities and Exchange Commission shall establish a Diversity Advisory Group (the
Advisory Group
), which shall be composed of representatives from the Government, academia, and the private sector.
(2)
Study and recommendations
The Advisory Group shall—
(A)
carry out a study on strategies to increase gender, racial, and ethnic diversity among the members of the board of directors of issuers; and
(B)
not later than 9 months after the establishment of the Advisory Group, issue a report to the Commission, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate containing the findings and determinations made in carrying out such study, along with recommendations to increase gender, racial, and ethnic diversity among the members of the board of directors of issuers.
(3)
Annual report
Not later than 1 year following the issuance of the report under paragraph (2)(B), and annually thereafter, the Commission shall issue a report to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on the status of gender, racial, and ethnic diversity among the members of the board of directors of issuers.
(4)
Public availability of reports
The Commission shall make all reports of the Advisory Group available to issuers and the public, including on the website of the Commission.
(b)
Disclosures
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 14B the following:
14C.
Diversity disclosures
The Commission shall, by rule, require each issuer to disclose, in any proxy or consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders of the issuer, the gender, racial, and ethnic composition of the issuer’s board of directors and nominees for the board of directors.
.
