1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Pollution through Partnerships Act
or as the
P3 Act
.
2.
Green infrastructure bonds as qualified private activity bonds
(a)
In general
Subpart A of part IV of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
148.
Qualified green infrastructure bond
For purposes of this part—
(1)
Qualified green infrastructure bond defined
The term
green infrastructure bond
means any bond issued as part of an issue 95 percent or more of the net proceeds of which are to be used to develop, carry out, or certify approved green infrastructure projects.
(2)
Approved green infrastructure project
The term
approved green infrastructure project
means a project to construct, rehabilitate, maintain, or repair green infrastructure that has been certified by the State in which such project is located as effectively addressing nonpoint source pollution (as such term is used in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act).
(3)
Green infrastructure defined
The term
green infrastructure
means infrastructure that preserves, enhances, or mimics natural infiltration, evapotranspiration, or capture of storm water.
.
(b)
No volume cap
Section 146(g)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
and
at the end of paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting
, and
, and by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
(5)
any green infrastructure bond.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section 141(e)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (G), and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(H)
a qualified green infrastructure bond.
.
(2)
The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of subchapter B of
chapter 1
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
Sec. 148. Qualified green infrastructure bond.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to obligations issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.
