1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp Act
.
2.
Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp
(a)
In general
In order to afford a convenient way for members of the public to contribute to funding diabetes prevention activities, the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal (in this Act referred to as the
Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp
) in accordance with this section.
(b)
Terms and conditions
(1)
In general
The issuance and sale of the Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp shall be governed by the provisions of section 416 of title 39, United States Code, and regulations issued under such section, subject to the requirements of this subsection.
(2)
Duration
The Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp shall be made available to the public for a period of 10 years, beginning no later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(3)
Cost
The Diabetes Prevention Semi­post­al Stamp shall be offered at a cost equal to the cost of mailing a letter weighing 1 ounce or less at the nonautomation single-piece first-ounce letter rate, in effect at the time of purchase, plus a differential of not less than 25 percent.
(4)
Disposition of proceeds
All amounts becoming available from the sale of the Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp (as determined under section 416(d) of such title) shall be transferred to the National Diabetes Prevention Program of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through payments which shall be made at least twice a year.
(5)
Proceeds not to be offset
In accordance with section 416(d)(4) of such title, amounts becoming available from the sale of the Diabetes Prevention Semipostal Stamp shall not be taken into account in any decision relating to the level of appropriations or other Federal funding to be furnished in any year to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the National Diabetes Prevention Program.
(c)
Definition
For purposes of this Act, the term
semipostal
refers to a postage stamp described in section 416(a)(1) of title 39, United States Code.
