1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as
The District of Columbia Returning Citizens Coordination Act of 2019
.
2.
District of Columbia agencies to be treated as Federal agencies for purposes of certain privacy laws
For purposes of a provision of law set forth in section 3, to the extent that such provision of law applies to any communication for purposes of providing public benefits or services to any person resuming or commencing residence in the District of Columbia (including any person resuming or commencing residence in the District of Columbia upon release from any term of imprisonment) between—
(1)
the Director of the Bureau of Prisons and any agency of the District of Columbia; or
(2)
the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia and any agency of the District of Columbia,
the agency of the District of Columbia shall be treated as a Federal agency for purposes of such
provision of law.
3.
Provisions of law described
The provisions of law set forth in this section are as follows:
(1)
Title II of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (including parts 160 and 165 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations).
(2)
Section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (including part 2 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations).
(3)
Section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
Privacy Act
).
(4)
Any other provision of law setting forth substantially similar protections for the privacy of information.
4.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed to expand the authority of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons or the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia to disclose information to any law enforcement officer.
5.
District of Columbia Council
For purposes of this Act, the Council of the District of Columbia shall be considered an agency of the District of Columbia.
6.
Application of Privacy Act
A communication under this Act shall be deemed to be a lawful disclosure under section 552a(b)(7) of title 5, United States Code.
