1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Community Safety Task Force Act
.
2.
Improving community safety task force
(a)
Establishment
The Attorney General shall establish a community safety task force (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
task force
) within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act with the goal of promoting community safety.
(b)
Membership
(1)
Composition
The task force shall include a chairperson and twelve members selected by the Attorney General in consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, and the minority leader of the Senate in accordance with the following:
(A)
Representation
Membership shall include at least one representative of:
(i)
Community organizations.
(ii)
Non-governmental civil rights organizations.
(iii)
State law enforcement.
(iv)
Federal law enforcement.
(v)
Firefighters.
(vi)
Emergency medical technicians.
(vii)
Security officers from educational institutions.
(viii)
An institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965) that is determined by the Attorney General to have expertise in law enforcement research.
(ix)
Local governments, including one municipal and one county law enforcement representative.
(B)
Geographic diversity
In selecting membership, the Attorney General shall make sure the task force includes representatives from all regions of the country, and from rural, urban, and suburban communities.
(2)
Chairperson
The Attorney General shall appoint the chairperson of the task force from among the members.
(3)
Term of membership
Members of the task force shall serve until the task force is terminated. The chairperson shall serve until the Attorney General appoints a new chairperson.
(4)
Compensation
Members of the task force may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the task force.
(c)
Duties
The duties of the task force are as follows:
(1)
To study violence against and involving law enforcement and first responders.
(2)
To make recommendations on steps that can be taken to limit such violence, including assessing—
(A)
the causes for, the frequency of, and the types of attacks against law enforcement officers and other first responders; and
(B)
the causes for, the frequency of, and the types of law enforcement’s use of deadly force.
(3)
To make recommendations about—
(A)
how to prevent attacks against law enforcement officers and other first responders; and
(B)
how to minimize use of deadly force by law enforcement.
(d)
Powers of the task force
(1)
Hearings
The task force may, for the purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the task force considers appropriate.
(2)
Powers of members and agents
Any member or agent of the task force may, if authorized by the task force, take any action which the task force is authorized to take by this section.
(3)
Obtaining official data
Subject to applicable privacy laws and regulations, the task force may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable it to carry out this section. Upon request of the chairperson of the task force, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that information to the task force.
(4)
Mails
The task force may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States.
(5)
Administrative support services
Upon the request of the task force, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the task force, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services necessary for the task force to carry out its duties under this section.
(6)
Contract authority
To the extent or in the amounts provided in advance in appropriation Acts, the task force may contract with and compensate government agencies and private entities or persons for services necessary to carry out its duties under this section.
(e)
Operating rules and procedures
(1)
Initial meeting
The task force shall meet not later than 30 days after the date on which a majority of the members of the task force have been appointed.
(2)
Meetings
The task force shall alternate its meeting locations between the geographic regions reflected in the task force membership.
(3)
Voting
Each member of the task force shall have one vote.
(4)
Rules and procedures
Any member of the task force may propose to create or alter existing operating rules and procedures consistent with the functions of the task force. Any change to the operating rules and procedures shall be adopted only upon a majority vote of the task force.
(5)
Recommendations
The task force shall adopt recommendations under subsection (c)(2) and subsection (c)(4) only upon a majority vote.
(6)
Quorum
A majority of the members of the task force shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold meetings.
(f)
Director and staff
(1)
Director
The task force may appoint and set the pay of a director.
(2)
Staff
The director may appoint not more than 10 staff personnel as the director considers appropriate.
(3)
Applicability of certain civil service laws
The staff of the task force shall be appointed subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
(4)
Experts and consultants
The task force and the director, acting with the approval of the task force, may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
(5)
Staff of federal agencies
Upon the request of the director, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the task force to assist it in carrying out its duties under this section.
(g)
Duration
The task force established under subsection (a) shall terminate not later than two years after the date of which the task force is established under such subsection.
(h)
Reports
(1)
Submittal of report
Not later than one year after the date of the initial meeting of the task force, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report on the recommendations of the task force.
(2)
Assessment of implementation
Not later than 120 days after submission of the report in subsection (h)(1), the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report containing the assessment of the Attorney General regarding the implementation of the recommendations of the task force.
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2019 through 2020 to carry out this section.
(j)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Crime of violence
The term
crime of violence
means any Federal, State, or local offense that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another.
(2)
Deadly force
The term
deadly force
means force reasonably anticipated and intended to create a substantial likelihood of causing death or great bodily injury.
(3)
First responder
The term
first responder
means an individual with specialized training, the duties of whose position are primarily to provide on-site assistance including Federal, State, and local governmental and nongovernmental firefighter, emergency medical technician, and paramedic personnel.
(4)
Law enforcement officer
The term
law enforcement officer
means an individual, the duties of whose position are primarily the investigation, apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against criminal or civil laws, including police, corrections, probation, parole, and judicial officers.
