1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FEMA Disaster Preparedness Improvement Act
.
2.
Hazard mitigation
Section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170c
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a) by striking
75
and inserting
85
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Expanded eligibility
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the President may provide hazard mitigation assistance in accordance with this section in any area designated by the Administrator under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.) as an area having special flood hazards that has suffered at least one severe repetitive loss (as such term is defined in section 1307(h) of such Act) or repetitive loss (as defined in section 1370 of such Act).
(i)
Period of performance
(1)
In general
A project receiving assistance under this section shall be completed not later than the date that is 36 months after the date of the completion of all applicable environmental reviews required by Federal or State law with respect to such project or a later feasible date determined by the Administrator.
(2)
Extension of period of performance
Upon the request of a recipient of hazard mitigation assistance provided under this section, the Administrator may—
(A)
issue an extension of not more than 1 year of the period of performance deadline described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
issue additional extensions of not more than 1 year upon the expiration of an extension issued pursuant to subparagraph (A) or this subparagraph.
(3)
Rule of statutory construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the Administrator or a State delegated authority under subsection (c) to establish a period of performance shorter than the period of performance described in paragraph (1).
.
3.
Emergency management performance grants program
Section 662(c) of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (
6 U.S.C. 762
) is amended by striking
50 percent
and inserting
85 percent
.
4.
GAO report to Congress on challenges under public assistance alternative procedures
(a)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on the challenges to States and Territories of the United States in obtaining assistance under section 428 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5189f
).
(b)
Contents
In conducting the study described in subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall study the challenges for assistance described in subsection (a) faced by the following:
(1)
Rural areas, as such term is defined in section 423 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5189a
).
(2)
Small impoverished communities, as such term is defined in section 203 of such Act.
(3)
Other communities, areas, or individuals that the Comptroller General determines pertinent.
(c)
Report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the study required under subsection (a).
