1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Food and Farm Emergency Assistance Act
.
2.
Food business infrastructure and equipment response grants
(a)
Grants
The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Administrator of the Agriculture Marketing Service, shall make grants to eligible entities, on a competitive basis, to carry out activities to support worker and public health and safety, or to adapt production, processing, distribution, and sales systems, in response to COVID–19.
(b)
Eligible uses
Amounts received by an eligible entity under a grant under this section shall be used for activities directly relating to COVID–19 response and recovery, including—
(1)
costs incurred during the COVID–19 emergency period that are associated with protecting employee and consumer health and safety, such as for personal protective equipment;
(2)
costs incurred during such period that are associated with transitioning to a different businesses model, such as direct-to-consumer, online sales, or delivery;
(3)
costs incurred during such period to purchase or lease equipment for food processing, storage, or refrigeration; and
(4)
other similar costs incurred during such period that arise from adjusting to the COVID–19 pandemic.
(c)
Applications
(1)
In general
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an application in such manner, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(2)
Requirements
The Secretary shall ensure that the application required under paragraph (1) is—
(A)
as simple as is practicable;
(B)
accessible online; and
(C)
also available through all local offices of the Department of Agriculture.
(3)
Decisions
Not later than 7 days after the date on which the Secretary receives an application under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall notify the eligible entity that submitted the application—
(A)
whether the application is approved or denied;
(B)
if the application is approved, the date on which the eligible entity will receive the grant funds; and
(C)
if denied, the reason for denial and whether the application may be revised and resubmitted.
(4)
Preferences
In reviewing applications submitted under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to applications containing proposals intended to—
(A)
expand access to food for participants in—
(i)
the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under section 4 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2013
); and
(ii)
a program authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.) or Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1771
et seq.), including the national school lunch program, the national school breakfast program, the summer food service program for children, the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children, and the child and adult care food program;
(B)
enhance food distribution in high-need or underserved areas;
(C)
address local agricultural product oversupply issues and reduce food waste; or
(D)
benefit young farmers or ranchers, beginning farmers of ranchers (as defined in section 2501(a) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (
7 U.S.C. 2279(a)
)), or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers (as defined in such section 2501(a)).
(d)
Limitations on amounts
The amount of a grant under this section shall not exceed—
(1)
in the case of an eligible entity described in subsection (f)(1), $15,000; and
(2)
in the case of any other eligible entity, $35,000.
(e)
Outreach
The Secretary shall conduct outreach to States and eligible entities with respect to the availability of grants under this section.
(f)
Eligible entity defined
In this section, the term
eligible entity
means—
(1)
an individual agricultural producer;
(2)
a group of agricultural producers, including—
(A)
a cooperative; and
(B)
a network or association of individual farms;
(3)
a small or very small processor of agricultural products with less than 150 employees, as determined by the Secretary;
(4)
a local distributor, including a food hub and a farmers market; and
(5)
any other business that is critical to maintaining a resilient agricultural supply chain in the United States, as determined by the Secretary.
(g)
Funding
Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary shall use $100,000,000 to carry out this section for fiscal year 2020, to remain available until expended.
(h)
COVID–19 emergency period
The term
COVID–19 emergency period
has the meaning given the term
emergency period
in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320b–5(g)(1)(B)
).
