1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Discrimination Against Veteran Home Buyers Act
.
2.
Grant program for appraisers
(a)
Grant program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a two-year grant program for veterans to become VA home loan appraisers. The grant program shall be known as the
Veterans Serving Veterans Appraiser Program
.
(b)
Eligible entities
The Secretary may award a grant under subsection (a) to any of the following:
(1)
A congressionally chartered veterans service organization.
(2)
A State, local, or Tribal veterans service agency.
(3)
A nonprofit organization that has historically served veterans housing needs.
(4)
A nonprofit entity that the Secretary determines has a demonstrated history of community engagement.
(5)
Any other entity the Secretary determines appropriate.
(c)
Amount; frequency
A grant awarded under subsection (a) may not exceed $500,000. The Secretary may not award more than one grant to a single eligible entity.
(d)
Use of funds
An entity that is awarded a grant under subsection (a) shall use such grant to establish and carry out training programs for veterans to become VA home loan appraisers.
(e)
Regulations
The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section, including with respect to the evaluation of applications for grants awarded under subsection (a). Such evaluation shall prioritize eligible entities that will use the grant on programs to train veterans who will become VA home loan appraisers in the county in which the veteran resides.
(f)
Report
Not later than one year after the date on which the grant program under subsection (a) commences, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on—
(1)
the number of veterans participating in a training program to become a VA home loan appraiser pursuant to such grant program; and
(2)
the types and locations of the entities that have been awarded a grant.
(g)
VA home loan appraiser defined
In this section, the term
VA home loan appraiser
means an appraiser described in section 3731(a)(3) of title 38, United States Code.
