1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Drinking Water in Playgrounds and Parks Act
.
2.
Drinking water fountain replacement for playgrounds and parks
(a)
Playgrounds and parks owned by schools
Section 1465(b) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–25(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, including in playgrounds and parks owned or administered by schools
after
schools
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
including in playgrounds and parks owned or administered by such schools,
after
such funds,
.
(b)
Public playgrounds or parks
(1)
Grant program
Part F of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–21
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
1466.
Drinking water fountain replacement in public playgrounds and parks
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a grant program to provide assistance to States and municipalities for the replacement, in playgrounds or parks owned by States or municipalities, of drinking water fountains manufactured prior to 1988.
(b)
Use of Funds
Funds awarded under the grant program—
(1)
shall be used to pay the costs of replacement of drinking water fountains in playgrounds or parks owned by a State or municipality receiving such funds; and
(2)
may be used to pay the costs of monitoring and reporting of lead levels in the drinking water of playgrounds or parks owned by a State or municipality receiving such funds, as determined appropriate by the Administrator.
(c)
Priority
In awarding funds under the grant program, the Administrator shall give priority to projects and activities that benefit an underserved community or a disadvantaged community.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
.
(2)
Definitions
Section 1461 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300j–21
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(8)
Disadvantaged community
The term
disadvantaged community
has the meaning given such term in section 1452(d)(3).
(9)
Playground or park
The term
playground or park
means an indoor or outdoor park, building, site, or other facility, including any parking lot appurtenant thereto, that is intended for recreation purposes.
(10)
Underserved community
The term
underserved community
has the meaning given such term in section 1459A.
.
