1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA High Altitude and Suicide Research Act
.
2.
Study on connection between living at high altitude and suicide risk factors among veterans
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with Rural Health Resource Centers of the Office of Rural Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, shall commence the conduct of a study on the connection between living at high altitude and the risk of developing depression or dying by suicide among veterans.
(b)
Completion of study
The study conducted under subsection (a) shall be completed not later than three years after the date of the commencement of the study.
(c)
Individual impact
The study conducted under subsection (a) shall be conducted so as to determine the effect of high altitude on suicide risk at the individual level, not at the State or county level, controlling for potential confounders including with respect to age, sex, mental health status, and access to firearms.
(d)
Report
Not later than 150 days after the completion of the study conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study.
(e)
Follow-Up study
(1)
In general
If the Secretary determines through the study conducted under subsection (a) that living at high altitude is a risk factor for developing depression or dying by suicide, the Secretary shall conduct an additional study to identify the following:
(A)
The most likely biological mechanism that makes living at high altitude a risk factor for developing depression or dying by suicide.
(B)
The most effective treatment or intervention for reducing the risk of developing depression or dying by suicide associated with living at high altitude.
(2)
Report
Not later than 150 days after completing the study conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study.
