1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Accountability for Migrant Deaths Act of 2019
.
2.
Congressional notification of foreign national deaths in custody
Not later than 24 hours after a foreign national dies while in the custody of the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the appropriate Secretary shall notify Congress of such death, which notification shall include a description of the circumstances of such death.
3.
Limitation on the assertion of Executive privilege
The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may not assert Executive privilege with respect to testimony before a committee of the House of Representatives or of the Senate related to a death described in section 2.
4.
Committee hearings on foreign national deaths in custody required in the House
(a)
Amendment to the Rules of the House of Representatives
Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
Committee hearings on foreign national deaths in custody required
(7)
Not later than one week after receiving a notification under section 1 of the
Accountability for Migrant Deaths Act of 2019
that a foreign national died while in the custody of the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the chair of the Committee on Oversight and Reform or another standing committee of jurisdiction shall convene a hearing to receive testimony from appropriate agency officials related to the death.
.
(b)
Exercise of rulemaking power
The provisions of this section are enacted by the Congress—
(1)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of Representatives, and as such they shall be considered as part of the rules of the House, and such rules shall supersede other rules only to the extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
(2)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of the House of Representatives to change such rules at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the House.
5.
Foreign national
In determining the meaning of any Act of Congress, or of any ruling, regulation, or interpretation of various administrative bureaus and agencies of the United States, the term
foreign national
means any individual other than an individual—
(1)
who is a citizen of the United States; or
(2)
though not a citizen of the United States, who owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
