1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Know Conflicts Act of 2019
.
2.
Full disclosure of entities receiving Federal funding
Section 2 of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (
31 U.S.C. 6101
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by redesignating—
(i)
paragraphs (6) through (8) as paragraphs (9) through (11), respectively; and
(ii)
paragraphs (1) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through (7), respectively;
(B)
by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated, the following:
(1)
Active financial conflict of interest
The term
active financial conflict of interest
means any potential source of conflict that constitutes a financial interest in or liability owed to an entity reported as receiving a Federal award under this Act.
(2)
Covered person
The term
covered person
means the President, Vice President, the spouse of the President, the spouse of the Vice President, a dependent child of the President, or a dependent child of the Vice President.
; and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (7), as redesignated the following:
(8)
Potential source of conflict
The term
potential source of conflict
means any financial interest or liability held by a covered person that—
(A)
(i)
is not a financial interest described in
section 102(f)(8)
of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); and
(ii)
is included in a covered person’s financial disclosure report required to be filed under
section 101
of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); or
(iii)
is otherwise identified by the Director of the Office of Government Ethics as a potential source of conflict.
; and
(2)
in subsection (b)(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (F)(ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); and
(C)
by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following:
(G)
information indicating whether a Federal award has resulted in the existence of one or more active financial conflicts of interest; and
.
3.
Report
Not later than November 30 of each year, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service of the Department of the Treasury shall submit to Congress a report that includes a comprehensive accounting of all new or ongoing active conflicts of interest, as defined in section 2 of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (
31 U.S.C. 6101
note), as amended by section 2 of this Act.
