1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Apprenticeship Program Clearinghouse Act
.
2.
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, in order to cooperate with the Secretary of Education and promote awareness and adoption of apprenticeship programs, the Secretary of Labor shall—
(1)
enter into an interagency agreement with the Secretary of Education to promote and support integration and alignment of programs under the national apprenticeship system with secondary, postsecondary, and adult education, through the activities described in this Act; and
(2)
submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate, such agreement and any modifications to such agreement.
3.
Best practice development and sharing
(a)
Dissemination
Such interagency agreement shall require that the Secretaries disseminate information on the value of programs under the national apprenticeship system, including relevant placement, retention, and earnings information, labor market data from the local area, and sector forecasts to determine high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand industry sectors or occupations of such programs, to local education and training providers, labor organizations, or joint-labor management organizations (including those representing teachers).
(b)
Clearinghouse
Such agreement shall require the Secretaries to create a clearinghouse of best practices—
(1)
for improving performance and increasing alignment of education and programs under the national apprenticeship system, including career pathways; and
(2)
publicly disseminate information and resources on—
(A)
replicable related instruction and on-the-job learning; and
(B)
how to build an understanding of apprenticeship opportunities available to students.
4.
Data sharing agreement
The Secretaries shall disseminate best practices for the alignment of education records and records of programs under the national apprenticeship system, including information on program participants who enroll in, complete, and receive academic credit for postsecondary coursework while participating in such a program.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Apprenticeship
The term
apprenticeship
or
apprenticeship program
means an apprenticeship—
(A)
registered with the Department of Labor under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.), or a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Department of Labor; and
(B)
that complies with the requirements of subpart A of part 29, and part 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on September 18, 2020).
(2)
National apprenticeship system
The term
national apprenticeship system
means the apprenticeship programs, youth apprenticeship programs, and pre-apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly referred to as the National Apprenticeship Act).
(3)
Recognized postsecondary credential
The term
recognized postsecondary credential
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3102
), except that such term does not include a certificate of completion of an apprenticeship.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor.
6.
Funding
Any funds appropriated under this Act shall only be used for, or provided to, programs under the national apprenticeship system, including any funds awarded for the purposes of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements, or the development, implementation, or administration, of program under the national apprenticeship system.
