1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Entrepreneurial Development COVID–19 Response Act of 2020
.
2.
Waiver of matching funds requirement under the women's business center program
During the 3-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section, the requirement relating to obtaining cash contributions from non-Federal sources under section 29(c)(1) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 656(c)(1)
) is waived for any recipient of assistance under such section 29.
3.
Grants to small business development centers, women’s business centers, and chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall provide grants to small business development centers, women’s business centers, and chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives for the purposes described in subsection (b).
(b)
Use of funds
Grant funds under this section shall be used for the following:
(1)
To purchase laptops, software, and other related technical or electronic equipment to ensure that employees of small business development centers, women’s business centers, and chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives may telework and provide remote customer service in response to a public health emergency declared because of COVID–19.
(2)
To create marketing materials for employees of small business development centers, women’s business centers, and chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives to educate customers on available training and counseling resources relevant to a public health emergency declared because of COVID–19.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2)
Service Corps of Retired Executives
The term
Service Corps of Retired Executives
means the Service Corps of Retired Executives established under section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B)
).
(3)
Small business development center
The term
small business development center
has the meaning given in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(4)
Women’s business center
The term
women’s business center
means a women’s business center as described under section 29 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 656
).
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 to the Administrator to carry out this Act, of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be used for grants to small business development centers.
