1.
Prohibition on including adverse information in certain consumer reports
(a)
In general
Subject to subsection (b), if an event occurred during a shutdown that resulted in the furnishing of an item of adverse information to a consumer reporting agency that such agency would otherwise include in a consumer report of a covered individual, such agency may not include such information in a consumer report of such covered individual during the period beginning on the first day of a shutdown and ending on the date that is 9 months after the day on which the shutdown ends.
(b)
Covered individuals
For a covered individual to be eligible under subsection (a), such covered individual shall submit a certification to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection that the event that resulted in the furnishing of an item of adverse information occurred because of the shutdown.
2.
Government shutdown and security clearance determinations
The head of an agency may not make an adverse determination for purposes of granting or renewing a security clearance or an access determination with respect to any covered person (as that term is defined in section 3002(a)(2) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3343(a)(2)
) based solely on a failure of that covered person to make any payment on a debt due during the period of a shutdown during which that covered person was furloughed or excepted from such furlough as a result of such shutdown.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Consumer reporting agency
The term
consumer reporting agency
has the meaning given in section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (
15 U.S.C. 1681a
).
(2)
Covered individual
The term
covered individual
means—
(A)
an employee of the Federal Government furloughed or excepted from such furlough during any shutdown;
(B)
a Federal contractor who, during any shutdown, is not receiving pay by reason of such shutdown; and
(C)
an owner or employee of a small business concern (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)) that is located within a reasonable distance of a building owned or rented by the Federal Government, as determined by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
(3)
Shutdown
The term
shutdown
means any lapse in appropriations that begins on or after December 22, 2018.
