1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Medical Education Act of 2020
.
2.
Grants for new schools of medicine in underserved areas
Subpart II of part C of title VII of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 749B of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 293m
) the following:
749C.
New schools of medicine in underserved areas
(a)
Grants
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, may award grants to institutions of higher education (including multiple institutions of higher education applying jointly) for the establishment of a school of medicine, or a branch campus of a school of medicine, in an area that—
(1)
is a combined statistical area with a population of over 1,000,000, as of the July 1, 2018, according to the estimate of population by the Bureau of the Census; and
(2)
has no school of medicine based in the area.
(b)
Priority
In selecting grant recipients under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to institutions of higher education that—
(1)
propose to use the grant to establish a school of medicine, or a branch campus of a school of medicine, in a combined statistical area with fewer than 200 actively practicing physicians per 100,000 residents according to the medical board (or boards) of the State (or States) involved; and
(2)
have a curriculum that emphasizes care for diverse and underserved populations.
(c)
Use of funds
The activities for which a grant under this section may be used include—
(1)
planning and constructing a new school of medicine or branch campus described in subsection (a);
(2)
accreditation and planning activities for such new school of medicine or branch campus;
(3)
hiring faculty and other staff to serve at such new school of medicine or branch campus;
(4)
recruitment and enrollment of students at such new school of medicine or branch campus;
(5)
supporting educational programs at such new school of medicine or branch campus; and
(6)
other efforts that the Secretary may determine further the development and expansion of a new school of medicine or branch campus.
(d)
Amount of grant
The amount of a grant under this section shall not exceed $10,000,000 for any fiscal year.
(e)
Matching requirement
The Secretary may not award a grant to an applicant under this section unless such applicant agrees that, with respect to costs to be incurred by the applicant in carrying out activities for which the grant was awarded, the applicant will contribute (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions in cash or in kind, in an amount equal to not less than $1 for each $1 of Federal funds provided through the grant.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
branch campus
means a geographically separate site at least 100 miles from the main campus of a school of medicine where at least one student completes at least 60 percent of the student’s training leading to a degree of doctor of medicine.
(2)
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given to such term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to remain available until expended.
.
