1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act
.
2.
Facilitating the automatic acquisition of citizenship for lawful permanent resident children of military and Federal Government personnel residing abroad
(a)
In general
Section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1431
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the section header and inserting
Children born outside the United States and lawfully admitted for permanent residence; conditions under which citizenship automatically acquired
;
(2)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
(c)
Subsection (a)(3) is deemed satisfied in the case of a child who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States if—
(1)
the child is residing in the legal and physical custody of a citizen parent who is—
(A)
stationed and residing abroad as an employee of the Government of the United States; or
(B)
residing abroad in marital union with an employee of the Government of the United States who is stationed abroad; or
(2)
the child is—
(A)
residing in the legal and physical custody of a citizen parent who is—
(i)
stationed and residing abroad as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States; or
(ii)
authorized to accompany and reside abroad with a member of the Armed Forces of the United States pursuant to the member’s official orders, and is so accompanying and residing abroad with the member in marital union; and
(B)
authorized to accompany such member and reside abroad with the member pursuant to the member's official orders, and is so accompanying and residing with the member.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
The table of contents for the Immigration and Nationality Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 320 and inserting the following:
Sec. 320. Children born outside the United States and lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
conditions under which citizenship automatically acquired.
.
