1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Refer and Equip Veterans And Military Personnel Act
or
REVAMP Act
.
2.
Physical examination and mental health assessment required during the 90-day period before separation from the Armed Forces
Section 1145 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(5)(A), by striking
immediately
and inserting
not more than 90 days
; and
(2)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by inserting
and a mental health assessment
after
physical examination
each place it appears;
(ii)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
and
after the semicolon;
(iii)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
; and
and inserting a period; and
(iv)
by striking subparagraph (C);
(B)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
and mental health assessment
after
physical examination
both places it appears; and
(C)
in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
or mental health assessment
after
physical examination
both places it appears.
3.
Health care planning in the Transition Assistance Program
Section 1142(b)(10) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
health care,
after
educational,
.
4.
Annual report regarding members separating from the Armed Forces
Section 1073b of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Annual report on members separating from the armed forces
(1)
Not later than July 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a report to Congress on data compiled from physical examinations and mental health assessments of members of the armed forces conducted under section 1145(a)(5) of this title. The report shall cover the calendar year preceding the year in which the report is submitted.
(2)
The report under paragraph (1) shall, with respect to members described in section 1145(a)(5) of this title, include the following information:
(A)
A breakdown of members by age, rank, length of service, duties, deployment, contingencies, sex, race, and military department.
(B)
What percentage of members received physical examinations and mental health assessments in such calendar year.
(C)
The most common physical and mental health conditions identified by such physical examinations and mental health assessments.
(D)
The risk factors and co-morbidities associated with the conditions described in subparagraph (C).
(E)
Plans of the Secretary to address the conditions described in subparagraph (C).
(F)
What percentage of members received preseparation counseling under section 1142 of this title.
(G)
Challenges (including wait times and administrative burdens) to providing services to members under the Transition Assistance Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of this title.
(3)
The Secretary shall cooperate with the Secretaries of Veterans Affairs and Labor to improve implementation of the Transition Assistance Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of this title.
(4)
The Secretary shall publish each report under paragraph (1) on a publicly available website of the Department of Defense.
.
