1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Anti-Swatting Act of 2019
.
2.
Transmission of misleading or inaccurate caller ID information with intent to trigger emergency response
Section 227(e)(5) of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 227(e)(5)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
Any person
and inserting
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), any person
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Enhanced penalties for violation with intent to trigger emergency response
(i)
Criminal violation
Any person who violates this subsection with the intent to trigger an emergency response in the absence of circumstances requiring such a response shall—
(I)
be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both; or
(II)
if serious bodily injury results, be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
(ii)
Reimbursement
(I)
In general
The court, in imposing a sentence on a defendant who has been convicted of an offense under clause (i), shall order the defendant to reimburse any entity described in subclause (I), (II), or (III) of clause (iii) that incurs expenses in making or incident to the response described in clause (i) for such expenses.
(II)
Liability
A person ordered to make reimbursement under this clause shall be jointly and severally liable for such expenses with each other person, if any, who is ordered to make reimbursement under this clause for the same expenses.
(III)
Civil judgment
An order of reimbursement under this clause shall, for the purposes of enforcement, be treated as a civil judgment.
(iii)
Emergency response defined
In this subparagraph, the term
emergency response
means any action to protect life, health, or property by—
(I)
a law enforcement agency of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision of a State;
(II)
an agency of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision of a State, or a private not-for-profit organization, that provides fire, rescue, or emergency medical services; or
(III)
a public safety answering point (as defined in section 222).
.
