114 HJ 61 IH: Hire More Heroes Act of 2015
U.S. House of Representatives
2015-07-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
114th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 61
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 23, 2015
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois
introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and Means
, and in addition to the Committee on the
Budget
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
JOINT RESOLUTION
Amending the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exempt employees with health coverage under TRICARE
or the Veterans Administration from being taken into account for purposes
of determining the employers to which the employer mandate applies under
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
1.
Short title
This joint resolution may be cited as the
Hire More Heroes Act of 2015
.
2.
Employees with health coverage under TRICARE or the Veterans Administration not taken into account in determining employers to which the employer mandate applies under Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(a)
In general
Section 4980H(c)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following:
(F)
Exemption for health coverage under TRICARE or the Veterans Administration
Solely for purposes of determining whether an employer is an applicable large employer under this paragraph for any month, an individual shall not be taken into account as an employee for such month if such individual has medical coverage for such month under—
(i)
chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code, including coverage under the TRICARE program, or
(ii)
under a health care program under chapter 17 or 18 of title 38, United States Code, as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2013.
3.
Budgetary effects; statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) scorecards
The budgetary effects of this joint resolution shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (
2 U.S.C. 933(d)
).
