SECTION 1. The Secretary of the  , in accord with  ) of the Endangered Species Act of  , is hereby designated   for purposes of the Convention, and is authorized to communicate with other Parties to the Convention and with the   established by the Convention.

 . 2.   shall consult with appropriate agencies and shall ensure that the performance of its responsibilities, under the Convention and the Endangered Species Act of  , is in accord with the performance by other agencies of those functions vested by law in such agencies.

 . 3. (a) There is hereby established   which, in accord with  ) of the Endangered Species Act of  , is designated   for purposes of the Convention.

(b)   shall be composed of scientifically qualified agency representatives. Each of the following shall designate one such representative from his agency:

(1) The Secretary of the  , whose representative shall be the Chairman.

(2) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(3) The Secretary of  .

(4) The Secretary of  , and  .

(5) The Director of  .

(6) The Chairman of  .

(c) The Secretary of   is invited to designate a representative.

(d) The Secretary of the   shall designate an   Secretary, and shall provide the necessary staff and administrative support for  .

(e) In the discharge of its responsibilities   shall, to the extent practicable, ascertain the views of, and utilize the expertise of, the governmental and non-governmental scientific communities,   agencies responsible for the conservation of wild fauna or flora, humane groups, zoological and botanical institutions, recreational and commercial interests, the conservation community and others as appropriate.

 . 4. The Secretary of the   shall develop and implement, in coordination with  , the Secretary of the  , and the heads of other interested agencies, a system to standardize and simplify the requirements, procedures and other activities related to the issuance of permits for the international and interstate shipment of fauna and flora, including, as appropriate, the parts or products of such fauna and flora.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby designated, in accord with Section 8(e) of the Endangered Species Act of  , to act on behalf of and to represent   in all regards as required by   and Wildlife Preservation in the Western Hemisphere (56 Stat.  ,   981). In the discharge of these responsibilities, the Secretary of the   shall also consult with   and the heads of other agencies with respect to matters relating to or affecting their areas of responsibility.
