SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President a board of 9 members, which shall be known as  . The members of the   shall be appointed by the President, who shall also designate its Chairman.

 . 2. The Board, under such regulations as it may prescribe, shall examine the cases of persons who apply for Executive clemency prior to  , and who (i) have been convicted of violating Section 12 or 6(j) of   (50 App. U.S.C. § 462), or of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to that section, for acts committed    , inclusive, or (ii) have received punitive or undesirable discharges as a consequence of violations of Article 85, 86 or 87 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. §§ 885, 886, 887) that occurred  , inclusive, or are serving sentences of confinement for such violations. The   will only consider the cases of   violators who were convicted of unlawfully failing (i) to register or register on time, (ii) to keep the local board informed of their current address, (iii) to report for or submit to preinduction or induction examination, (iv) to report for or submit to induction itself, or (v) to report for or submit to, or complete service under Section 6 (j) of such Act. However, the   will not consider the cases of individuals who are precluded from re-entering   under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a) (22) or other law.

 . 3. The   shall report to the President its findings and recommendations as to whether Executive clemency should be granted or denied in any case. If clemency is recommended, the   shall also recommend the form that such clemency should take, including clemency conditioned upon a period of alternative service in the national interest. In the case of an individual discharged from the armed forces with a punitive or undesirable discharge, the   may recommend to the President that a clemency discharge be substituted for a punitive or undesirable discharge. Determination of any period of alternate service shall be in accord with the Proclamation announcing a program for the return of   era draft evaders and military deserters.

 . 4. The Board shall give priority consideration to those applicants who are presently confined and have been convicted only of an offense set forth in section 2 of this order, and who have no outstanding criminal charges.

 . 5. Each member of the  , except any member who then receives other compensation from  , may receive compensation for   he or she is engaged upon the work of the Board at not to exceed the   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for persons and positions in GS-18, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ), and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ) for persons in the government service employed intermittently.

 . 6. Necessary expenses of the   may be paid from   of the President or from such other funds as may be available.

 . 7. Necessary administrative services and support may be provided the   by   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 8. All departments and agencies in the   branch are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   in its work, and to furnish the   all appropriate information and assistance, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 9. The   shall submit its final recommendations to the President not  , at which time it shall cease to exist.
