SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

 . 2. The   shall consist of the Secretary of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , and the Executive Director of  . The Chairman of   of   is invited to attend meetings of the  .

 . 3.   shall provide advice to the President concerning all aspects of national and international economic policy, will oversee the formulation, coordination, and implementation of all economic policy of  , and will serve as the focal point for economic policy decision-making. The Chairman of the   shall act as the principal spokesman for   on matters of economic policy.

 . 4. (a) There is hereby established   of the Board.   shall consist of the Secretary of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, the Director of  , the Chairman of  , and the Executive Director of  . The Chairman of   of   is invited to attend meetings of  .

(b)   shall meet   to consider matters involving responsibilities of the  .

 . 5. The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs shall be the Executive Director of the   and of  , and, as such, shall be responsible for coordinating the implementation of economic policy and providing liaison with the   staff and with other   activities.

 . 6. (a) The Secretary of the   shall be a member of   and he its Chairman. The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs shall be a member of the   and be its Deputy Chairman.

(b) The Secretary of the   shall be the Chairman of  . The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs shall be a member of that   and be its Deputy Chairman.

(c) Section 1(b) of Executive Order No.  , as amended (prescribing the composition of  ), is further amended by inserting after "the Secretary of the  , who shall be Chairman of the  ," the following "the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, who shall be Deputy Chairman of the  ,".

(d) (1) Section 1 (1) of Executive Order No.   (prescribing the composition of   on East-West Trade Policy) is amended to read as follows:

"(1) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs."

(2) Section 2 of that   is amended to read as follows:

"Sec. 2. The Secretary of the   shall be the Chairman of the  , and the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs shall be its Deputy Chairman."

 . 7. All departments and agencies shall cooperate with the  , including   thereof, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide it with such assistance and information as the Chairman or the Executive Director of the   may request.
