1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act
.
2.
Limitations on Confucius Institutes’ host schools
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Chinese entity of concern
The term
Chinese entity of concern
means any university or college in the People’s Republic of China that—
(A)
is involved in the implementation of military-civil fusion;
(B)
participates in the Chinese defense industrial base;
(C)
is affiliated with the Chinese State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for the National Defense;
(D)
receives funding from any organization subordinate to the Central Military Commission of the Chinese Communist Party; or
(E)
provides support to any security, defense, police, or intelligence organization of the Government of the People’s Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party.
(2)
Confucius Institute
The term
Confucius Institute
means a cultural institute funded by the Government of the People’s Republic of China.
(3)
Institution
The term
institution
has the meaning given the term
institution of higher education
in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
(4)
Relationship
The term
relationship
means, with respect to an institution, any contract awarded, agreement entered into, or any in-kind donation or gift, received from a Confucius Institute or Chinese entity of concern.
(b)
Restrictions on institutions of higher education
(1)
In general
Beginning the first October 1 occurring after the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that an institution that has a relationship with a Confucius Institute or a Chinese entity of concern is ineligible to receive any Science and Technology or Research and Development funds from the Department of Homeland Security.
(2)
Eligibility after termination
An institution described in paragraph (1) may receive Science and Technology or Research and Development funds from the Department of Homeland Security if the institution terminates the relationship between the institution and the Confucius Institute or Chinese entity of concern with which the institution has a relationship.
