1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Defund the Ministry of Truth Act of 2022
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Federal Government is not the sole arbiter of truth in a free society.
(2)
Efforts by the Federal Government to censor dissenting voices is a violation of the First Amendment rights of the American people.
(3)
Efforts by the Federal Government to label or categorize speech as misinformation, disinformation, or malinformation does not lessen or vitiate the First Amendment rights of the American people.
(4)
The Federal Government is itself prolific in the dissemination of misinformation, disinformation, and malinformation.
(5)
George Orwell’s novel,
1984
, which was originally published in 1949, was a cautionary tale and a warning to future generations and was not intended to be an instruction manual for government repression.
3.
Prohibition against Federal funding for the Disinformation Governance Board
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funding may be expended for the establishment or operation of the Department of Homeland Security Disinformation Governance Board or any successor entity to the Disinformation Governance Board.
4.
Conforming amendment to the Homeland Security Act of 2002
Section 2202(i) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 652(i)
) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading by inserting
provisions
after
Savings
;
(2)
by striking
may be construed as affecting
and inserting the following:
may be construed as—
(1)
affecting
;
(3)
by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
authorizing the establishment of any misinformation, disinformation, or malinformation working group, disinformation governance board, or any similar entity within the Department of Homeland Security (or any component thereof) unless such entity is explicitly authorized by an Act of Congress that is enacted after the date of the enactment of the
Defund the Ministry of Truth Act of 2022
.
.
