1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Pro Bono Corps Act of 2021
.
2.
Pilot program to support medical residency and fellowship programs that assist veterans
(a)
Pilot program required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall commence a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing assistance to eligible recipients to establish or maintain programs that assist veterans applying for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, in substantiating their claims with independent medical examinations and opinions.
(b)
Eligible recipients
For purposes of the pilot program required by subsection (a), an eligible recipient is an entity that—
(1)
is administering a medical residency or medical fellowship program in the United States or a territory of the United States; and
(2)
is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency.
(c)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program required by subsection (a) during the five-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
(d)
Grants
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program required by subsection (a) through the award of grants to eligible recipients to establish or maintain programs as described in such subsection.
(e)
Competitive process
The Secretary shall establish a competitive process for the award of the grants under the pilot program required by subsection (a).
(f)
Selection of grant recipients
In awarding grants under the pilot program required by subsection (a), the Secretary may give preference to an eligible recipient located in a rural area or an underserved area.
(g)
Use of grant funds
(1)
In general
Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under the pilot program required by subsection (a) shall use the grant to establish or maintain a program as described in such subsection in which medical residents or fellows provide pro bono medical examinations and opinions for the purposes described in such subsection.
(2)
Requirements
For each program established or maintained with amounts from a grant under the pilot program—
(A)
medical residents and fellows shall practice under the supervision of attending physicians in accordance with such supervisory requirements as the Secretary shall prescribe in regulations;
(B)
each attending physician providing such supervision shall be in good standing with the medical licensing board of each State in which the attending physician is licensed;
(C)
each medical resident and fellow shall be in good standing with—
(i)
the program established or maintained with amounts from the grant; and
(ii)
the medical licensing board of each State in which the resident or fellow is licensed;
(D)
each medical resident, fellow, and attending physician shall undergo training that is substantially the same as or equivalent to training required for medical examiners of the Veterans Health Administration or contractors of the Department who conduct medical examinations for purposes of supporting claims for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code;
(E)
medical residents shall be in their second year or later of a medical residency;
(F)
the program shall not charge veterans fees for the services provided;
(G)
the program shall screen individual applicants who are veterans using such income eligibility criteria as the Secretary shall prescribe in regulations;
(H)
the recipient of the grant shall, on an annual basis, provide the Secretary with an accounting of how the recipient has used and allocated grant funds; and
(I)
the program shall meet such other criteria as the Secretary may prescribe in regulations.
(h)
Forms
The Secretary shall provide to each recipient of a grant under the pilot program required by subsection (a) all current disability benefits questionnaire forms of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(i)
Outreach
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in partnership with veterans service organizations, implement an informative outreach program for veterans regarding the availability of services from programs established or maintained under the pilot program required by subsection (a).
(j)
Rule of construction
(1)
Voluntary participation
Participation by any veteran in the pilot program required by subsection (a) shall be voluntary.
(2)
Right to medical examination
Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate or replace the right of a veteran to a medical examination provided by an employee or contractor of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 5103A(d) of title 38, United States Code.
(k)
Annual reports
(1)
In general
Not less frequently than once each year for the duration of the pilot program required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
(2)
Contents
To the extent feasible, each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
The average time to complete medical examinations and opinions under the pilot program during the period covered by the report.
(B)
The number of medical examinations and opinions completed under the pilot program during such period.
(C)
The number of veterans served under the pilot program during such period.
(D)
The number of cases during such period in which personnel of the Veterans Benefits Administration or the Board of Veterans’ Appeals found a medical examination or opinion under the pilot program to be inadequate for purposes of adjudicating a claim for compensation under
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code.
(E)
An analysis by the Secretary regarding the operational effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the services provided under the pilot program.
(F)
Such suggestions as the Secretary may have for legislative or administrative action to improve the pilot program.
(l)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Rural area
The term
rural area
means an area classified as
rural
by the Bureau of the Census.
(2)
Underserved area
The term
underserved area
means an area that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A)
The area has a high proportion of individuals who have limited access to health care.
(B)
The area has a high proportion of individuals who have limited access to legal services.
(3)
Veterans service organization
The term
veterans service organization
means an organization recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
