1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DOD Energy Strategy Act of 2022
.
2.
Additional special considerations for developing and implementing the energy performance goals and energy performance master plan of the Department of Defense
Section 2911(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(14)
The reliability and security of energy resources in the event of a military conflict.
(15)
The value of resourcing energy from allies of the United States in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other major allies of the United States.
.
3.
Report on feasibility of terminating energy procurement from foreign entities of concern
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility and advisability of terminating energy procurement by the Department of Defense from foreign entities of concern.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the reliance by the Department of Defense on foreign entities of concern for the procurement of energy.
(2)
An identification of the number of energy contracts in force between the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency and a foreign entity of concern or an entity headquartered in a country that is a foreign entity of concern.
(3)
Such proposals as the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment may have for divestment of resourcing of energy for the Department of Defense from entities described in subparagraph (B) and reconfiguring such resourcing instead from allies of the United States in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other major allies of the United States.
(c)
Foreign entity of concern defined
In this section, the term
foreign entity of concern
has the meaning given that term in section 9901 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
15 U.S.C. 4651
).
