1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Food and Energy Security Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Agriculture or closely related business
The term
agriculture or closely related business
means a for-profit or not-for-profit entity that is involved in the production of agriculture products or livestock or involved in the supply chain of an entity involved in the production of agriculture products or livestock.
(2)
Energy or closely related business
The term
energy or closely related business
means a for-profit or not-for-profit entity that is involved in the production, development, or marketing of electricity, fuel (including biofuels), or other related products or involved in the supply chain of an entity involved in the production, development, or marketing of electricity, fuel (including biofuels), or other related products.
(3)
Federal regulator
The term
Federal regulator
means—
(A)
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(B)
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(C)
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(D)
the Financial Stability Oversight Council;
(E)
the National Credit Union Administration;
(F)
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection;
(G)
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and
(H)
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
3.
Regulations and guidance
(a)
In general
As part of any public notice of a proposed regulation or guidance and final regulation or guidance that could affect the extension of capital to or investments in an agriculture or closely related business or an energy or closely related business, a Federal regulator shall provide a detailed analysis of the estimated impact the regulation or guidance would have on food prices, electricity prices, and fuel prices, as applicable, including a description of the methodology and variables used to arrive at the estimates.
(b)
Contents
The estimated impacts required under subsection (a) shall include how the proposed regulation or guidance or final regulation or guidance of the Federal regulator would, as applicable, affect—
(1)
food prices (broken down by subcategories as listed in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as relevant) over 1 year, 3 years, 5 years, and 10 years;
(2)
electricity prices (broken down by subcategories as listed in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as relevant) over 1 year, 3 years, 5 years, and 10 years; and
(3)
fuel prices (broken down by subcategories as listed in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as relevant) over 1 year, 3 years, 5 years, and 10 years.
4.
Prohibition
A Federal regulator shall not implement any regulation or guidance that could affect, directly or indirectly, the extension of capital to or investments in an agriculture or closely related business or an energy or closely related business if—
(1)
the analysis of estimated impacts under section 3 estimate that implementation of the regulation or guidance would result in an increase in food prices, electricity prices, or fuel prices; and
(2)
the annualized rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers most recently published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics is 4.5 percent or greater.
5.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be construed as affecting any regulation or guidance of a Federal regulator that was implemented before January 1, 2022.
