1.
Reimposition of sanctions with respect to the FARC
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall—
(1)
designate the FARC as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
); and
(2)
impose, with respect to FARC and any foreign person the President determines is an official, agent, or affiliate of FARC, the sanctions applicable with respect to a foreign person pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
(b)
Determination required
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the President makes the designation required by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and imposes the sanctions required by paragraph (2) of that subsection, the President shall—
(A)
submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a determination regarding whether the foreign persons specified in paragraph (2) are officials, agents, or affiliates of the FARC; and
(B)
impose the sanctions described in subsection (a)(2) with respect to each such person the President determines is an official, agent, or affiliate of the FARC.
(2)
Foreign persons specified
The foreign persons specified in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
Jose Benito Cabrera (also known as Jose Benito Cabrera Cuevas, El Mono Fabian, and Fabian Ramirez), born either July 6, 1963, or July 5, 1965, in El Paujil, Caqueta, Colombia.
(B)
Erasmo Traslavina Benavides (also known as Ismardo Murcia Lozada, Isnardo Murcia Lozada, and Jimmy Guerrero), born June 19, 1958, in Guacamayo, Santander, Colombia.
(C)
Emiro del Carmen Ropero Suarez (also known as Ruben Zamora), born September 2, 1962, in Municipio de Nueva Granada, Norte de Santander, Colombia.
(D)
Guillermo Enrique Torres Cueter (also known as Julian Conrado), born August 17, 1954, in Turbaco, Bolivar, Colombia.
(E)
Rodrigo Granda Escobar (also known as Arturo Campos, Gallopinto, and Ricardo Gonzalez), born April 9, 1949, in Frontino, Antioquia, Colombia.
(F)
Piedad Esneda Córdoba Ruiz, born January 25, 1955, in Colombia.
(G)
Sandra Ramirez Lobo Silva (also known as Sandra Ramirez and Griselda Lobo), born in 1965 in Colombia.
(c)
Limitation on revocation
The President may not revoke the designation under subsection (a)(1), or sanctions imposed with respect to a foreign person under subsection (a)(2) or (b), until the date that is 10 years after the date of the designation or the imposition of such sanctions, as the case may be.
(d)
FARC defined
In this section, the term
FARC
means the group known as the FARC, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, or any other alias.
