1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transportation Security Administration 20th Anniversary Review Act
.
2.
20th anniversary review of Transportation Security Administration
(a)
In general
The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall enter into an arrangement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct a comprehensive review of the missions, capabilities, and performance of the Transportation Security Administration during the 20 years since its establishment.
(b)
Elements
The review required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the Transportation Security Administration in executing the missions required by statute.
(2)
An assessment of the organizational structure of the Transportation Security Administration and recommendations for improving that structure, including any benefits of separating the operations and compliance missions of the Transportation Security Administration.
(3)
An assessment of whether the Transportation Security Administration should retain its current missions and, if necessary, recommendations on legislative changes needed to streamline those missions.
(4)
An assessment of whether the Transportation Security Administration is maximizing the use of flexibilities provided by statute with respect to human capital.
(5)
If the Transportation Security Administration is not maximizing the use of those flexibilities, recommendations for improving the use of those flexibilities administratively.
(6)
An assessment of efforts of the Transportation Security Administration to retain transportation security officers, an assessment of whether those efforts are effective, and recommendations with respect to how the Transportation Security Administration could improve those efforts based on the experiences of other large Federal employers with a significant entry-level workforce.
(7)
An assessment of whether the Transportation Security Administration deployed the number of transportation security officers identified by its resource allocation plan.
(8)
An assessment of the utilization by the Transportation Security Administration of the Screening Partnership Program under section 44920 of title 49, United States Code, and recommendations for expanding that program.
(9)
A comparative analysis of screening conducted under the Screening Partnership Program and screening conducted by employees of the Transportation Security Administration, including an analysis of—
(A)
cost, performance (detection), staffing, and attrition; and
(B)
whether the Transportation Security Administration intentionally disadvantages or causes difficulties for airports that use the Screening Partnership Program or providers of screening services under the Program.
(10)
An assessment of the user-pay model for funding for the Transportation Security Administration, recommendations with respect to how to reimplement that model, and an assessment of—
(A)
whether the Transportation Security Administration is appropriately using the Aviation Security Capital Fund established under section 44923(h) of title 49, United States Code; and
(B)
the potential cost savings if the Transportation Security Administration fully reimbursed airports for purchasing and deploying screening technology.
(11)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the Transportation Security Administration in implementing the Registered Traveler Program and recommendations for modernization of the program for full integration with the biometric technology of the Transportation Security Administration.
(12)
An assessment of the capabilities of the Transportation Security Administration to respond to homeland security intelligence and recommendations for improving those capabilities.
(13)
A review of the threats to transportation identified by the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
)).
(14)
An assessment of and recommendations with respect to the use by the Transportation Security Administration of outcome-oriented performance measures when procuring transportation security technology.
(15)
Recommendations with respect to how the Transportation Security Administration could diversify the transportation security industrial base.
(16)
An assessment of and recommendations with respect to how the Transportation Security Administration can facilitate an expansion of transportation security norms with international partners and where appropriate reduce the need for redundant screening.
(17)
An assessment of the role of the Transportation Security Administration as a regulator and recommendations with respect to how the Transportation Security Administration could reduce regulatory burdens without sacrificing security.
(18)
An assessment of how the Transportation Security Administration is working with airport operators to expand capacity at constrained checkpoints, including whether the Transportation Security Administration is accurately and consistently measuring wait times at individual checkpoints and across the system.
(19)
An assessment of the efficacy of the 5-year technology plan of the Transportation Security Administration.
(20)
An assessment of the acquisition practices used by the Transportation Security Administration and the effectiveness of those practices in achieving rapid capability delivery.
(c)
Report to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the federally funded research and development center pursuant to the review conducted under subsection (a).
(2)
Form of report
(A)
In general
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(B)
Inclusions in classified annex
Findings relating to the matters described in paragraphs (12) and (13) of subsection (b) shall be included in the classified annex.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator $2,000,000 to carry out this section.
