1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Supreme Court Leakers Act of 2022
.
2.
Obstruction of Supreme Court deliberations
(a)
In general
Chapter 73
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1522.
Obstruction of Supreme Court deliberations
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
confidential information
includes—
(1)
internal notes on cases heard by the Supreme Court of the United States;
(2)
any communication between the Chief Justice of the United States or an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States and an employee or officer of the Supreme Court on a matter pending before the Supreme Court;
(3)
a communication between officers and employees of the Supreme Court of the United States on a matter pending before the Supreme Court;
(4)
a draft opinion or a final opinion prior to the date on which such opinion is released to the public;
(5)
personal information of the Chief Justice of the United States or an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States that is not otherwise legally available to the public; and
(6)
any other information designated to be confidential by the Chief Justice of the United States prior to the date on which a violation of subsection (b) occurs.
(b)
Prohibition
It shall be unlawful for any person, while serving as an officer or employee of the Supreme Court, to knowingly publish, divulge, disclose, or make known in any manner or to any extent not authorized by law any confidential information coming to that officer or employee in the course of the employment or official duties of that officer or employee.
(c)
Criminal penalties
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), any individual who violates, or conspires to violate, subsection (b) shall be imprisoned not more than 10 years and fined under this title.
(2)
Internal notes
Any individual who violates, or conspires to violate, subsection (a) with confidential information described in subsection (a)(1) shall be fined $10,000.
.
(b)
Civil forfeiture
Section 981(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(J)
Any property, real or personal, involved in a violation or attempted violation, or which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to a violation, of section 1522.
.
(c)
Table of contents
The table of sections for
chapter 73
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
1522. Obstruction of Supreme Court deliberations.
.
