1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Telecommunications Opportunities for Workers Engaging in Real Infrastructure Deployment Act of 2019
or the
TOWER Infrastructure Deployment Act of 2019
.
2.
Telecommunications workforce development advisory council
Part I of title III of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 301
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
344.
Telecommunications workforce development advisory council
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
Advisory Council
means the Telecommunications Workforce Development Advisory Council established under subsection (b);
(2)
the term
communications facility installation
has the meaning given the term in section 6409(d) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1455(d)
); and
(3)
the term
minority institution
has the meaning given the term in section 365 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067k
).
(b)
Establishment
There is established within the Commission a Telecommunications Workforce Development Advisory Council.
(c)
Duties
The Advisory Council shall advise the Commission on, and develop recommendations with respect to—
(1)
the needs of the workforce in the communications industry to promote the deployment of communications facility installations;
(2)
ways to encourage participation in industry-led workforce development programs; and
(3)
ways to improve workforce development in the communications industry.
(d)
Members
(1)
Composition of Council
The Advisory Council shall be composed of members appointed under paragraph (2) and shall include not less than 1 member representing each of the following:
(A)
The Telecommunications Industry Registered Apprenticeship Program.
(B)
The National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
(C)
A State agency.
(D)
A local agency.
(E)
A Tribal agency.
(F)
The communications industry.
(G)
A minority institution.
(2)
Initial appointments
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Chairman of the Commission shall appoint members to serve on the Advisory Council.
(3)
Term
Each member appointed under paragraph (2) shall serve on the Advisory Council until the date on which the Advisory Council terminates under subsection (f).
(4)
Chair
The Chairman of the Commission shall designate a member of the Advisory Council to serve as Chair of the Advisory Council.
(5)
Vacancy
A vacancy in the Advisory Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(6)
Compensation
The members of the Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.
(e)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Advisory Council shall submit a report containing the recommendations developed under subsection (c) to—
(1)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
(2)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(3)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(4)
the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives.
(f)
Termination of Advisory Council
Notwithstanding
section 14
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the Advisory Council shall terminate on March 1, 2024.
.
