1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Corps of Engineers Flood Control Civilian Advisory Council Act
.
2.
Corps of Engineers Flood Control
(a)
Advisory Council
(1)
In general
There is established a Corps of Engineers Flood Control Civilian Advisory Council (referred to in this section as the
Advisory Council
).
(2)
Membership
(A)
In general
The Advisory Council shall be composed of—
(i)
2 members from each of—
(I)
the State of Montana;
(II)
the State of North Dakota;
(III)
the State of South Dakota;
(IV)
the State of Nebraska;
(V)
the State of Iowa;
(VI)
the State of Kansas; and
(VII)
the State of Missouri; and
(ii)
representatives of—
(I)
the agriculture industry;
(II)
the river commerce industry; and
(III)
other related industries, as determined by the President.
(B)
Selection
Members of the Advisory Council shall be appointed by the President, based on the recommendations of the Senators of the States described in subparagraph (A)(i).
(C)
Deadline
Members of the Advisory Council shall be appointed by not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(3)
Meeting
The first meeting of the Advisory Council shall be not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(4)
Duties
The Advisory Council shall—
(A)
develop recommendations on how to best revise the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoir System Master Water Control Manual to prioritize flood control and navigation;
(B)
submit to the Secretary of the Army, the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes those recommendations; and
(C)
make the report under subparagraph (B) publicly available.
(5)
Compensation
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the members of the Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.
(B)
Travel expenses
The members of the Advisory Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Advisory Council.
(C)
Treatment
The members of the Advisory Council shall not be considered to be Federal employees.
(6)
No new funds
No new funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection.
(7)
Termination
The Advisory Council shall terminate on the date that is 1 year after the date of the first meeting of the Advisory Council under paragraph (3).
(b)
Revision
To the maximum extent practicable and after considering the recommendations of the Advisory Council under subsection (a)(4), the Chief of Engineers shall revise the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoir System Master Water Control Manual to prioritize flood control and navigation.
