1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
2.
Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents
(a)
Divisions
This Act is organized into six divisions as follows:
(1)
Division A—Department of Defense Authorizations.
(2)
Division B—Military Construction Authorizations.
(3)
Division C—Department of Energy National Security Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
(4)
Division D—Funding Tables.
(5)
Division E—Additional Provisions.
(6)
Division F—Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021.
(b)
Table of contents
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
DIVISION A—Department of Defense Authorizations
TITLE I—Procurement
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Army programs
Sec. 111. Integrated air and missile defense assessment.
Sec. 112. Report and limitation on Integrated Visual Augmentation System acquisition.
Sec. 113. Modifications to requirement for an interim cruise missile defense capability.
Subtitle C—Navy programs
Sec. 121. Contract authority for Columbia-class submarine program.
Sec. 122. Limitation on Navy medium and large unmanned surface vessels.
Sec. 123. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 124. Procurement authorities for certain amphibious shipbuilding programs.
Sec. 125. Fighter force structure acquisition strategy.
Sec. 126. Treatment of systems added by Congress in future President’s budget requests.
Sec. 127. Report on carrier wing composition.
Sec. 128. Report on strategy to use ALQ–249 Next Generation Jammer to ensure full spectrum electromagnetic superiority.
Subtitle D—Air Force programs
Sec. 141. Economic order quantity contracting authority for F–35 joint strike fighter program.
Sec. 142. Minimum aircraft levels for major mission areas.
Sec. 143. Minimum operational squadron level.
Sec. 144. Minimum Air Force bomber aircraft level.
Sec. 145. F–35 gun system.
Sec. 146. Prohibition on funding for Close Air Support Integration Group.
Sec. 147. Limitation on divestment of KC–10 and KC–135 aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on retirement of U–2 and RQ–4 aircraft.
Sec. 149. Limitation on divestment of F–15C aircraft in the European theater.
Sec. 150. Air base defense development and acquisition strategy.
Sec. 151. Required solution for KC–46 aircraft remote visual system limitations.
Sec. 152. Analysis of requirements and Advanced Battle Management System capabilities.
Sec. 153. Studies on measures to assess cost-per-effect for key mission areas.
Sec. 154. Plan for operational test and utility evaluation of systems for Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft Technology program.
Sec. 155. Prohibition on retirement or divestment of A–10 aircraft.
Subtitle E—Defense-wide, joint, and multiservice matters
Sec. 171. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force: annual plan and certification.
Sec. 172. Authority to use F–35 aircraft withheld from delivery to Government of Turkey.
Sec. 173. Transfer from Commander of United States Strategic Command to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of responsibilities and functions relating to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
Sec. 174. Cryptographic modernization schedules.
Sec. 175. Prohibition on purchase of armed overwatch aircraft.
Sec. 176. Special operations armed overwatch.
Sec. 177. Autonomic Logistics Information System redesign strategy.
Sec. 178. Contract aviation services in a country or in airspace in which a Special Federal Aviation Regulation applies.
Sec. 179. F–35 aircraft munitions.
Sec. 180. Airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance acquisition roadmap for United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 181. Requirement to accelerate the fielding and development of counter unmanned aerial systems across the joint force.
Sec. 182. Joint All Domain Command and Control requirements.
TITLE II—Research, development, test, and evaluation
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Program requirements, restrictions, and limitations
Sec. 211. Designation and activities of senior officials for critical technology areas supportive of the National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 212. Governance of fifth-generation wireless networking in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 213. Application of artificial intelligence to the defense reform pillar of the National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 214. Extension of authorities to enhance innovation at Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 215. Updates to Defense Quantum Information Science and Technology Research and Development program.
Sec. 216. Program of part-time and term employment at Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratories of faculty and students from institutions of higher education.
Sec. 217. Improvements to Technology and National Security Fellowship of Department of Defense.
Sec. 218. Department of Defense research, development, and deployment of technology to support water sustainment.
Sec. 219. Development and testing of hypersonic capabilities.
Sec. 220. Disclosure requirements for recipients of Department of Defense research and development grants.
Subtitle C—Plans, reports, and other matters
Sec. 231. Assessment on United States national security emerging biotechnology efforts and capabilities and comparison with adversaries.
Sec. 232. Independent comparative analysis of efforts by China and the United States to recruit and retain researchers in national security-related fields.
Sec. 233. Department of Defense demonstration of virtualized radio access network and massive multiple input multiple output radio arrays for fifth generation wireless networking.
Sec. 234. Independent technical review of Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48.
Sec. 235. Report on micro nuclear reactor programs.
Sec. 236. Modification to Test Resource Management Center strategic plan reporting cycle and contents.
Sec. 237. Limitation on contract awards for certain unmanned vessels.
Sec. 238. Documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management System.
Sec. 239. Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery Test special purpose adjunct to address computational thinking.
Sec. 240. Report on use of testing facilities to research and develop hypersonic technology.
Sec. 241. Study and plan on the use of additive manufacturing and three-dimensional bioprinting in support of the warfighter.
Sec. 242. Element in annual reports on cyber science and technology activities on work with academic consortia on high priority cybersecurity research activities in Department of Defense capabilities.
TITLE III—Operation and maintenance
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Energy and environment
Sec. 311. Modifications and technical corrections to ensure restoration of contamination by perfluorooctane sulfonate and perfluorooctanoic acid.
Sec. 312. Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program technical edits and clarification.
Sec. 313. Survey and market research of technologies for phase out by Department of Defense of use of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam.
Sec. 314. Modification of authority to carry out military installation resilience projects.
Sec. 315. Native American Indian lands environmental mitigation program.
Sec. 316. Energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations.
Sec. 317. Modification to availability of energy cost savings for Department of Defense.
Sec. 318. Long-duration demonstration initiative and joint program.
Sec. 319. Pilot program on alternative fuel vehicle purchasing.
Sec. 320. Extension of real-time sound monitoring at Navy installations where tactical fighter aircraft operate.
Sec. 321. Study on impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of pollution or debris from the Tijuana River on personnel, activities, and installations of Department of Defense.
Sec. 322. Increase in funding for study by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance contamination in drinking water.
Subtitle C—Logistics and sustainment
Sec. 331. Repeal of statutory requirement for notification to Director of Defense Logistics Agency three years prior to implementing changes to any uniform or uniform component.
Sec. 332. Clarification of limitation on length of overseas forward deployment of currently deployed naval vessels.
Subtitle D—Reports
Sec. 351. Report on impact of permafrost thaw on infrastructure, facilities, and operations of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 352. Plans and reports on emergency response training for military installations.
Sec. 353. Report on implementation by Department of Defense of requirements relating to renewable fuel pumps.
Sec. 354. Report on effects of extreme weather on Department of Defense.
Subtitle E—Other matters
Sec. 371. Prohibition on divestiture of manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft operated by United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 372. Information on overseas construction projects in support of contingency operations using funds for operation and maintenance.
Sec. 373. Provision of protection to the National Museum of the Marine Corps, the National Museum of the United States Army, the National Museum of the United States Navy, and the National Museum of the United States Air Force.
Sec. 374. Inapplicability of congressional notification and dollar limitation requirements for advance billings for certain background investigations.
Sec. 375. Repeal of sunset for minimum annual purchase amount for carriers participating in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet.
Sec. 376. Improvement of the Operational Energy Capability Improvement Fund of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 377. Commission on the naming of items of the Department of Defense that commemorate the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America.
Sec. 378. Modifications to review of proposed actions by Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Clearinghouse.
Sec. 379. Adjustment in availability of appropriations for unusual cost overruns and for changes in scope of work.
Sec. 380. Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement security and emergency response recommendations relating to active shooter or terrorist attacks on installations of Department of Defense.
Sec. 381. Clarification of food ingredient requirements for food or beverages provided by the Department of Defense.
TITLE IV—Military Personnel Authorizations
Subtitle A—Active Forces
Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. End strength level matters.
Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Separate authorization by Congress of minimum end strengths for non-temporary military technicians (dual status) and maximum end strengths for temporary military technicians (dual status).
Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 421. Military personnel.
TITLE V—Military Personnel Policy
Subtitle A—Officer Personnel Policy
Sec. 501. Repeal of codified specification of authorized strengths of certain commissioned officers on active duty.
Sec. 502. Temporary expansion of availability of enhanced constructive service credit in a particular career field upon original appointment as a commissioned officer.
Sec. 503. Requirement for promotion selection board recommendation of higher placement on promotion list of officers of particular merit.
Sec. 504. Special selection review boards for review of promotion of officers subject to adverse information identified after recommendation for promotion and related matters.
Sec. 505. Number of opportunities for consideration for promotion under alternative promotion authority.
Sec. 506. Mandatory retirement for age.
Sec. 507. Clarifying and improving restatement of rules on the retired grade of commissioned officers.
Sec. 508. Repeal of authority for original appointment of regular Navy officers designated for engineering duty, aeronautical engineering duty, and special duty.
Subtitle B—Reserve Component Management
Sec. 511. Exclusion of certain reserve general and flag officers on active duty from limitations on authorized strengths.
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
Sec. 516. Increased access to potential recruits.
Sec. 517. Temporary authority to order retired members to active duty in high-demand, low-density assignments during war or national emergency.
Sec. 518. Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214) matters.
Sec. 519. Evaluation of barriers to minority participation in certain units of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 520. Reports on diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces.
Subtitle D—Military Justice and Related Matters
PART I—Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault and Related Matters
Sec. 521. Modification of time required for expedited decisions in connection with applications for change of station or unit transfer of members who are victims of sexual assault or related offenses.
Sec. 522. Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 523. Report on ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform duties.
Sec. 524. Briefing on Special Victims’ Counsel program.
Sec. 525. Accountability of leadership of the Department of Defense for discharging the sexual harassment policies and programs of the Department.
Sec. 526. Safe-to-report policy applicable across the Armed Forces.
Sec. 527. Additional bases for provision of advice by the Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 528. Additional matters for reports of the Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 529. Policy on separation of victim and accused at military service academies and degree-granting military educational institutions.
Sec. 530. Briefing on placement of members of the Armed Forces in academic status who are victims of sexual assault onto Non-Rated Periods.
PART II—Other Military Justice Matters
Sec. 531. Right to notice of victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice regarding certain post-trial motions, filings, and hearings.
Sec. 532. Consideration of the evidence by Courts of Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 533. Preservation of records of the military justice system.
Sec. 534. Comptroller General of the United States report on implementation by the Armed Forces of recent GAO recommendations and statutory requirements on assessment of racial, ethnic, and gender disparities in the military justice system.
Sec. 535. Briefing on mental health support for vicarious trauma for certain personnel in the military justice system.
Sec. 536. Guardian ad litem program for minor dependents of members of the Armed Forces.
Subtitle E—Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience
Sec. 541. Training on religious accommodation for members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 542. Additional elements with 2021 certifications on the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy.
Sec. 543. Report on standardization and potential merger of law enforcement training for military and civilian personnel across the Department of Defense.
Sec. 544. Quarterly reports on implementation of recommendations of the Comprehensive Review of Special Operations Forces Culture and Ethics.
Sec. 545. Information on nominations and applications for military service academies.
Sec. 546. Pilot programs in connection with Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at Historically Black Colleges and Universities and minority institutions.
Sec. 547. Expansion of Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Program.
Sec. 548. Department of Defense STARBASE Program.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
Sec. 551. Award or presentation of decorations favorably recommended following determination on merits of proposals for decorations not previously submitted in a timely fashion.
Sec. 552. Honorary promotion matters.
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART I—Defense Dependents' Education Matters
Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 563. Staffing of Department of Defense Education Activity schools to maintain maximum student-to-teacher ratios.
Sec. 564. Matters in connection with free appropriate public education for dependents of members of the Armed Forces with special needs.
Sec. 565. Pilot program on expanded eligibility for Department of Defense Education Activity Virtual High School program.
Sec. 566. Pilot program on expansion of eligibility for enrollment at domestic dependent elementary and secondary schools.
Sec. 567. Comptroller General of the United States report on the structural condition of Department of Defense Education Activity schools.
PART II—Military Family Readiness Matters
Sec. 571. Responsibility for allocation of certain funds for military child development programs.
Sec. 572. Improvements to Exceptional Family Member Program.
Sec. 573. Procedures of the Office of Special Needs for the development of individualized services plans for military families with special needs.
Sec. 574. Restatement and clarification of authority to reimburse members for spouse relicensing costs pursuant to a permanent change of station.
Sec. 575. Improvements to Department of Defense tracking of and response to incidents of child abuse involving military dependents on military installations.
Sec. 576. Military child care and child development center matters.
Sec. 577. Expansion of financial assistance under My Career Advancement Account program.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 586. Removal of personally identifying and other information of certain persons from investigative reports, the Department of Defense Central Index of Investigations, and other records and databases.
Sec. 587. National emergency exception for timing requirements with respect to certain surveys of members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 588. Sunset and transfer of functions of the Physical Disability Board of Review.
Sec. 589. Extension of reporting deadline for the annual report on the assessment of the effectiveness of activities of the federal voting assistance program.
Sec. 590. Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to State governments and National Guards of other States of cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents.
Sec. 591. Plan on performance of funeral honors details by members of other Armed Forces when members of the Armed Force of the deceased are unavailable.
Sec. 592. Limitation on implementation of Army Combat Fitness Test.
Sec. 593. Report on impact of children of certain Filipino World War II veterans on national security, foreign policy, and economic and humanitarian interests of the United States.
TITLE VI—Compensation and Other Personnel Benefits
Subtitle A—Pay and Allowances
Sec. 601. Reorganization of certain allowances other than travel and transportation allowances.
Sec. 602. Hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces performing duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019.
Sec. 603. Compensation and credit for retired pay purposes for maternity leave taken by members of the reserve components.
Subtitle B—Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays
Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay authorities.
Sec. 612. Increase in special and incentive pays for officers in health professions.
Subtitle C—Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits
Sec. 621. Inclusion of drill or training foregone due to emergency travel or duty restrictions in computations of entitlement to and amounts of retired pay for non-regular service.
Sec. 622. Modernization and clarification of payment of certain Reserves while on duty.
Sec. 623. Relief of Richard W. Collins III.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
Sec. 631. Permanent authority for and enhancement of the Government lodging program.
Sec. 632. Approval of certain activities by retired and reserve members of the uniformed services.
TITLE VII—Health care provisions
Subtitle A—TRICARE and other health care benefits
Sec. 701. Authority for Secretary of Defense to manage provider type referral and supervision requirements under TRICARE program.
Sec. 702. Removal of Christian Science providers as authorized providers under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 703. Waiver of fees charged to certain civilians for emergency medical treatment provided at military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 704. Mental health resources for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents during the COVID–19 pandemic.
Sec. 705. Transitional health benefits for certain members of the National Guard serving under orders in response to the coronavirus (COVID–19).
Sec. 706. Extramedical maternal health providers demonstration project.
Sec. 707. Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription maintenance medications under TRICARE pharmacy benefits program.
Subtitle B—Health care administration
Sec. 721. Modifications to transfer of Army Medical Research and Development Command and public health commands to Defense Health Agency.
Sec. 722. Delay of applicability of administration of TRICARE dental plans through Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program.
Sec. 723. Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements during national emergencies for purposes of provision of health care.
Subtitle C—Reports and other matters
Sec. 741. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 742. Membership of Board of Regents of Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences.
Sec. 743. Military Health System Clinical Quality Management Program.
Sec. 744. Modifications to pilot program on civilian and military partnerships to enhance interoperability and medical surge capability and capacity of National Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 745. Study on force mix options and service models to enhance readiness of medical force of the Armed Forces to provide combat casualty care.
Sec. 746. Comptroller General study on delivery of mental health services to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 747. Review and report on prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at remote installations outside the contiguous United States.
Sec. 748. Audit of medical conditions of tenants in privatized military housing.
Sec. 749. Comptroller General study on prenatal and postpartum mental health conditions among members of the Armed Forces and their dependents.
Sec. 750. Plan for evaluation of flexible spending account options for members of the uniformed services and their families.
Sec. 751. Assessment of receipt by civilians of emergency medical treatment at military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 752. Report on billing practices for health care from Department of Defense.
Sec. 753. Access of veterans to Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record.
Sec. 754. Study on the incidence of cancer diagnosis and mortality among military aviators and aviation support personnel.
Subtitle D—Mental health services from Department of Veterans Affairs for members of reserve components
Sec. 761. Short title.
Sec. 762. Expansion of eligibility for readjustment counseling and related outpatient services from Department of Veterans Affairs to include members of reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 763. Provision of mental health services from Department of Veterans Affairs to members of reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 764. Inclusion of members of reserve components in mental health programs of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 765. Report on mental health and related services provided by Department of Veterans Affairs to members of the Armed Forces.
TITLE VIII—Acquisition policy, acquisition management, and related matters
Subtitle A—Industrial base matters
Sec. 801. Policy recommendations for implementation of Executive Order 13806 (Assessing and Strengthening the Manufacturing and Defense Industrial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency).
Sec. 802. Assessment of national security innovation base.
Sec. 803. Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 804. Modification of framework for modernizing acquisition processes to ensure integrity of industrial base.
Sec. 805. Assessments of industrial base capabilities and capacity.
Sec. 806. Analyses of certain materials and technology sectors for action to address sourcing and industrial capacity.
Sec. 807. Microelectronics manufacturing strategy.
Sec. 808. Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit boards.
Sec. 809. Statement of policy with respect to supply of strategic minerals and metals for Department of Defense purposes.
Sec. 810. Report on strategic and critical minerals and metals.
Sec. 811. Stabilization of shipbuilding industrial base workforce.
Sec. 812. Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods.
Sec. 813. Use of domestically sourced star trackers in national security satellites.
Sec. 814. Modification to small purchase threshold exception to sourcing requirements for certain articles.
Subtitle B—Acquisition policy and management
Sec. 831. Report on acquisition risk assessment and mitigation as part of Adaptive Acquisition Framework implementation.
Sec. 832. Comptroller General report on implementation of software acquisition reforms.
Subtitle C—Amendments to general contracting authorities, procedures, and limitations
Sec. 841. Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and services using general solicitation competitive procedures.
Sec. 842. Truth in Negotiations Act threshold for Department of Defense contracts.
Sec. 843. Revision of proof required when using an evaluation factor for defense contractors employing or subcontracting with members of the selected reserve of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 844. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units.
Sec. 845. Definition of business system deficiencies for contractor business systems.
Sec. 846. Repeal of pilot program on payment of costs for denied Government Accountability Office bid protests.
Subtitle D—Provisions relating to major defense acquisition programs
Sec. 861. Implementation of modular open systems architecture requirements.
Sec. 862. Sustainment reviews.
Sec. 863. Recommendations for future direct selections.
Sec. 864. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense acquisition program offers.
Subtitle E—Small business matters
Sec. 871. Prompt payment of contractors.
Sec. 872. Extension of pilot program for streamlined awards for innovative technology programs.
Sec. 873. Reporting requirements.
Subtitle F—Provisions related to Software-Driven capabilities
Sec. 881. Inclusion of software in government performance of acquisition functions.
Sec. 882. Balancing security and innovation in software development and acquisition.
Sec. 883. Comptroller General report on intellectual property acquisition and licensing.
Sec. 884. Pilot program exploring the use of consumption-based solutions to address software-intensive warfighting capability.
Subtitle G—Other matters
Sec. 891. Safeguarding defense-sensitive United States intellectual property, technology, and other data and information.
Sec. 892. Domestic comparative testing activities.
Sec. 893. Repeal of apprenticeship program.
TITLE IX—Department of Defense Organization and Management
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
Sec. 901. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict and related matters.
Sec. 902. Redesignation and codification in law of Office of Economic Adjustment.
Sec. 903. Modernization of process used by the Department of Defense to identify, task, and manage Congressional reporting requirements.
Sec. 904. Inclusion of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau as an advisor to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.
Sec. 905. Assignment of responsibility for the Arctic region within the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Subtitle B—Department of Defense Management Reform
Sec. 911. Termination of position of Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Report on assignment of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of Chief Management Officer to other officers or employees of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 913. Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 914. Assignment of certain responsibilities and duties to particular officers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 915. Assignment of responsibilities and duties of Chief Management Officer to officers or employees of the Department of Defense to be designated.
Sec. 916. Definition of enterprise business operations for title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 917. Annual report on enterprise business operations of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 918. Conforming amendments.
Subtitle C—Space Force Matters
PART I—Amendments to Integrate the Space Force Into Law
Sec. 931. Clarification of Space Force and Chief of Space Operations authorities.
Sec. 931A. Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
Sec. 932. Amendments to Department of the Air Force provisions in title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 933. Amendments to other provisions of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 934. Amendments to provisions of law relating to pay and allowances.
Sec. 935. Amendments relating to provisions of law on veterans’ benefits.
Sec. 936. Amendments to other provisions of the United States Code.
Sec. 937. Applicability to other provisions of law.
PART II—Other Matters
Sec. 941. Matters relating to reserve components for the Space Force.
Sec. 942. Transfers of military and civilian personnel to the Space Force.
Sec. 943. Limitation on transfer of military installations to the jurisdiction of the Space Force.
Sec. 944. Clarification of procurement of commercial satellite communications services.
Sec. 945. Temporary exemption from authorized daily average of members in pay grades E–8 and E–9.
Sec. 946. Application of acquisition demonstration project to Department of the Air Force employees assigned to acquisition positions within the Space Force.
Sec. 947. Air and Space Force Medal.
Subtitle D—Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
Sec. 951. Annual report on establishment of field operating agencies.
Sec. 952. Briefing on assignment of members of the Armed Forces on active duty to the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 953. Threats to United States forces from small unmanned aerial systems worldwide.
TITLE X—General Provisions
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Application of Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan to fiscal years following fiscal year 2020.
Sec. 1003. Incentives for the achievement by the components of the Department of Defense of unqualified audit opinions on the financial statements.
Subtitle B—Counterdrug activities
Sec. 1011. Codification of authority for joint task forces of the Department of Defense to support law enforcement agencies conducting counterterrorism or counter-transnational organized crime activities.
Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and Shipyards
Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to purchase used vessels with funds in the National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1022. Waiver during war or threat to national security of restrictions on overhaul, repair, or maintenance of vessels in foreign shipyards.
Sec. 1023. Modification of waiver authority on prohibition on use of funds for retirement of certain legacy maritime mine countermeasure platforms.
Sec. 1024. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for certain Navy mess operations afloat.
Sec. 1025. Sense of Congress on actions necessary to achieve a 355-ship Navy.
Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or relinquish control of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the United States to house detainees transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
Sec. 1041. Inclusion of disaster-related emergency preparedness activities among law enforcement activities authorities for sale or donation of excess personal property of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1042. Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense clandestine activities that support operational preparation of the environment.
Sec. 1043. Clarification of authority of military commissions under
chapter 47A
of title 10, United States Code, to punish contempt.
Sec. 1044. Prohibition on actions to infringe upon First Amendment rights of peaceable assembly and petition for redress of grievances.
Sec. 1045. Arctic planning, research, and development.
Sec. 1046. Consideration of security risks in certain telecommunications architecture for future overseas basing decisions of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1047. Foreign military training programs.
Sec. 1048. Reporting of adverse events relating to consumer products on military installations.
Sec. 1049. Inclusion of United States Naval Sea Cadet Corps among youth and charitable organizations authorized to receive assistance from the National Guard.
Sec. 1050. Department of Defense policy for the regulation of dangerous dogs.
Sec. 1051. Sense of Congress on the basing of KC–46A aircraft outside the contiguous United States.
Sec. 1052. Efficient use of sensitive compartmented information facilities.
Sec. 1053. Assistance for farmer and rancher stress and mental health of individuals in rural areas.
Sec. 1054. Additional conditions and limitations on the transfer of Department of Defense property for law enforcement activities.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
Sec. 1061. Report on potential improvements to certain military educational institutions of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1062. Reports on status and modernization of the North Warning System.
Sec. 1063. Studies on the force structure for Marine Corps aviation.
Sec. 1064. Study on unemployment rate of female veterans who served on active duty in the Armed Forces after September 11, 2001.
Sec. 1065. Report on Great Lakes and inland waterways seaports.
Sec. 1066. Report on the Chemical and Biological Defense Program of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1067. Report on round-the-clock availability of childcare for members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense who work rotating shifts.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 1081. Department of Defense strategic Arctic ports.
Sec. 1082. Personal protective equipment matters.
Sec. 1083. Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48.
Sec. 1084. Modernization effort.
Sec. 1085. Sense of Senate on Gold Star Families Remembrance Week.
Sec. 1086. Continuity of the Economy Plan.
Sec. 1087. Improving the authority for operations of unmanned aircraft for educational purposes.
Sec. 1088. Requirement to post a 100 word summary to regulations.gov.
Sec. 1089. Modification of licensure requirements for health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine.
Sec. 1090. Restrictions on Confucius Institutes.
Sec. 1090A. Additional care for newborn children of veterans.
Sec. 1090B. Additional diseases associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents for which there is a presumption of service connection for veterans who served in the Republic of Vietnam.
Subtitle H—Wireless supply chain innovation and multilateral security
Sec. 1091. Definitions.
Sec. 1092. Communications technology security funds.
Sec. 1093. Promoting United States leadership in international organizations and communications standards-setting bodies.
Subtitle I—Semiconductor Manufacturing Incentives
Sec. 1094. Semiconductor incentive grants.
Sec. 1095. Department of Defense.
Sec. 1096. Department of Commerce study on status of microelectronics technologies in the United States industrial base.
Sec. 1097. Funding for development and adoption of measurably secure microelectronics and measurably secure microelectronics supply chains.
Sec. 1098. Advanced semiconductor research and design.
Sec. 1099. Prohibition relating to foreign adversaries.
TITLE XI—Civilian Personnel Matters
Subtitle A—Department of Defense Matters
Sec. 1101. Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and technology positions in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1102. Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology positions in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1103. Extension of enhanced appointment and compensation authority for civilian personnel for care and treatment of wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1104. Extension of overtime rate authority for Department of the Navy employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1105. Expansion of direct hire authority for certain Department of Defense personnel to include installation military housing office positions supervising privatized military housing.
Sec. 1106. Extension of sunset of inapplicability of certification of executive qualifications by qualification certification review board of Office of Personnel Management for initial appointments to Senior Executive Service positions in Department of Defense.
Sec. 1107. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain high-level management positions in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1108. Pilot program on expanded authority for appointment of recently retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1109. Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for positions at remote locations.
Sec. 1110. Modification of direct hire authority for certain personnel involved with Department of Defense maintenance activities.
Sec. 1110A. Fire Fighters Alternative Work Schedule demonstration project for the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services.
Sec. 1110B. Report by Comptroller General of the United States on diversity and inclusion within the civilian workforce of the Department of Defense.
Subtitle B—Government-Wide Matters
Sec. 1111. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1112. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1113. Technical amendments to authority for reimbursement of Federal, State, and local income taxes incurred during travel, transportation, and relocation.
TITLE XII—Matters relating to foreign nations
Subtitle A—Assistance and training
Sec. 1201. Authority to build capacity for additional operations.
Sec. 1202. Authority to build capacity for air sovereignty operations.
Sec. 1203. Modification to the Inter-European Air Forces Academy.
Sec. 1204. Modification to support of special operations for irregular warfare.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of authority to support border security operations of certain foreign countries.
Sec. 1206. Modification of authority for participation in multinational centers of excellence.
Sec. 1207. Implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017.
Sec. 1208. Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies.
Sec. 1209. Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
Sec. 1210. Open Technology Fund.
Subtitle B—Matters relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of certain coalition nations for support provided to United States military operations.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response Program.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of support for reconciliation activities led by the Government of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Sense of Senate on special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies.
Sec. 1215. Sense of Senate and report on United States presence in Afghanistan.
Subtitle C—Matters relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran
Sec. 1221. Extension of authority and limitation on use of funds to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide assistance to vetted Syrian groups and individuals.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support operations and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Subtitle D—Matters relating to Europe and the Russian Federation
Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1234. Report on capability and capacity requirements of military forces of Ukraine and resource plan for security assistance.
Sec. 1235. Sense of Senate on North Atlantic Treaty Organization enhanced opportunities partner status for Ukraine.
Sec. 1236. Extension of authority for training for Eastern European national security forces in the course of multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1237. Sense of Senate on Kosovo and the role of the Kosovo Force of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1238. Sense of Senate on strategic competition with the Russian Federation and related activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1239. Report on Russian Federation support of racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists.
Sec. 1240. Participation in European program on multilateral exchange of surface transportation services.
Sec. 1241. Participation in programs relating to coordination or exchange of air refueling and air transportation services.
Sec. 1242. Sense of Congress on support for coordinated action to ensure the security of Baltic allies.
Subtitle E—Matters relating to the Indo-Pacific region
Sec. 1251. Pacific Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1252. Sense of Senate on the United States-Vietnam defense relationship.
Sec. 1253. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1254. Cooperative program with Vietnam to account for Vietnamese personnel missing in action.
Sec. 1255. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll, Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Sec. 1256. Authority to establish a Movement Coordination Center Pacific in the Indo-Pacific region and participate in an Air Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges of Services program.
Sec. 1257. Training of ally and partner air forces in Guam.
Sec. 1258. Statement of policy and sense of Senate on the Taiwan Relations Act.
Sec. 1259. Sense of Congress on port calls in Taiwan with the USNS Comfort and the USNS Mercy .
Sec. 1260. Limitation on use of funds to reduce total number of members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are deployed to the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1261. Sense of Congress on co-development with Japan of a long-range ground-based anti-ship cruise missile system.
Sec. 1262. Statement of policy on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1263. Extension of prohibition on commercial export of certain munitions to the Hong Kong Police Force.
Sec. 1264. Implementation of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act with regard to Taiwan arms sales.
Subtitle F—Reports
Sec. 1271. Review of and report on overdue acquisition and cross-servicing agreement transactions.
Sec. 1272. Report on burden sharing contributions by designated countries.
Sec. 1273. Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due to Huawei 5G architecture in host countries.
Sec. 1274. Allied burden sharing report.
Subtitle G—Other matters
Sec. 1281. Reciprocal patient movement agreements.
Sec. 1282. Extension of authorization of non-conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1283. Extension of Department of Defense support for stabilization activities in national security interest of the United States.
Sec. 1284. Notification with respect to withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces participating in the Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt.
Sec. 1285. Modification to initiative to support protection of national security academic researchers from undue influence and other security threats.
Sec. 1286. Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group.
Sec. 1287. Improved coordination of United States sanctions policy.
Subtitle H—Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act
Sec. 1291. Short title.
Sec. 1292. Assistance for United States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad.
Sec. 1293. Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs.
Sec. 1294. Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell.
Sec. 1295. Hostage Response Group.
Sec. 1296. Authorization of imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 1297. Definitions.
Sec. 1298. Rule of construction.
TITLE XIII—COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
Sec. 1301. Funding allocations for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
TITLE XIV—Other Authorizations
Subtitle A—Military Programs
Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—Armed Forces Retirement Home
Sec. 1411. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 1412. Periodic inspections of Armed Forces Retirement Home facilities by nationally recognized accrediting organization.
Sec. 1413. Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 1421. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, Illinois.
TITLE XV—Authorization of additional appropriations for Overseas contingency operations
Subtitle A—Authorization of appropriations
Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—Financial Matters
Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
Subtitle C—Other matters
Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1532. Transition and enhancement of inspector general authorities for Afghanistan reconstruction.
TITLE XVI—Strategic programs, cyber, and intelligence matters
Subtitle A—Space activities
Sec. 1601. Resilient and survivable positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities.
Sec. 1602. Development efforts for National Security Space Launch providers.
Sec. 1603. Timeline for nonrecurring design validation for responsive space launch.
Sec. 1604. Tactically responsive space launch operations.
Sec. 1605. Conforming amendments relating to reestablishment of Space Command.
Sec. 1606. Space Development Agency development requirements and transfer to Space Force.
Sec. 1607. Space launch rate assessment.
Sec. 1608. Report on impact of acquisition strategy for the National Security Space Launch Program on emerging foreign space launch providers.
Sec. 1609. Leveraging commercial satellite remote sensing.
Subtitle B—Cyberspace-Related Matters
Sec. 1611. Modification of position of Principal Cyber Advisor.
Sec. 1612. Framework for cyber hunt forward operations.
Sec. 1613. Modification of scope of notification requirements for sensitive military cyber operations.
Sec. 1614. Modification of requirements for quarterly Department of Defense cyber operations briefings for Congress.
Sec. 1615. Rationalization and integration of parallel cybersecurity architectures and operations.
Sec. 1616. Modification of acquisition authority of Commander of United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1617. Assessment of cyber operational planning and deconfliction policies and processes.
Sec. 1618. Pilot program on cybersecurity capability metrics.
Sec. 1619. Assessment of effect of inconsistent timing and use of Network Address Translation in Department of Defense networks.
Sec. 1620. Matters concerning the College of Information and Cyberspace at National Defense University.
Sec. 1621. Modification of mission of cyber command and assignment of cyber operations forces.
Sec. 1622. Integration of Department of Defense user activity monitoring and cybersecurity.
Sec. 1623. Defense industrial base cybersecurity sensor architecture plan.
Sec. 1624. Extension of Cyberspace Solarium Commission to track and assess implementation.
Sec. 1625. Review of regulations and promulgation of guidance relating to National Guard responses to cyber attacks.
Sec. 1626. Improvements relating to the quadrennial cyber posture review.
Sec. 1627. Report on enabling United States Cyber Command resource allocation.
Sec. 1628. Evaluation of options for establishing a cyber reserve force.
Sec. 1629. Ensuring cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1630. Modification of requirements relating to the Strategic Cybersecurity Program and the evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1631. Defense industrial base participation in a cybersecurity threat intelligence sharing program.
Sec. 1632. Assessment on defense industrial base cybersecurity threat hunting.
Sec. 1633. Assessing risk to national security of quantum computing.
Sec. 1634. Applicability of reorientation of Big Data Platform program to Department of Navy.
Sec. 1635. Expansion of authority for access and information relating to cyber attacks on operationally critical contractors of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1636. Requirements for review of and limitations on the Joint Regional Security Stacks activity.
Sec. 1637. Independent assessment of establishment of a National Cyber Director.
Sec. 1638. Modification of authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects.
Sec. 1639. Personnel management authority for Commander of United States Cyber Command and development program for offensive cyber operations.
Sec. 1640. Implementation of information operations matters.
Sec. 1641. Report on Cyber Institutes Program.
Sec. 1642. Assistance for small manufacturers in the defense industrial supply chain on matters relating to cybersecurity.
Sec. 1643. Study on cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their families.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 1651. Modification to responsibilities of Nuclear Weapons Council.
Sec. 1652. Responsibility of Nuclear Weapons Council in preparation of National Nuclear Security Administration budget.
Sec. 1653. Modification of Government Accountability Office review of annual reports on nuclear weapons enterprise.
Sec. 1654. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1655. Sense of the Senate on nuclear cooperation between the United States and the United Kingdom.
Subtitle D—Missile defense programs
Sec. 1661. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli cooperative missile defense program co-development and co-production.
Sec. 1662. Acceleration of the deployment of hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor payload.
Sec. 1663. Extension of prohibition relating to missile defense information and systems.
Sec. 1664. Report on and limitation on expenditure of funds for layered homeland missile defense system.
Sec. 1665. Extension of requirement for Comptroller General review and assessment of missile defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 1666. Repeal of requirement for reporting structure of Missile Defense Agency.
Sec. 1667. Ground-based midcourse defense interim capability.
TITLE XVII—Hong Kong Autonomy Act
Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Definitions.
Sec. 1703. Findings.
Sec. 1704. Sense of Congress regarding Hong Kong.
Sec. 1705. Identification of foreign persons involved in the erosion of the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law and foreign financial institutions that conduct significant transactions with those persons.
Sec. 1706. Sanctions with respect to foreign persons that contravene the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law.
Sec. 1707. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that conduct significant transactions with foreign persons that contravene the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law.
Sec. 1708. Waiver, termination, exceptions, and congressional review process.
Sec. 1709. Implementation; penalties.
Sec. 1710. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1711. Exception relating to importation of goods.
DIVISION B—Military Construction Authorizations
Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
TITLE XXI—Army military construction
Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2017 project at Camp Walker, Korea.
TITLE XXII—Navy military construction
Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
TITLE XXIII—Air Force military construction
Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project at Royal Air Force Lakenheath.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 projects.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 family housing projects.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 projects.
TITLE XXIV—Defense Agencies military construction
Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
TITLE XXV—International programs
Subtitle A—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
Sec. 2503. Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program.
Subtitle B—Host Country In-Kind Contributions
Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Qatar funded construction projects.
TITLE XXVI—Guard and Reserve Forces facilities
Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Sec. 2607. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2020 project in Alabama.
TITLE XXVII—Base realignment and closure activities
Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded through Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and closure (BRAC) round.
Sec. 2703. Plan to finish remediation activities conducted by the Secretary of the Army in Umatilla, Oregon.
TITLE XXVIII—Military construction and general provisions
Subtitle A—Military construction program
Sec. 2801. Responsibility of Navy for military construction requirements for certain Fleet Readiness Centers.
Sec. 2802. Construction of ground-based strategic deterrent launch facilities and launch centers for Air Force.
Subtitle B—Military family housing
Sec. 2821. Prohibition on substandard family housing units.
Sec. 2822. Technical corrections to privatized military housing program.
Sec. 2823. Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement recommendations relating to military family housing contained in report by Inspector General of Department of Defense.
Subtitle C—Project management and oversight reforms
Sec. 2841. Promotion of energy resilience and energy security in privatized utility systems.
Sec. 2842. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in life-cycle cost for military construction.
Subtitle D—Land conveyances
Sec. 2861. Renewal of Fallon Range Training Complex land withdrawal and reservation.
Sec. 2862. Renewal of Nevada Test and Training Range land withdrawal and reservation.
Sec. 2863. Transfer of land under the administrative jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior within Naval Support Activity Panama City, Florida.
Sec. 2864. Land conveyance, Camp Navajo, Arizona.
Subtitle E—Other matters
Sec. 2881. Military family readiness considerations in basing decisions.
Sec. 2882. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or demolish protected aircraft shelters in the European theater without creating a similar protection from attack.
Sec. 2883. Prohibitions relating to closure or returning to host nation of existing bases under the European Consolidation Initiative.
Sec. 2884. Enhancement of authority to accept conditional gifts of real property on behalf of military museums.
Sec. 2885. Equal treatment of insured depository institutions and credit unions operating on military installations.
Sec. 2886. Report on operational aviation units impacted by noise restrictions or noise mitigation measures.
Sec. 2887. Transfer of funds for Oklahoma City national memorial endowment fund.
TITLE XXIX—Overseas contingency operations military construction
Sec. 2901. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2904. Replenishment of certain military constructions funds.
DIVISION C—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE XXXI—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—National Security Programs and Authorizations
Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
Subtitle B—Budget of the National Nuclear Security Administration
Sec. 3111. Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget.
Subtitle C—Personnel matters
Sec. 3121. National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System.
Sec. 3122. Inclusion of certain employees and contractors of Department of Energy in definition of public safety officer for purposes of certain death benefits.
Sec. 3123. Reimbursement for liability insurance for nuclear materials couriers.
Sec. 3124. Transportation and moving expenses for immediate family of deceased nuclear materials couriers.
Sec. 3125. Extension of authority for appointment of certain scientific, engineering, and technical personnel.
Subtitle D—Cybersecurity
Sec. 3131. Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and subcontractors.
Sec. 3132. Clarification of responsibility for cybersecurity of National Nuclear Security Administration facilities.
Subtitle E—Defense Environmental Cleanup
Sec. 3141. Public statement of environmental liabilities for facilities undergoing defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3142. Inclusion of missed milestones in future-years defense environmental cleanup plan.
Sec. 3143. Classification of defense environmental cleanup as capital asset projects or operations activities.
Sec. 3144. Continued analysis of approaches for supplemental treatment of low-activity waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Subtitle F—Other Matters
Sec. 3151. Modifications to enhanced procurement authority to manage supply chain risk.
Sec. 3152. Prohibition on use of laboratory- or production facility-directed research and development funds for general and administrative overhead costs.
Sec. 3153. Monitoring of industrial base for nuclear weapons components, subsystems, and materials.
Sec. 3154. Prohibition on use of funds for advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3155. Authorization of appropriations for W93 nuclear warhead program.
Sec. 3156. Review of future of computing beyond exascale at the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3157. Application of requirement for independent cost estimates and reviews to new nuclear weapon systems.
Sec. 3158. Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation.
Sec. 3159. Integration of stockpile stewardship and nonproliferation missions.
Sec. 3160. Technology development and integration program.
Sec. 3161. Advanced manufacturing development program.
Sec. 3162. Materials science program.
Sec. 3163. Modifications to Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and High Yield Program.
Sec. 3164. Earned value management program for life extension programs.
Sec. 3165. Use of high performance computing capabilities for COVID–19 research.
Sec. 3166. Availability of stockpile responsiveness funds for projects to reduce time necessary to execute a nuclear test.
Sec. 3167. Sense of the Senate on extension of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation.
TITLE XXXII—DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Nonpublic collaborative discussions by Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Improvements to operations of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
DIVISION D—Funding Tables
Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
TITLE XLI—Procurement
Sec. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIII—OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLIV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLVI—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
TITLE XLVII—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
DIVISION E—Additional Provisions
TITLE LI—Procurement
Subtitle B—Army Programs
Sec. 5111. Report on CH–47F Chinook Block–II upgrade.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
Sec. 5121. Limitation on alteration of Navy fleet mix.
TITLE LII—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
Subtitle B—Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 5211. Importance of historically Black colleges and universities and minority-serving institutions.
Subtitle C—Sustainable Chemistry
Sec. 5221. National coordinating entity for sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5222. Strategic plan for sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5223. Agency activities in support of sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5224. Partnerships in sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5225. Prioritization.
Sec. 5226. Rule of construction.
Sec. 5227. Major multi-user research facility project.
Subtitle D—Cyber workforce matters
Sec. 5231. Improving National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education.
Sec. 5232. Development of standards and guidelines for improving cybersecurity workforce of Federal agencies.
Sec. 5233. Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service program.
Sec. 5234. Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service program.
Sec. 5235. Cybersecurity in programs of the National Science Foundation.
Sec. 5236. Cybersecurity in STEM programs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Sec. 5237. Cybersecurity in Department of Transportation programs.
Sec. 5238. National Cybersecurity Challenges.
Sec. 5239. Internet of Things.
Subtitle E—Plans, Reports, and Other Matters
Sec. 5241. Report on Department of Defense strategy on artificial intelligence standards.
Sec. 5242. Study on establishment of energetics program office.
Sec. 5243. Deepfake report.
Sec. 5244. CISA Director.
Sec. 5245. Agency review.
Sec. 5246. General Services Administration review.
TITLE LIII—Operation and Maintenance
Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
Sec. 5331. Use of cost savings realized from intergovernmental services agreements for installation-support services.
Subtitle D—Reports
Sec. 5351. Report on non-permissive, global positioning system denied airfield capabilities.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 5371. Increase of amounts available to Marine Corps for base operations and support.
Sec. 5372. Modernization of congressional reports process.
TITLE LV—Military Personnel Policy
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
Sec. 5516. Report on implementation of recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States on recruitment and retention of female members of the Armed Forces.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
Sec. 5551. Report on regulations and procedures to implement programs on award of medals or commendations to handlers of military working dogs.
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART II—Military Family Readiness Matters
Sec. 5571. Independent study and report on military spouse underemployment.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 5586. Questions regarding racism, anti-Semitism, and supremacism in workplace surveys administered by the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 5587. Briefing on the implementation of requirements on connections of retiring and separating members of the Armed Forces with community-based organizations and related entities.
Sec. 5590. Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to State governments and National Guards of other States of cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents.
TITLE LVII—Health Care Provisions
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care Provisions
Sec. 5707. Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription maintenance medications under TRICARE pharmacy benefits program.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
Sec. 5723. Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements during national emergencies for purposes of provision of health care.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
Sec. 5741. Study and report on surge capacity of Department of Defense to establish negative air room containment systems in military medical treatment facilities.
TITLE LVIII—Acquisition Policy, Acquisition Management, and Related Matters
Subtitle A—Industrial Base Matters
Sec. 5801. Report on use of domestic nonavailability determinations.
Sec. 5802. Report on the effect of the Defense Manufacturing Communities Support Program on the defense supply chain.
Sec. 5803. Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 5808. Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit boards.
Sec. 5812. Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
Sec. 5841. Waivers of certain conditions for progress payments under certain contracts during the COVID–19 national emergency.
Subtitle E—Small Business Matters
Sec. 5871. Office of Small Business and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.
Sec. 5872. Eligibility of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for certain Small Business Administration programs.
Sec. 5873. Disaster declaration in rural areas.
Sec. 5874. Temporary extension for 8(a) participants.
Sec. 5875. Maximum award price for sole source manufacturing contracts.
Sec. 5876. Annual reports regarding the SBIR program of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 5877. Small business loans for nonprofit child care providers.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 5891. Listing of other transaction authority consortia.
Sec. 5892. Report recommending disposition of notes to certain sections of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 5893. Applicability of reporting requirement related to notional milestones and standard timelines for foreign military sales.
Sec. 5894. Additional requirements related to mitigating risks related to foreign ownership, control, or influence of Department of Defense contractors and subcontractors.
TITLE LIX—Department of Defense Organization and Management
Subtitle D—Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
Sec. 5951. Comptroller General of the United States report on vulnerabilities of the Department of Defense resulting from offshore technical support call centers.
TITLE LX—General Provisions
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 6001. Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) reports on improving the budget justification and related materials of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 6002. Report on fiscal year 2022 budget request requirements in connection with Air Force operations in the Arctic.
Sec. 6003. Providing information to States regarding undelivered savings bonds.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
Sec. 6046. Conditions for permanently basing United States equipment or additional military units in host countries with at-risk vendors in 5G or 6G networks.
Sec. 6047. Antidiscrimination.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
Sec. 6061. Maritime security and domain awareness.
Sec. 6062. Report on pandemic preparedness and planning of the Navy.
Sec. 6063. Study and report on the affordability of insulin.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 6081. Modification to First Division monument.
Sec. 6082. Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48.
Sec. 6083. Diesel emissions reduction.
Sec. 6084. Utilizing significant emissions with innovative technologies.
Sec. 6085. Legal assistance for veterans and surviving spouses and dependents.
Sec. 6086. Silver Star Service Banner Day.
Sec. 6087. Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.
Sec. 6088. Subpoena authority.
Sec. 6089. Thad Cochran headquarters building.
Sec. 6090. Comptroller General of the United States report on handling by Department of Veterans Affairs of disability-related benefits claims by veterans with type 1 diabetes who were exposed to a herbicide agent.
Sec. 6091. Special rules for certain monthly workers’ compensation payments and other payments for Federal Government personnel under chief of mission authority.
Subtitle H—Industries of the Future
Sec. 6094A. Short title.
Sec. 6094B. Report on Federal research and development focused on industries of the future.
Sec. 6094C. Industries of the Future Coordination Council.
Subtitle I—READI Act
Sec. 6096. Short title.
Sec. 6096A. Definitions.
Sec. 6096B. Wireless Emergency Alerts System offerings.
Sec. 6096C. State Emergency Alert System Plans and Emergency Communications Committees.
Sec. 6096D. Integrated public alert and warning system guidance.
Sec. 6096E. False alert reporting.
Sec. 6096F. Repeating Emergency Alert System messages for national security.
Sec. 6096G. Internet and online streaming services emergency alert examination.
TITLE LXII—Matters Relating to Foreign Nations
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
Sec. 6211. Congressional oversight of United States talks with Taliban officials and Afghanistan’s comprehensive peace process.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation
Sec. 6231. Clarification and expansion of sanctions relating to construction of Nord Stream 2 or TurkStream pipeline projects.
Sec. 6235. Sense of Senate on admission of Ukraine to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Enhanced Opportunities Partnership Program.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region
Sec. 6251. Pilot program to improve cyber cooperation with Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
Subtitle F—Reports
Sec. 6273. Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due to Huawei 5G architecture in host countries.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 6281. Comparative studies on defense budget transparency of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United States.
Sec. 6282. Modification to initiative to support protection of national security academic researchers from undue influence and other security threats.
Sec. 6283. Sense of Senate on United States-Israel cooperation on precision-guided munitions.
Sec. 6284. Blocking deadly fentanyl imports.
Sec. 6286. Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group.
Subtitle H—United States-Israel Security Assistance
Sec. 6290. Short title.
Sec. 6290A. Definition.
Chapter 1—Security assistance for Israel
Sec. 6291. Findings.
Sec. 6292. Statement of policy.
Sec. 6293. Security assistance for Israel.
Sec. 6294. Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.
Sec. 6295. Extension of loan guarantees to Israel.
Sec. 6296. Transfer of precision guided munitions to Israel.
Sec. 6297. Sense of Congress on rapid acquisition and deployment procedures.
Sec. 6298. Eligibility of Israel for the strategic trade authorization exception to certain export control licensing requirements.
Chapter 2—Enhanced United States-Israel cooperation
Sec. 6299. United States Agency for International Development memoranda of understanding to enhance cooperation with Israel.
Sec. 6299A. Cooperative projects among the United States, Israel, and developing countries.
Sec. 6299B. Joint cooperative program related to innovation and high-tech for the Middle East region.
Sec. 6299C. Sense of Congress on United States-Israel economic cooperation.
Sec. 6299D. Cooperation on directed energy capabilities.
Sec. 6299E. Plans to provide Israel with necessary defense articles and services in a contingency.
Sec. 6299F. Other matters of cooperation.
TITLE LXVI—Strategic Programs, Cyber, and Intelligence Matters
Subtitle B—Cyberspace Related Matters
Sec. 6611. Report on use of encryption by Department of Defense national security systems.
Sec. 6612. Guidance and direction on use of direct hiring processes for artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel.
Sec. 6613. Cybersecurity State Coordinator Act.
Sec. 6614. Cybersecurity Advisory Committee.
Sec. 6615. Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 6651. Report on electromagnetic pulse hardening of ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.
TITLE LXVII—Nuclear Energy Leadership
Sec. 6701. Advanced nuclear reactor research and development goals.
Sec. 6702. Nuclear energy strategic plan.
Sec. 6703. Versatile, reactor-based fast neutron source.
Sec. 6704. Advanced nuclear fuel security program.
Sec. 6705. University Nuclear Leadership Program.
Sec. 6706. Adjusting strategic petroleum reserve mandated drawdowns.
TITLE LXXVIII—Military Construction and General Provisions
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
Sec. 7801. Modification to authority for military construction projects for child development centers at military installations.
Sec. 7802. Modification of construction of ground-based strategic deterrent launch facilities and launch centers for the Air Force.
Subtitle B—Military Family Housing
Sec. 7821. Inclusion of assessment of performance metrics in annual publication on use of incentive fees for privatized military housing projects.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
Sec. 7861. Establishment of interagency committees on joint use of certain land withdrawn from appropriation under public land laws.
Sec. 7862. Lease extension for Bryan Multi-Sports Complex, Wayne County, North Carolina.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 7881. Sense of Congress on relocation of Joint Spectrum Center.
TITLE LXXXI—Department of Energy National Security Programs
Subtitle F—Other Matters
Sec. 8159. Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation.
DIVISION F—Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
Sec. 9001. Short title.
Sec. 9002. Definitions.
TITLE XCI—Intelligence activities
Sec. 9101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 9102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 9103. Intelligence Community Management Account.
TITLE XCII—Central Intelligence Agency retirement and disability system
Sec. 9201. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XCIII—Intelligence community matters
Subtitle A—General intelligence community matters
Sec. 9301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 9302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 9303. Clarification of authorities and responsibilities of National Manager for National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security.
Sec. 9304. Continuity of operations plans for certain elements of the intelligence community in the case of a national emergency.
Sec. 9305. Application of Executive Schedule level III to position of Director of National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 9306. National Intelligence University.
Sec. 9307. Requiring facilitation of establishment of Social Media Data and Threat Analysis Center.
Sec. 9308. Data collection on attrition in intelligence community.
Sec. 9309. Limitation on delegation of responsibility for program management of information-sharing environment.
Sec. 9310. Improvements to provisions relating to intelligence community information technology environment.
Sec. 9311. Requirements and authorities for Director of the Central Intelligence Agency to improve education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics.
Subtitle B—Reports and assessments pertaining to intelligence community
Sec. 9321. Assessment by the Comptroller General of the United States on efforts of the intelligence community and the Department of Defense to identify and mitigate risks posed to the intelligence community and the Department by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 9322. Report on use by intelligence community of hiring flexibilities and expedited human resources practices to assure quality and diversity in the workforce of the intelligence community.
Sec. 9323. Report on signals intelligence priorities and requirements.
Sec. 9324. Assessment of demand for student loan repayment program benefit.
Sec. 9325. Assessment of intelligence community demand for child care.
Sec. 9326. Open source intelligence strategies and plans for the intelligence community.
TITLE XCIV—Security clearances and trusted workforce
Sec. 9401. Exclusivity, consistency, and transparency in security clearance procedures, and right to appeal.
Sec. 9402. Establishing process parity for security clearance revocations.
Sec. 9403. Federal policy on sharing of derogatory information pertaining to contractor employees in the trusted workforce.
TITLE XCV—Reports and other matters
Sec. 9501. Report on attempts by foreign adversaries to build telecommunications and cybersecurity equipment and services for, or to provide such equipment and services to, certain allies of the United States.
Sec. 9502. Report on threats posed by use by foreign governments and entities of commercially available cyber intrusion and surveillance technology.
Sec. 9503. Reports on recommendations of the Cyberspace Solarium Commission.
Sec. 9504. Assessment of critical technology trends relating to artificial intelligence, microchips, and semiconductors and related supply chains.
Sec. 9505. Combating Chinese influence operations in the United States and strengthening civil liberties protections.
Sec. 9506. Annual report on corrupt activities of senior officials of the Chinese Communist Party.
Sec. 9507. Report on corrupt activities of Russian and other Eastern European oligarchs.
Sec. 9508. Report on biosecurity risk and disinformation by the Chinese Communist Party and the Government of the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 9509. Report on effect of lifting of United Nations arms embargo on Islamic Republic of Iran.
Sec. 9510. Report on Iranian activities relating to nuclear nonproliferation.
Sec. 9511. Sense of Congress on Third Option Foundation.
3.
Congressional defense committees
In this Act, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
4.
Budgetary effects of this Act
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report or amendment between the Houses.
A
Department of Defense Authorizations
I
Procurement
A
Authorization of appropriations
101.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4101.
B
Army programs
111.
Integrated air and missile defense assessment
(a)
Assessment by Secretary of the Army
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Army shall conduct a classified assessment of the capability and capacity of current and planned integrated air and missile defense (IAMD) capabilities to meet combatant commander requirements for major operations against great-power competitors and other global operations in support of the National Defense Strategy.
(2)
Elements
The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Analysis and characterization of current and emerging threats, including the following:
(i)
Cruise, hypersonic, and ballistic missiles.
(ii)
Unmanned aerial systems.
(iii)
Rockets.
(iv)
Other indirect fire.
(v)
Specific and meaningfully varied examples within each of subclauses (I) through (IV).
(B)
Analysis of current and planned integrated air and missile defense capabilities to counter the threats analyzed and characterized under subparagraph (A), including the following:
(i)
Projected timelines for development, procurement, and fielding of planned integrated air and missile defense capabilities.
(ii)
Projected capability gaps.
(iii)
Opportunities for acceleration or need for incorporation of interim capabilities to address current and projected gaps.
(C)
Analysis of current and planned capacity to meet major contingency plan requirements and ongoing global operations of the combatant commands, including the following:
(i)
Current and planned numbers of integrated air and missile defense systems and formations, including munitions.
(ii)
Capacity gaps in addressing combatant command requirements.
(iii)
Operations tempo stress on integrated air and missile defense formations and personnel.
(iv)
Plans of the Secretary to continue to increase integrated air and missile defense personnel and formations.
(D)
Assessment of integrated air and missile defense architecture and enabling command and control systems, including the following:
(i)
A description of the integrated air and missile defense architecture and component counter unmanned aerial systems (C–UAS) sub-architecture.
(ii)
Identification of the enabling command and control (C2) systems.
(iii)
Inter-connectivity of the enabling command and control systems.
(iv)
Compatibility of the enabling command and control systems with planned Joint All Domain Command and Control (JADC2) architecture.
(E)
Assessment of proponency within the Army of integrated air and missile defense and counter unmanned aerial systems, including the following:
(i)
A description of the current proponency structure.
(ii)
Adequacy of the current proponency structure to facilitate Army executive agency integrated air and missile defense and counter unmanned aerial systems functions for the Department of Defense.
(iii)
Benefits of establishing integrated air and missile defense and counter unmanned aerial systems centers of excellence to help focus Army and joint force efforts to achieving a functional integrated air and missile defense capability and capacity to meet requirements of the combatant commands.
(3)
Characterization
(A)
In general
In carrying out paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary shall avoid broad characterizations that do not sufficiently distinguish between distinctly different threats in the same general class.
(B)
Example
An example of a broad characterization to be avoided under such paragraph is
cruise missiles
, since such characterization does not sufficiently distinguish between current cruise missiles and emerging hypersonic cruise missiles, which may require different capabilities to counter them.
(4)
Report and interim briefing
(A)
Interim briefing
Not later than December 15, 2020, the Secretary shall provide the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on the assessment being conducted by the Secretary under paragraph (1).
(B)
Report
Not later than February 15, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the Secretary with respect to the assessment conducted under paragraph (1).
(b)
Review by Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
(1)
Review
The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall review the assessment being conducted under subsection (a)(1) for potential gaps in capability and capacity to meet requirements of the National Defense Strategy.
(2)
Report
Not later than April 15, 2021, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the finding of the Vice Chairman with respect to the review conducted under paragraph (1).
112.
Report and limitation on Integrated Visual Augmentation System acquisition
(a)
Report required
(1)
In General
Not later than August 15, 2021, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the Integrated Visual Augmentation System (IVAS) subsequent to the completion of operational testing.
(2)
Elements required
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Certification of the IVAS acquisition strategy, to include production model costs, full rate production schedule, and identification of any changes resulting from operational testing.
(B)
Certification of technology levels being utilized in the full rate production model.
(C)
Certification of operational suitability and soldier acceptability of the production model IVAS.
(b)
Limitation on use of funds
Not more than 50 percent of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for procurement of the Integrated Visual Augmentation System may be obligated or expended until the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees the report required under subsection (a).
113.
Modifications to requirement for an interim cruise missile defense capability
(a)
Plan
Not later than January 15, 2021, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees the plan, including a timeline, to operationally deploy or forward station the two batteries of interim cruise missile defense capability procured pursuant to section 112 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1660) in an operational theater or theaters.
(b)
Modification of waiver
Section 112(b)(4) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1661) is amended to read as follows:
(4)
Waiver
The Secretary of the Army may waive the deadlines specified in paragraph (1):
(A)
For the deadline specified in paragraph (1)(A), if the Secretary determines that sufficient funds have not been appropriated to enable the Secretary to meet such deadline.
(B)
For the deadline specified in paragraph (1)(B), if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a certification that—
(i)
allocating resources toward procurement of an integrated enduring capability would provide robust tiered and layered protection to the joint force; or
(ii)
additional time is required to complete training and preparation for operational capability.
.
C
Navy programs
121.
Contract authority for Columbia-class submarine program
(a)
Contract authority
The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract, beginning with fiscal year 2021, for the procurement of up to two Columbia-class submarines.
(b)
Incremental funding
With respect to a contract entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy may use incremental funding to make payments under the contract.
(c)
Liability
Any contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that—
(1)
any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose; and
(2)
total liability of the Federal Government for termination of any contract entered into shall be limited to the total amount of funding obligated to the contract at time of termination.
122.
Limitation on Navy medium and large unmanned surface vessels
(a)
Milestone B approval requirements
Milestone B approval may not be granted for a covered program unless such program accomplishes prior to and incorporates into such approval—
(1)
qualification by the Senior Technical Authority of—
(A)
at least two different main propulsion engines and ancillary equipment, including the fuel and lube oil systems; and
(B)
at least two different electrical generators and ancillary equipment;
(2)
final results of test programs of engineering development models or prototypes for critical systems specified by the Senior Technical Authority in their final form, fit, and function and in a realistic environment; and
(3)
a determination by the milestone decision authority of the minimum number of vessels, discrete test events, performance parameters to be tested, and schedule required to complete initial operational test and evaluation and demonstrate operational suitability and operational effectiveness.
(b)
Qualification requirements
The qualification required in subsection (a)(1) shall include a land-based operational demonstration of such equipment in the vessel-representative form, fit, and function for not less than 1,080 continuous hours without preventative maintenance, corrective maintenance, emergent repair, or any other form of repair or maintenance.
(c)
Requirement to use qualified engines and generators
The Secretary of the Navy shall require that covered programs use only main propulsion engines and electrical generators that are qualified under subsection (a)(1).
(d)
Limitation
The Secretary of the Navy may not release a detail design or construction request for proposals or obligate funds from a procurement account for a covered program until such program receives Milestone B approval and the milestone decision authority notifies the congressional defense committees, in writing, of the actions taken to comply with the requirements under this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered program
means a program for—
(A)
medium unmanned surface vessels; or
(B)
large unmanned surface vessels.
(2)
The term
Milestone B approval
has the meaning given the term in section 2366(e)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
The term
milestone decision authority
means the official within the Department of Defense designated with the overall responsibility and authority for acquisition decisions for the program, including authority to approve entry of the program into the next phase of the acquisition process.
(4)
The term
Senior Technical Authority
has the meaning given the term in section 8669b of title 10, United States Code.
123.
Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy waterborne security barriers
Section 130(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1665), as amended by section 126 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
for fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year 2020
and inserting
for fiscal years 2019, 2020, or 2021
.
124.
Procurement authorities for certain amphibious shipbuilding programs
(a)
Contract authority
(1)
Procurement authorized
In fiscal year 2021, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts for the procurement of three San Antonio-class amphibious ships and one America-class amphibious ship.
(2)
Procurement in conjunction with existing contracts
The ships authorized to be procured under paragraph (1) may be procured as additions to existing contracts covering such programs.
(b)
Certification required
A contract may not be entered into under subsection (a) unless the Secretary of the Navy certifies to the congressional defense committees, in writing, not later than 30 days before entry into the contract, each of the following, which shall be prepared by the milestone decision authority for such programs:
(1)
The use of such a contract is consistent with the Department of the Navy’s projected force structure requirements for amphibious ships.
(2)
The use of such a contract will result in significant savings compared to the total anticipated costs of carrying out the program through annual contracts. In certifying cost savings under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall include a written explanation of—
(A)
the estimated end cost and appropriated funds by fiscal year, by hull, without the authority provided in subsection (a);
(B)
the estimated end cost and appropriated funds by fiscal year, by hull, with the authority provided in subsection (a);
(C)
the estimated cost savings or increase by fiscal year, by hull, with the authority provided in subsection (a);
(D)
the discrete actions that will accomplish such cost savings or avoidance; and
(E)
the contractual actions that will ensure the estimated cost savings are realized.
(3)
There is a reasonable expectation that throughout the contemplated contract period the Secretary of the Navy will request funding for the contract at the level required to avoid contract cancellation.
(4)
There is a stable design for the property to be acquired and the technical risks associated with such property are not excessive.
(5)
The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the anticipated cost avoidance through the use of a contract authorized under subsection (a) are realistic.
(6)
The use of such a contract will promote the national security of the United States.
(7)
During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense program (as defined under section 221 of title 10, United States Code) for such fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
(c)
Authority for advance procurement
The Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts for advance procurement associated with a vessel or vessels for which authorization to enter into a contract is provided under subsection (a), and for systems and subsystems associated with such vessels in economic order quantities when cost savings are achievable.
(d)
Condition for out-year contract payments
A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such fiscal year.
(e)
Milestone decision authority defined
In this section. the term
milestone decision authority
has the meaning given the term in section 2366a(d) of title 10, United States Code.
125.
Fighter force structure acquisition strategy
(a)
Report required
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report with a fighter force structure acquisition strategy that is aligned with the results of the independent studies required under section 1064 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1576).The strategy shall establish a minimum number of F–35 and Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) aircraft that the Navy and Marine Corps would be required to purchase each year to mitigate or manage strike fighter shortfalls.
(b)
Limitation on deviation from strategy
The Department of the Navy may not deviate from the acquisition strategy established under subsection (a) until—
(1)
the Secretary of the Navy receives a waiver and justification from the Secretary of Defense; and
(2)
30 days after the Secretary of the Navy notifies the congressional defense committees of the proposed deviation.
126.
Treatment of systems added by Congress in future President’s budget requests
A procurement quantity of a system authorized by Congress in a National Defense Authorization Act for a given fiscal year that is subsequently appropriated by Congress in an amount greater than the quantity of such system included in the President’s annual budget request submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, for such fiscal year shall not be included as a new procurement quantity in future annual budget requests.
127.
Report on carrier wing composition
(a)
Report
Not later than May 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Chief of Naval Operations and Commandant of the Marine Corps, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the optimal composition of the carrier air wing in 2030 and 2040, as well as alternative force design concepts.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
An analysis and justification used to reach the 50–50 mix of 4th and 5th generation aircraft for 2030.
(2)
An analysis and justification for the optimal mix of carrier aircraft for 2040.
(3)
A plan for incorporating unmanned aerial vehicles and associated communication capabilities to effectively implement the future force design.
128.
Report on strategy to use ALQ–249 Next Generation Jammer to ensure full spectrum electromagnetic superiority
(a)
Report
Not later than July 30, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, shall submit to the congressional defense committees report with a strategy to ensure full spectrum electromagnetic superiority using the ALQ–249 Next Generation Jammer.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
A description of the current procurement strategy of the ALQ–249 and the analysis of its capability to meet the RF frequency ranges required in a National Defense Strategy (NDS) conflict.
(2)
An assessment of the ALQ–249's compatibility and ability to synchronize non-kinetic fires using other Joint Electronic Warfare (EW) platforms.
(3)
A future model of an interlinked/interdependent electronic warfare menu of options for commanders at tactical, operational, and strategic levels.
D
Air Force programs
141.
Economic order quantity contracting authority for F–35 joint strike fighter program
(a)
Authority for advance procurement and economic order quantity
The Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2020 program year, for the procurement of economic order quantities of material and equipment for the F–35 aircraft program for use in procurement contracts to be awarded for such program during fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
(b)
Limitation
The total amount obligated in fiscal year 2021 under all contracts entered into under subsection (a) shall not exceed $493,000,000.
(c)
Preliminary findings
Before entering into a contract under subsection (a), the Secretary shall make each of the following findings with respect to such contract:
(1)
The use of such a contract will result in significant savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the program through annual contracts.
(2)
The minimum need for the property to be procured is expected to remain substantially unchanged during the contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, procurement rate, and total quantities.
(3)
There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the contemplated contract period, the Secretary will request funding for the contract at the level required to avoid contract cancellation.
(4)
There is a stable design for the property to be procured, and the technical risks associated with such property are not excessive.
(5)
The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic order quantity contract are realistic.
(6)
Entering into the contract will promote the national security interests of the United States.
(d)
Certification requirement
Except as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract under subsection (a) until 30 days after the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees, in writing, that each of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1)
A sufficient number of end items of the system being acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within the most recently available estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system to determine that the estimates of the unit costs are realistic.
(2)
During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, for that fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
(3)
The contract is a fixed-price type contract.
(4)
The proposed contract provides for production at not less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling and facilities.
(5)
The Secretary has determined that each of the conditions described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (c) will be met by such contract and has provided the basis for such determination to the congressional defense committees.
(6)
The determination under paragraph (5) was made after the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the purpose of section 2334(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, and the analysis supports that determination.
(e)
Exception
Notwithstanding subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense may enter into a contract under subsection (a) on or after December 1, 2020, if—
(1)
the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation has not completed a cost analysis of the preliminary findings made by the Secretary under subsection (c) with respect to the contract;
(2)
the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees, in writing, that each of the conditions described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (d) is satisfied; and
(3)
a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary submits the certification under paragraph (2).
142.
Minimum aircraft levels for major mission areas
(a)
Minimum levels
Except as provided under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain the following minima, based on Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory (PMAI):
(1)
1,182 Fighter aircraft.
(2)
190 Attack Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA).
(3)
92 Bomber aircraft.
(4)
412 Tanker aircraft.
(5)
230 Tactical airlift aircraft.
(6)
235 Strategic airlift aircraft.
(7)
84 Strategic Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft.
(8)
106 Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) aircraft.
(b)
Exceptions
The Secretary of the Air Force may reduce the number of aircraft in the PMAI of the Air Force below the minima specified in subsection (a) only if—
(1)
the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that such reduction is justified by the results of the new capability and requirements studies; and
(2)
a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which the certification is made to the congressional defense committees under paragraph (1).
(c)
Applicability
The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable because of mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
143.
Minimum operational squadron level
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of the Air Force shall seek to achieve a minimum of not fewer than 386 available operational squadrons, or equivalent organizational units, within the Air Force. In addition to the operational squadrons, the Secretary shall strive to achieve the following primary mission aircraft inventory (PMAI) numbers:
(1)
1,680 Fighter aircraft.
(2)
199 Persist attack remotely piloted aircraft (RPA).
(3)
225 Bomber aircraft.
(4)
500 Air refueling aircraft.
(5)
286 Tactical airlift aircraft.
(6)
284 Strategic airlift aircraft.
(7)
55 Command and control aircraft.
(8)
105 Combat search and rescue (CSAR) aircraft.
(9)
30 Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft.
(10)
179 Special operations aircraft.
(11)
40 Electronic warfare (EW) aircraft.
144.
Minimum Air Force bomber aircraft level
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees recommendations for a minimum number of bomber aircraft, including penetrating bombers in addition to B–52H aircraft, to enable the Air Force to carry out its long-range penetrating strike capability.
145.
F–35 gun system
The Secretary of the Air Force shall begin the procurement process for an alternate 25mm ammunition solution that provides a true full-spectrum target engagement capability for the F–35A aircraft.
146.
Prohibition on funding for Close Air Support Integration Group
No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended for the Close Air Support Integration Group (CIG) or its subordinate units at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, and the Air Force may not utilize personnel or equipment in support of the CIG or its subordinate units.
147.
Limitation on divestment of KC–10 and KC–135 aircraft
The Secretary of Defense may not divest KC–10 and KC–135 aircraft in excess of the following amounts:
(1)
In fiscal year 2021, 6 KC–10 aircraft, including only 3 from primary mission aircraft inventory (PMAI).
(2)
In fiscal year 2022, 12 KC–10 aircraft.
(3)
In fiscal year 2023, 12 KC–10 and 14 KC–135 aircraft.
148.
Limitation on retirement of U–2 and RQ–4 aircraft
(a)
Limitation
The Secretary of the Air Force may not take any action that would prevent the Air Force from maintaining the fleets of U–2 aircraft or RQ–4 aircraft in their current, or improved, configurations and capabilities until the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council certifies in writing to the appropriate committees of Congress that the capability to be fielded at the same time or before the retirement of the U–2 aircraft or RQ–4 aircraft (as the case may be) would result in equal or greater capability available to the commanders of the combatant commands and would not result in less capacity available to the commanders of the combatant commands.
(b)
Waiver
The Secretary of Defense may waive the certification requirement under subsection (a) with respect to U–2 aircraft or RQ–4 aircraft if the Secretary—
(1)
determines, after analyzing sufficient and relevant data, that a loss in capacity and capability will not prevent the combatant commanders from accomplishing their missions at acceptable levels of risk; and
(2)
provides to the appropriate committees of Congress a certification of such determination and supporting analysis.
(c)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
149.
Limitation on divestment of F–15C aircraft in the European theater
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the Air Force may not divest F–15C aircraft in the European theater until the F–15EX aircraft is integrated into the Air Force and has begun bed down actions in the European theater.
(b)
Waiver
The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Commander of the United States European Command (EUCOM), may waive the limitation under subsection (a) if the Secretary certifies to Congress the divestment is required for the national defense and that there exists sufficient resources at all times to meet NATO and EUCOM air superiority requirements for the European theater.
150.
Air base defense development and acquisition strategy
(a)
Strategy required
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), in consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Army (CSA), shall submit to the congressional defense committees a development and acquisition strategy to procure a capability to protect air bases and prepositioned sites in contested environments highlighted in the National Defense Strategy. The strategy should ensure a solution that is effective against current and emerging cruise missile and advanced hypersonic missile threats.
(b)
Limitation on use of operation and maintenance funds
Not more than 50 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and the Office of the Secretary of the Army may be obligated or expended until 15 days after submission of the strategy required under subsection (a).
151.
Required solution for KC–46 aircraft remote visual system limitations
The Secretary of the Air Force shall develop and implement a complete, one-time solution to the KC–46 aircraft remote visual system (RVS) operational limitations. Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees an implementation strategy for the solution.
152.
Analysis of requirements and Advanced Battle Management System capabilities
(a)
Analysis
Not later than April 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the commanders of the combatant commands, shall develop an analysis of current and future moving target indicator requirements across the combatant commands and operational and tactical level command and control capabilities the Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS) will require when fielded.
(b)
JROC requirements
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the Secretary of the Air Force develops the analysis under subsection (a), the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) shall certify that requirements for ABMS incorporate the findings of the analysis.
(2)
Congressional notification
The Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) shall notify the congressional defense committees upon making the certification required under paragraph (1) and provide a briefing on the requirements and findings described in such paragraph not later than 30 days after such notification.
153.
Studies on measures to assess cost-per-effect for key mission areas
(a)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide for the performance of two independent studies to devise new measures to assess cost-per-effect for key mission areas. One of the studies shall be conducted by an organization described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code, and one of the studies shall be conducted by a federally funded research and development center.
(b)
Scope
Each study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall address the following matters:
(1)
Number of weapon systems required to meet a specified mission goal.
(2)
Number of personnel required to meet a specified mission goal.
(3)
Associated operation and maintenance costs necessary to facilitate respective operational constructs.
(4)
Basing requirements for respective force constructs.
(5)
Mission support elements required to facilitate specified operations.
(6)
Defensive measures required to facilitate viable mission operations.
(7)
Attrition due to enemy countermeasures and other loss factors associated with respective technologies.
(8)
Associated weapon effects costs compared to alternative forms of power projection.
(c)
Implementation of measures
The Secretary of the Air Force shall, as appropriate, incorporate the findings of the studies conducted pursuant to subsection (a) in the Air Force's future force development process. The measures—
(1)
should be domain and platform agnostic;
(2)
should focus on how best to achieve mission goals in future operations; and
(3)
shall consider including harnessing cost-per-effect assessments as a key performance parameter within the Department of Defense’s Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) requirements process.
154.
Plan for operational test and utility evaluation of systems for Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft Technology program
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall—
(a)
submit to the congressional defense committees an executable plan for the operational test and utility evaluation of the systems of the Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft Technology (LCAAT) program of the Air Force; and
(b)
brief the congressional defense committees on such plan.
155.
Prohibition on retirement or divestment of A–10 aircraft
The Secretary of Defense may not during fiscal year 2021 divest or retire any A–10 aircraft, in order to ensure ongoing capabilities to counter violent extremism and provide close air support and combat search and rescue in accordance with the National Defense Strategy.
E
Defense-wide, joint, and multiservice matters
171.
Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force: annual plan and certification
(a)
In general
Chapter 9
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 231
the following new section:
231a.
Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force: Annual plan and certification
(a)
Annual aircraft procurement plan and certification
Not later than 45 days after the date on which the President submits to Congress the budget for a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees—
(1)
a plan for the procurement of the aircraft specified in subsection (b) for the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, and the Department of the Air Force developed in accordance with this section; and
(2)
a certification by the Secretary that both the budget for such fiscal year and the future years defense program submitted to Congress in relation to such budget under section 221 of this title provide for funding of the procurement of aircraft at a level that is sufficient for the procurement of the aircraft provided for in the plan under paragraph (1) on the schedule provided in the plan.
(b)
Covered aircraft
The aircraft specified in this subsection are the aircraft as follows:
(1)
Fighter aircraft.
(2)
Attack aircraft.
(3)
Bomber aircraft.
(4)
Intertheater lift aircraft.
(5)
Intratheater lift aircraft.
(6)
Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft.
(7)
Tanker aircraft.
(8)
Remotely piloted aircraft.
(9)
Rotary-wing aircraft.
(10)
Operational support and executive lift aircraft.
(11)
Any other major support aircraft designated by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this section.
(c)
Annual aircraft procurement plan
(1)
The annual aircraft procurement plan developed for a fiscal year for purposes of subsection (a)(1) should be designed so that the aviation force provided for under the plan is capable of supporting the national military strategy of the United States as set forth in the most recent National Defense Strategy submitted under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, and National Military Strategy submitted under section 153(b) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Each annual aircraft procurement plan shall include the following:
(A)
A detailed program for the procurement of the aircraft specified in subsection (b) for each of the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, and the Department of the Air Force over the next 30 fiscal years.
(B)
A description of the necessary aviation force structure to meet the requirements of the national military strategy of the United States or the most recent Quadrennial Defense Review, whichever is applicable under paragraph (1).
(C)
The estimated levels of annual investment funding necessary to carry out each aircraft program, together with a discussion of the procurement strategies on which such estimated levels of annual investment funding are based, set forth in aggregate for the Department of Defense and in aggregate for each military department.
(D)
The estimated level of annual funding necessary to operate, maintain, sustain, and support each aircraft program throughout the life-cycle of the program, set forth in aggregate for the Department of Defense and in aggregate for each military department.
(E)
For each of the cost estimates required by subparagraphs (C) and (D)—
(i)
a description of whether the cost estimate is derived from the cost estimate position of the military department or derived from the cost estimate position of the Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation;
(ii)
if the cost estimate position of the military department and the cost estimate position of the Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation differ by more than 5 percent for any aircraft program, an annotated cost estimate difference and sufficient rationale to explain the difference;
(iii)
the confidence or certainty level associated with the cost estimate for each aircraft program; and
(iv)
a certification that cost between different services and aircraft are based on similar components in the life-cycle cost of each program.
(F)
An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the extent to which the combined aircraft forces of the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, and the Department of the Air Force meet the national security requirements of the United States.
(3)
For any cost estimate required by paragraph (2)(C) or (D), for any aircraft program for which the Secretary is required to include in a report under section 2432 of this title, the source of the cost information used to prepare the annual aircraft plan, shall be sourced from the Selected Acquisition Report data that the Secretary plans to submit to the congressional defense committees in accordance with subsection (f) of that section for the year for which the annual aircraft plan is prepared.
(4)
The annual aircraft procurement plan shall be submitted in unclassified form and shall contain a classified annex. A summary version of the unclassified report shall be made available to the public.
(d)
Assessment when aircraft procurement budget is insufficient to meet applicable requirements
If the budget for a fiscal year provides for funding of the procurement of aircraft for the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, or the Department of the Air Force at a level that is not sufficient to sustain the aviation force structure specified in the aircraft procurement plan for such Department for that fiscal year under subsection (a), the Secretary shall include with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year an assessment that describes and discusses the risks associated with the reduced force structure of aircraft that will result from funding aircraft procurement at such level. The assessment shall be coordinated in advance with the commanders of the combatant commands.
(e)
Annual report on aircraft inventory
(1)
As part of the annual plan and certification required to be submitted under this section, the Secretary shall include a report on the aircraft in the inventory of the Department of Defense. Each such report shall include the following, for the year covered by the report:
(A)
The total number of aircraft in the inventory.
(B)
The total number of the aircraft in the inventory that are active, stated in the following categories (with appropriate subcategories for mission aircraft, training aircraft, dedicated test aircraft, and other aircraft):
(i)
Primary aircraft.
(ii)
Backup aircraft.
(iii)
Attrition and reconstitution reserve aircraft.
(C)
The total number of the aircraft in the inventory that are inactive, stated in the following categories:
(i)
Bailment aircraft.
(ii)
Drone aircraft.
(iii)
Aircraft for sale or other transfer to foreign governments.
(iv)
Leased or loaned aircraft.
(v)
Aircraft for maintenance training.
(vi)
Aircraft for reclamation.
(vii)
Aircraft in storage.
(D)
The aircraft inventory requirements approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(2)
Each report submitted under this subsection shall set forth each item described in paragraph (1) separately for the regular component of each armed force and for each reserve component of each armed force and, for each such component, shall set forth each type, model, and series of aircraft provided for in the future-years defense program that covers the fiscal year for which the budget accompanying the plan, certification and report is submitted.
(f)
Definition of budget
In this section, the term
budget
, with respect to a fiscal year, means the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 231 the following new item:
231a. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force: Annual plan and certification.
.
172.
Authority to use F–35 aircraft withheld from delivery to Government of Turkey
The Secretary of the Air Force is authorized to utilize, modify, and operate the 6 F–35 aircraft that were accepted by the Government of Turkey but never delivered because Turkey was suspended from the F–35 program.
173.
Transfer from Commander of United States Strategic Command to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of responsibilities and functions relating to electromagnetic spectrum operations
(a)
Transfer
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall transition to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as a Chairman's Controlled Activity all of the responsibilities and functions of the Commander of United States Strategic Command that are germane to electromagnetic spectrum operations, including—
(1)
advocacy for joint electronic warfare capabilities,
(2)
providing contingency electronic warfare support to other combatant commands, and
(3)
supporting combatant command joint training and planning related to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(b)
Responsibility of Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as the Electronic Warfare Senior Designated Official
The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as the Electronic Warfare Senior Designated Official, shall be responsible for the following:
(1)
Executing the functions transitioned to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under subsection (a).
(2)
Overseeing, with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the development and implementation of the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy of the Department of Defense and subsequent Department-wide electromagnetic spectrum and electronic warfare strategies.
(3)
Managing the Joint Electronic Warfare Center and the Joint Electromagnetic Preparedness for Advanced Combat organizations.
(4)
Overseeing, through the Joint Requirements Oversight Council and the Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations cross-functional team, the acquisition activities of the military services as they relate to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(5)
Overseeing and, as appropriate, setting standards for the individual and unit training programs of the military services and the joint training and mission rehearsal programs of the combatant commands as they relate to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(6)
Overseeing the development of tactics, techniques, and procedures germane to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(7)
Overseeing the integration of electromagnetic spectrum operations into operation plans and contingency plans.
(8)
Developing and integrating into the joint warfighting concept operational concepts for electromagnetic spectrum operations, including the following:
(A)
The roles and responsibilities of each of the military services and their primary contributions to the joint force.
(B)
The primary targets for offensive electromagnetic spectrum operations and their alignment to the military services and relevant capabilities.
(C)
The armed forces’ positioning, scheme of maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, techniques, and procedures, as appropriate, to conduct offensive electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(D)
The armed forces’ positioning, scheme of maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, techniques, and procedures, as appropriate, to detect, disrupt, avoid, or render ineffective adversary electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(c)
Period of effect of transfer
(1)
In general
The transfer required by subsection (a) and the responsibilities specified in subsection (b) shall remain in effect until such date as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff considers appropriate, except that such date shall not be earlier than the date that is 180 days after the date on which the Chairman submits to the congressional defense committees notice that—
(A)
the Chairman has made a determination that—
(i)
the military services’, geographic combatant commands’, and functional combatant commands’ electromagnetic spectrum operations expertise, capabilities, and execution are sufficiently robust; and
(ii)
an alternative arrangement described in paragraph (2) is justified; and
(B)
the Chairman intends to transfer responsibilities and activities in order to carry out such alternative arrangement.
(2)
Alternative arrangement described
An alternative arrangement described in this paragraph is an arrangement in which certain oversight, advocacy, and coordination functions allotted to the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by subsections (a) and (b) are performed either by a single combatant command or by the individual geographic and functional combatant commands responsible for executing electromagnetic spectrum operations with long-term supervision by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(d)
Evaluations of armed forces
(1)
In general
The Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space Operations shall each conduct and complete an evaluation of the armed forces for their respective military services and their ability to perform the electromagnetic spectrum operations missions required of them in—
(A)
the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy;
(B)
the Joint Staff-developed concept of operations; and
(C)
the operation and contingency plans of the combatant commanders.
(2)
Elements
Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall include assessment of the following:
(A)
Current programs of record, including—
(i)
the ability of weapon systems to perform missions in contested electromagnetic spectrum environments; and
(ii)
the ability of electronic warfare capabilities to disrupt adversary operations.
(B)
Future programs of record, including—
(i)
the need for distributed or network-centric electronic warfare and signals intelligence capabilities; and
(ii)
the need for automated and machine learning- or artificial intelligence-assisted electronic warfare capabilities.
(C)
Order of battle.
(D)
Individual and unit training.
(E)
Tactics, techniques, and procedures, including—
(i)
maneuver, distribution of assets, and the use of decoys; and
(ii)
integration of nonkinetic and kinetic fires.
(e)
Evaluation of combatant commands
(1)
In general
The Commander of the United States European Command, the Commander of the United States Pacific Command, and the Commander of the United States Central Command shall each conduct and complete an evaluation of the plans and posture of their respective commands to execute the electromagnetic spectrum operations envisioned in—
(A)
the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy; and
(B)
the Joint Staff-developed concept of operations.
(2)
Elements
Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall include assessment of the following:
(A)
Operation and contingency plans.
(B)
The manning, organizational alignment, and capability of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations cells.
(C)
Mission rehearsal and exercises.
(D)
Force positioning, posture, and readiness.
(f)
Semiannual briefing
Not less frequently than twice each year until January 1, 2026, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall brief the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on the implementation of this section by each of the Joint Staff, the military services, and the combatant commands.
174.
Cryptographic modernization schedules
(a)
Cryptographic modernization schedules required
Each of the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of relevant defense agencies and field activities shall establish and maintain a cryptographic modernization schedule that specifies, for each pertinent weapon system, command and control system, or data link, including those that use commercial encryption technologies, as relevant, the following:
(1)
The expiration date or cease key date for applicable cryptographic algorithms.
(2)
Anticipated key extension requests for systems where cryptographic modernization is assessed to be overly burdensome and expensive or to provide limited operational utility.
(3)
The funding and deployment schedule for modernized cryptographic algorithms, keys, and equipment over the Future Years Defense Program.
(b)
Requirements for Chief Information Officer
The Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall—
(1)
oversee the construction and implementation of the cryptographic modernization schedules required by subsection (a);
(2)
establish and maintain an integrated cryptographic modernization schedule for the entire Department, collating the cryptographic modernization schedules required under subsection (a); and
(3)
in coordination with the Director of the National Security Agency and the Joint Staff Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber, use the budget certification, standard-setting, and policy-making authorities provided in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, to amend military service and defense agency and field activity plans for key extension requests and cryptographic modernization funding and deployment that pose unacceptable risk to military operations.
(c)
Annual notices
Not later than January 1, 2022, and not less frequently than once each year thereafter until January 1, 2026, the Chief Information Officer of the Department and the Joint Staff Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees notification of all—
(1)
delays to or planned delays of military service and defense agency and field activity funding and deployment of modernized cryptographic algorithms, keys, and equipment over the previous year; and
(2)
changes in plans or schedules surrounding key extension requests and waivers, including—
(A)
unscheduled or unanticipated key extension requests; and
(B)
unscheduled or unanticipated waivers and nonwaivers of scheduled or anticipated key extension requests.
175.
Prohibition on purchase of armed overwatch aircraft
The Secretary of the Air Force may not purchase any aircraft for the Air Force Special Operations Command for the purpose of
armed overwatch
until such time as the Chief of Staff of the Air Force certifies to the congressional defense committees that general purpose forces of the Air Force do not have the skill or capacity to provide close air support and armed overwatch to United States forces deployed operationally.
176.
Special operations armed overwatch
(a)
Prohibition
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for the Department of Defense may be used to acquire armed overwatch aircraft for the United States Special Operations Command, and the Department of Defense may not acquire armed overwatch aircraft for the United States Special Operations Command in fiscal year 2021.
(b)
Analysis required
(1)
In general
Not later than July 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict and the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, shall conduct an analysis to define the special operations-peculiar requirements for armed overwatch aircraft and to determine whether acquisition of a new special operations-peculiar platform is the most cost effective means of fulfilling such requirements.
(2)
Elements
At a minimum, the analysis of alternatives required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
a description of the concept of operations for employing armed overwatch aircraft in support of ground forces;
(B)
an identification of geographic regions in which armed overwatch aircraft could be deployed;
(C)
an identification of the most likely antiaircraft threats in geographic areas where armed overwatch aircraft will be deployed and possible countermeasures to defeat such threats;
(D)
a defined requirement for special operations-peculiar armed overwatch aircraft, including an identification of threshold and objective performance parameters for armed overwatch aircraft;
(E)
an analysis of alternatives comparing various manned and unmanned aircraft in the current aircraft inventory of the United States Special Operations Command and a new platform for meeting requirements for the armed overwatch mission, including for each alternative considered;
(F)
an identification of any necessary aircraft modifications and the associated cost;
(G)
the annual cost of operating and sustaining such aircraft;
(H)
an identification of any required military construction costs;
(I)
an explanation of how the acquisition of a new armed overwatch aircraft would impact the overall fleet of special operations-peculiar aircraft and the availability of aircrews and maintainers;
(J)
an explanation of why existing Air Force and United States Special Operations Command close air support and airborne intelligence capabilities are insufficient for the armed overwatch mission; and
(K)
any other matters determined relevant by the Secretary of Defense.
177.
Autonomic Logistics Information System redesign strategy
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in consultation with the F–35 Program Executive Officer, shall—
(1)
submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing a program-wide process for measuring, collecting, and tracking information on how the Autonomic Logistics Information System (ALIS) is affecting the performance of the F–35 fleet, including its effects on mission capability rates; and
(2)
implement a strategy for the redesign of ALIS, including the identification and assessment of goals, key risks or uncertainties, and costs of redesigning the system.
178.
Contract aviation services in a country or in airspace in which a Special Federal Aviation Regulation applies
(a)
In general
When the Department of Defense contracts for aviation services to be performed in a foreign country, or in airspace, in which a Special Federal Aviation Regulation issued by the Federal Aviation Administration would preclude operation of such aviation services by an air carrier or commercial operator of the United States, the Secretary of Defense (or a designee of the Secretary) shall—
(1)
obtain approval from the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (or a designee of the Administrator) for the air carrier or commercial operator of the United States to deviate from the Special Federal Aviation Regulation to the extent necessary to perform such aviation services;
(2)
designate the aircraft of the air carrier or commercial operator of the United States to be State Aircraft of the United States when performing such aviation services; or
(3)
use organic aircraft to perform such aviation services in lieu of aircraft of an air carrier or commercial operator of the United States.
(b)
Construction of designation
The designation of aircraft of an air carrier or commercial operator of the United States as State Aircraft of the United States under subsection (a)(2) shall have no effect on Federal Aviation Administration requirements for—
(1)
safety oversight responsibility for the operation of aircraft so designated, except for those activities prohibited or restricted by an applicable Special Federal Aviation Regulation; and
(2)
any previously issued nonpremium aviation insurance or reinsurance policy issued to the air carrier or commercial operator of the United States for the duration of aviation services performed as a State Aircraft of the United States under that subsection.
179.
F–35 aircraft munitions
The Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Navy shall qualify and certify, for the use of United States forces, additional munitions on the F–35 aircraft that are already qualified on NATO member F–35 partner aircraft.
180.
Airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance acquisition roadmap for United States Special Operations Command
(a)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict and the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees an acquisition roadmap to meet the manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of United States Special Operations Forces.
(b)
Elements
The roadmap required under subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
A description of the current platform requirements for manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities to support United States Special Operations Forces.
(2)
An analysis of the remaining service life of existing manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities currently operated by United States Special Operations Forces.
(3)
An identification of any current or anticipated special operations-peculiar capability gaps.
(4)
A description of the future manned and unmanned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance platform requirements of the United States Special Operations Forces, including range, payload, endurance, ability to operate in contested environments, and other requirements as appropriate.
(5)
An explanation of the anticipated mix of manned and unmanned aircraft, number of platforms, and associated aircrew and maintainers.
(6)
An explanation of the extent to which service-provided manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities will be required in support of United States Special Operations Forces and how such capabilities will supplement and integrate with the organic capabilities possessed by United States Special Operations Forces.
(7)
Any other matters deemed relevant by the Assistant Secretary and Commander.
181.
Requirement to accelerate the fielding and development of counter unmanned aerial systems across the joint force
(a)
Priority objectives for Executive Agent for C–UAS
The Executive Agent of the Joint Counter Small Unmanned Aerial Systems (C-sUAS) Office, as designated by the Under Secretary of Defense, Acquisition and Sustainment, shall prioritize the following objectives:
(1)
Select counter unmanned aerial systems that can be fielded as early as fiscal year 2021 to meet immediate operational needs in countering Group 1, 2, and 3 unmanned aerial systems with the potential to expand to other larger systems.
(2)
Devise and execute a near-term plan to develop and field a select set of counter unmanned aerial systems to meet joint force requirements, beginning in fiscal year 2021.
(b)
Fielding C–UAS systems in fiscal year 2021
Pursuant to subsection (a)(1), the Executive Agent shall prioritize the selection of counter unmanned aerial systems that can be fielded in fiscal year 2021 with specific emphasis on systems that—
(1)
have undergone effective combat validations;
(2)
meet the operational demands of deployed forces facing the most significant threats, especially unmanned aerial systems that are not remotely piloted or are not reliant on a command link; and
(3)
utilize autonomous systems and processes that increase operational effectiveness, reduce the manning demands on operational forces, and limit the need for government-funded contractor logistics support.
(c)
Near-term development plan
The plan for the near-term development of counter unmanned aerial systems prioritized under subsection (a)(2) shall ensure, at a minimum, that the development of such systems—
(1)
builds, as much as practicable, upon systems that were selected for fielding in fiscal year 2021 and the criteria prioritized for their selection, as specified in subsection (b);
(2)
reduces or accelerates the timeline for initial operational capability and full operational capability;
(3)
utilizes a software-defined, family-of-systems approach that enables the flexible and continuous integration of different types of sensors and mitigation solutions based on the different demands of particular military installations and deployed forces, physical geographies, and threat profiles; and
(4)
gives preference to commercial items, as required in section 3307 of title 41, United States Code, when making selections of counter unmanned aerial systems or component parts, including a common command and control system.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Executive Agent shall brief the congressional defense committees on the selection process for counter unmanned aerial systems capabilities prioritized under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the plan prioritized under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
(e)
Oversight
The Executive Agent shall—
(1)
oversee the program management and execution of all counter unmanned aerial systems being developed within the military departments on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
ensure that the plan prioritized under subsection (a)(2) guides future programmatic and funding decisions for activities relating to counter unmanned aerial systems, including cancellation of such activities.
182.
Joint All Domain Command and Control requirements
(a)
Production of requirements by Joint Requirements Oversight Council
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Joint Requirements and Oversight Council (JROC) shall produce requirements for the Joint All Domain Command and Control (JADC2) program.
(b)
Air Force certification
Immediately after the certification of requirements produced under subsection (a), the Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that the current JADC2 effort, including programmatic and architecture efforts, being led by the Air Force will meet the requirements laid out by the JROC.
(c)
Certification by other services
Not later than January 1, 2021, the chief of each other military service shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification whether that service's efforts on multi-domain command and control are compatible with the Air Force-led JADC2 architecture.
(d)
Budgeting
The Secretary of Defense shall incorporate the expected costs for full development and implementation of the JADC2 program across the Department in the President’s budget submission to Congress for fiscal year 2022 under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
II
Research, development, test, and evaluation
A
Authorization of appropriations
201.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4201.
B
Program requirements, restrictions, and limitations
211.
Designation and activities of senior officials for critical technology areas supportive of the National Defense Strategy
(a)
Designation of senior officials
The Under Secretary for Research and Engineering shall designate a set of senior officials to coordinate research and engineering in such technology areas as the Under Secretary considers critical for the support of the National Defense Strategy.
(b)
Duties
The duties of the senior officials designated under subsection (a) shall include, within their respective technology areas—
(1)
developing and continuously updating research and technology development roadmaps, associated funding strategies, and associated technology transition strategies to ensure effective and efficient development of new capabilities and operational use of appropriate technologies;
(2)
annual assessments of workforce, infrastructure, and industrial base capabilities and capacity to support the roadmaps developed under paragraph (1) and the goals of the National Defense Strategy;
(3)
reviewing the relevant research and engineering budgets of appropriate organizations within the Department of Defense, including the military services, and advising the Under Secretary on—
(A)
the consistency of the budgets with the roadmaps developed under paragraph (1);
(B)
any technical and programmatic risks to achieving the research and technology development goals of the National Defense Strategy; and
(C)
projects and activities with unwanted or inefficient duplication, including with other government agencies and the commercial sector, lack of appropriate coordination with relevant organizations, or inappropriate alignment with organizational missions and capabilities;
(4)
coordinating research and engineering activities of the Department with appropriate international, interagency, and private sector organizations; and
(5)
tasking the appropriate intelligence agencies to develop a direct comparison between the capabilities of the United States and the capabilities of adversaries of the United States.
(c)
Annual reports
(1)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2021, and not later than December 1 of each year thereafter until December 1, 2025, the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report of successful examples of research and engineering activities that have—
(A)
achieved significant technical progress;
(B)
transitioned to formal acquisition programs;
(C)
transitioned into operational use; or
(D)
transferred for further commercial development or commercial sales.
(2)
Form
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a publicly releasable format, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Coordination of research and engineering activities
The Service Acquisition Executive for each military services and the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency shall each identify senior officials to ensure coordination of appropriate research and engineering activities with each of the senior officials designated under subsection (a).
212.
Governance of fifth-generation wireless networking in the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
In carrying out the responsibilities established in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, the Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the Department of Defense shall—
(1)
lead the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection (c); and
(2)
serve as the senior designated official for fifth-generation wireless networking (commonly known as
5G
) policy, oversight, guidance, research, and coordination in the Department.
(b)
Responsibilities
The Chief Information Officer shall have, with respect to authorities referenced in subsection (a), the following responsibilities:
(1)
Proposing governance, management, and organizational policy for fifth-generation wireless networking to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of the constituent organizations of the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection (c).
(2)
Leading the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection (c).
(c)
Cross-functional team for fifth-generation wireless networking
(1)
Establishment required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in accordance with section 911(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 111
note), establish a cross-functional team for fifth-generation wireless networking in order—
(A)
to advance the adoption of commercially available next generation wireless communication technologies, capabilities, security, and applications by the Department of Defense and the defense industrial base; and
(B)
to support public-private partnership between the Department and industry regarding fifth-generation wireless networking.
(2)
Purpose
The purpose of the cross-functional team established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be the—
(A)
oversight of the implementation of the strategy developed as required by section 254 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) for harnessing fifth-generation wireless networking technologies, coordinated across all relevant elements of the Department;
(B)
coordination of research and development, implementation and acquisition activities, warfighting concept development, spectrum policy, industrial policy and commercial outreach and partnership relating to fifth-generation wireless networking in the Department, and interagency and international engagement;
(C)
integration of the Department’s fifth-generation wireless networking programs and policies with major Department initiatives, programs, and policies surrounding secure microelectronics and command and control; and
(D)
oversight, coordination, execution, and leadership of initiatives to advance fifth-generation wireless network technologies and associated applications developed for the Department.
(d)
Roles and responsibilities
The Secretary of Defense, through the cross-functional team established under subsection (c), shall define the roles of the organizations within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Department of Defense intelligence components, military services, defense agencies and field activities, combatant commands, and the Joint Staff, for fifth-generation wireless networking policy and programs within the Department.
(e)
Briefing
Not later than March 15, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the establishment of the cross-functional team pursuant to subsection (c) and the roles and responsibilities defined pursuant to subsection (d).
(f)
Rule of construction
(1)
In general
Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing the Chief Information Officer immediate responsibility for the Department’s activities in fifth-generation wireless networking experimentation and science and technology development.
(2)
Purview of experimentation and science and technology development
The activities described in paragraph (1) shall remain within the purview of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, but shall inform and be informed by the activities of the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection (c).
213.
Application of artificial intelligence to the defense reform pillar of the National Defense Strategy
(a)
Identification of use cases
The Secretary of Defense, acting through such officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary considers appropriate, including the chief data officers and chief management officers of the military departments, shall identify a set of no fewer than five use cases of the application of existing artificial intelligence enabled systems to support improved management of enterprise acquisition, personnel, audit, or financial management functions, or other appropriate management functions, that are consistent with reform efforts that support the National Defense Strategy.
(b)
Prototyping activities aligned to use cases
The Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and in coordination with the Director of the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center and such other officers and employees as the Secretary considers appropriate, shall pilot technology development and prototyping activities that leverage commercially available technologies and systems to demonstrate new artificial intelligence enabled capabilities to support the use cases identified under subsection (a).
(c)
Briefing
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing summarizing the activities carried out under this section.
214.
Extension of authorities to enhance innovation at Department of Defense laboratories
(a)
Extension of pilot program for the enhancement of the research, development, test, and evaluation centers of the Department of Defense
Section 233(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended by striking
September 30, 2022
and inserting
September 30, 2025
.
(b)
Extension of pilot program to improve incentives for technology transfer from Department of Defense laboratories
Subsection (e) of section 233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
;
10 U.S.C. 2514
note) is amended to read as follows:
(e)
Sunset
The pilot program under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2025.
.
215.
Updates to Defense Quantum Information Science and Technology Research and Development program
Section 234 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note), as amended by section 220 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
Use of quantum computing capabilities
The Secretary of each military department shall—
(1)
develop and annually update a list of technical problems and research challenges which are likely to be addressable by quantum computers available for use within in the next one to three years, with a priority for technical problems and challenges where quantum computing systems have performance advantages over traditional computing systems, in order to enhance the capabilities of such quantum computers and support the addressing of relevant technical problems and research challenges; and
(2)
establish programs and enter into agreements with appropriate medium and small businesses with functional quantum computing capabilities to provide such private sector capabilities to government, industry, and academic researchers working on relevant technical problems and research activities.
.
216.
Program of part-time and term employment at Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratories of faculty and students from institutions of higher education
(a)
Program required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to provide part-time or term employment in Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratories for—
(1)
faculty of institutions of higher education who have expertise in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics to conduct research projects in such laboratories; and
(2)
students at such institutions to assist such faculty in conducting such research projects.
(b)
Number of positions
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the commencement of the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall, under such program, establish at least 10 positions of employment described in such subsection for faculty described in paragraph (1) of such subsection.
(2)
Artificial intelligence and machine learning
Of the positions established under paragraph (1), at least five of such positions shall be for faculty conducting research in the area of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
(c)
Selection
The Secretary, acting through the directors of the laboratories described in subsection (a), shall select faculty described in paragraph (1) of such subsection for participation in the program established under such subsection on the basis of—
(1)
the academic credentials and research experience of the faculty;
(2)
the potential contribution to Department objectives by the research that will be conducted by the faculty under the program; and
(3)
the qualifications of any students who will be assisting the faculty in such research and the role and credentials of such students.
(d)
Authorities
In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary and the directors of the laboratories described in such subsection may—
(1)
use any hiring authority available to the Secretary or the directors, including any authority available under a laboratory demonstration program, direct hiring authority under section 1599h of title 10, United States Code, and expert hiring authority under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code;
(2)
utilize cooperative research and development agreements under section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3710a
) to enable sharing of research and expertise with institutions of higher education and the private sector; and
(3)
provide referral bonuses to program participants who identify students to assist in a research project under the program or to participate in laboratory internship programs and the Pathways Internship Program.
(e)
Annual reports
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year thereafter until the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the program established under subsection (a).
(2)
Contents of first report
The first report submitted under paragraph (1) shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(A)
The number of faculty and students employed under the program.
(B)
The laboratories employing such faculty and students.
(C)
The types of research conducted or to be conducted by such faculty or students.
(3)
Contents of subsequent reports
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) after the first report shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(A)
The matters set forth in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (2).
(B)
The number of interns and recent college graduates hired pursuant to referrals under subsection (d)(3).
(C)
The results of research conducted under the program.
(f)
Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory defined
In this section, the term
Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory
means the entities designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note).
217.
Improvements to Technology and National Security Fellowship of Department of Defense
(a)
Modification regarding basic pay
Subsection (a)(4)(A) of section 235 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
equivalent to
and inserting
not less than
; and
(2)
by inserting
and not more than the rate of basic pay payable for a position at level 15 of such schedule
before the semicolon.
(b)
Background checks
Subsection (b) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Background check requirement
No individual may participate in the fellows program without first undergoing a background check that the Secretary considers appropriate for participation in the fellows program.
.
218.
Department of Defense research, development, and deployment of technology to support water sustainment
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall research, develop, and deploy advanced technologies that support water sustainment with technologies that capture ambient humidity and harvest, recycle, and reuse water.
(b)
Goal
Under subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek to develop water systems that reduce weight and logistics support and transition such advanced technologies for use by expeditionary forces by January 1, 2025.
(c)
Modular platforms
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop the following:
(1)
Modular platforms that are easily transportable.
(2)
Trailer mounted systems that will reduce resupply.
(3)
Storage requirements at forward operating bases.
(d)
Partnerships and existing techniques and technologies
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek—
(1)
to enter into partnerships with foreign militaries and organizations that have proven they have the ability to operate in water constrained areas;
(2)
to leverage existing techniques and technologies; and
(3)
to apply such techniques and technologies to military operations carried out by the United States.
(e)
Commercial off-the-shelf technologies
In carrying out subsection (a), in addition to technology described in such subsection, the Secretary shall consider using commercial off-the-shelf technologies for cost savings and near ready deployment technologies to enable warfighters to be more self-sufficient.
(f)
Cross functional teams
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall establish cross functional teams to determine regions where deployment of water harvesting technologies could reduce conflict and potentially eliminate the need for the presence of the Armed Forces.
219.
Development and testing of hypersonic capabilities
(a)
Sense of Congress on hypersonic capabilities
It is the sense of Congress that development of hypersonic capabilities is a key element of the National Defense Strategy.
(b)
Improving ground-based test facilities
The Secretary of Defense shall take such actions as may be necessary to improve ground-based test facilities for the development of hypersonic capabilities, such as improving wind tunnels.
(c)
Increasing flight test rate
The Secretary shall increase the flight test rate to expedite the maturation and fielding of hypersonic technologies.
(d)
Strategy and plan
(1)
In general
Not later than December 30, 2020, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall submit to the congressional defense committees an executable strategy and plan to field air-launched and air-breathing hypersonic weapons capability before the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Testing and infrastructure
The strategy and plan submitted under paragraph (1) shall cover required investments in testing and infrastructure to address the need for both flight and ground testing.
220.
Disclosure requirements for recipients of Department of Defense research and development grants
(a)
Disclosure requirements
(1)
In general
Chapter 139
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2374b.
Disclosure requirements for recipients of research and development grants
An individual or entity (including a State or local government) that receives Department of Defense grant funds for research and development shall clearly state in any statement, press release, or other document describing the program, project, or activity funded through such grant funds, other than a communication containing not more than 280 characters, the dollar amount of Department grant funds made available for the program, project, or activity.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 139
of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipients of research and development grants.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2021, and shall apply with respect to grants for research and development that are awarded by the Department of Defense on or after that date.
C
Plans, reports, and other matters
231.
Assessment on United States national security emerging biotechnology efforts and capabilities and comparison with adversaries
(a)
Assessment and comparison required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, shall conduct an assessment and direct comparison of capabilities in emerging biotechnologies for national security purposes, including applications in material, manufacturing, and health, between the capabilities of the United States and the capabilities of adversaries of the United States.
(2)
Elements
The assessment and comparison carried out under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An evaluation of the quantity, quality, and progress of United States fundamental and applied research for emerging biotechnology initiatives for national security purposes.
(B)
An assessment of the resourcing of United States efforts to harness emerging biotechnology capabilities for national security purposes, including the supporting facilities, test infrastructure, and workforce.
(C)
An intelligence assessment of adversary emerging biotechnology capabilities and research as well as an assessment of adversary intent and willingness to use emerging biotechnologies for national security purposes.
(D)
An assessment of the analytic and operational subject matter expertise necessary to assess rapidly-evolving foreign military developments in biotechnology, and the current state of the workforce in the intelligence community
(E)
Recommendations to improve and accelerate United States capabilities in emerging biotechnologies and the associated intelligence community expertise.
(F)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the assessment carried out under subsection (a).
(2)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in the following formats—
(A)
unclassified form, which may include a classified annex; and
(B)
publically releasable form, representing appropriate information from the report under subparagraph (A).
(c)
Definition of intelligence community
In this subsection, the term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
232.
Independent comparative analysis of efforts by China and the United States to recruit and retain researchers in national security-related fields
(a)
Agreement
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to perform the services covered by this section.
(2)
Timing
The Secretary shall seek to enter into the agreement described in paragraph (1) not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Review
(1)
In general
Under an agreement between the Secretary and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine under this section, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall carry out a comparative analysis of efforts by China and the United States Government to recruit and retain domestic and foreign researchers and develop recommendations for the Department of Defense.
(2)
Elements
The comparative analysis carried out under paragraph (1) and the recommendations developed under such paragraph shall include the following:
(A)
A list of the
talent programs
used by China and a list of the incentive programs used by the United States to recruit and retain relevant researchers.
(B)
The types of researchers, scientists, other technical experts, and fields targeted by each talent program listed under subparagraph (A).
(C)
The number of researchers in academia, the Department of Defense Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories, and national security science and engineering programs of the National Nuclear Security Administration targeted by the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A).
(D)
The number of personnel currently participating in the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A) and the number of researchers currently participating in the incentive programs listed under such subparagraph.
(E)
The incentives offered by each of the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A) and a description of the incentives offered through incentive programs under such subparagraph to recruit and retain researchers, scientists, and other technical experts.
(F)
A characterization of the national security, economic, and scientific benefits China gains through the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A) and a description of similar gains accrued to the United States through incentive programs listed under such subparagraph.
(G)
A list of findings and recommendations relating to policies that can be implemented by the United States, especially the Department of Defense, to improve the relative effectiveness of United States activities to recruit and retain researchers, scientists, and other technical experts relative to China.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the execution of an agreement under subsection (a), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine with respect to the review carried out under this section and the recommendations developed under this section.
(2)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified formats, but may include a classified annex.
233.
Department of Defense demonstration of virtualized radio access network and massive multiple input multiple output radio arrays for fifth generation wireless networking
(a)
Demonstration required
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a demonstration to demonstrate the maturity, performance, and cost of covered technologies in order to provide additional options for providers of fifth-generation (5G) wireless networking services.
(b)
Covered technologies
For purposes of this section, a covered technology is—
(1)
a disaggregated or virtualized radio access network and core where components can be provided by different vendors and interoperate through open protocols and interfaces; and
(2)
one or more massive multiple input and multiple output radio arrays provided by United States companies that have the potential to compete favorably with radios produced by foreign companies in terms of cost, performance, and efficiency.
(c)
Location
The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration under subsection (a) at at least one site where the Secretary of Defense plans to deploy a fifth-generation wireless network.
(d)
Coordination
The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration under subsection (a) in coordination with at least one major United States wireless network service provider.
234.
Independent technical review of Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48
(a)
Agreement
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to perform the services covered by this section.
(2)
Timing
The Secretary shall seek to enter into the agreement described in paragraph (1) not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Independent technical review
(1)
In general
Under an agreement between the Secretary and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine under subsection (a), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall carry out an independent technical review of the Order and Authorization adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–48), to the extent that such order and authorization affects the devices, operations, or activities of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Elements
The independent technical review carried out under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Comparison of the two different approaches on which the Commission relied for the order and authorized described in paragraph (1) to evaluate the potential harmful interference concerns relating to Global Positioning System devices, with a recommendation on which method most effectively mitigates risks of harmful interference with Global Positioning System devices of the Department, or relating to or with the potential to affect the operations and activities of the Department.
(B)
Assessment of the potential for harmful interference to mobile satellite services, including commercial services and Global Positioning System services of the Department, or relating to or with the potential to affect the operations and activities of the Department.
(C)
Review of the feasibility, practicality, and effectiveness of the proposed mitigation measures relating to, or with the potential to affect, the devices, operations, or activities of the Department.
(D)
Development of recommendations associated with the findings of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine in carrying out the independent technical review.
(E)
Such other matters as the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine determines relevant.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Under an agreement between the Secretary and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine under subsection (a), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall, not later than nine months after the date of the execution of such agreement, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine with respect to the independent technical review carried out under subsection (b) and the recommendations developed pursuant to such review.
(2)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified formats, but may include a classified annex.
235.
Report on micro nuclear reactor programs
(a)
Report required
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the micro nuclear reactor programs of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Contents
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Potential operational uses on United States and non-United States territory, including both mobile and fixed systems.
(2)
Cost and schedule estimates for each new or ongoing program to reach initial operational capability, including the timeline for transition of any program currently funded using defense-wide funds to one or more military services and the identified transition partner in such military services.
(3)
In consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense programs, an assessment of physical security requirements for use of such reactors on domestic military installations and non-United States nondomestic installations or locations, including fully permissive, semi-permissive, and remote environments, including a preliminary design basis threat analysis.
(4)
In coordination with the Secretary of State—
(A)
an assessment of any agreements or changes to agreements that would be required for use of such reactors on non-United States territory;
(B)
an assessment of applicability of foreign regulations or International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards for use on non-United States territory; and
(C)
other policy implications of deployment of such systems on non-United States territory.
(5)
In coordination with the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a summary of licensing requirements for operation of such systems on United States territory.
(6)
A summary of requirements pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) for development and operation on United States territory.
(7)
In consultation with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, an assessment of any issues relating to indemnification for operation on United States or non-United States territory and any other relevant legal matters.
(8)
In coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, a determination of whether development, production, and deployment of such systems would require unobligated enriched uranium fuel.
(9)
If the determination in paragraph (8) is that unobligated fuel would be required, in coordination with the Administrator for Nuclear Security, an assessment of the availability of such unobligated enriched uranium fuel, by year, for the estimated life of the program, considered with other United States Government demands for such fuel, including tritium production, naval nuclear propulsion, and medical isotope production.
(10)
Any other considerations the Secretary determines relevant.
(c)
Consultation
In addition to consultation and coordination required under subsection (b), the Secretary shall, in producing the report required by subsection (a), consult with the Secretary of the Army, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Director of Naval Nuclear Propulsion, and such other officials as the Secretary considers necessary.
(d)
Form
The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Natural Resources, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The term
micro nuclear reactor
means a nuclear reactor with a production capacity of less than 20 megawatts.
236.
Modification to Test Resource Management Center strategic plan reporting cycle and contents
(a)
Quadrennial strategic plan
Section 196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsections (c)(1)(C) and (e)(2)(B), by inserting
quadrennial
before
strategic plan
; and
(2)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in the heading, by inserting
Quadrennial
before
Strategic plan
; and
(B)
by inserting
quadrennial
before
strategic plan
each place it occurs.
(b)
Timing and coverage of plan
Subsection (d)(1) of such section, as amended by subsection (a)(2), is further amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
two fiscal years
and inserting
four fiscal years, and within one year after release of the National Defense Strategy,
; and
(2)
in the second sentence, by striking
thirty fiscal years
and inserting
15 fiscal years
.
(c)
Amendment to contents of plan
Subsection (d)(2) of such section, as amended by subsection (a)(2), is further amended—
(1)
by striking subparagraph (B);
(2)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (G) as subparagraphs (B) through (F), respectively; and
(3)
in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking
based on current
and all that follows through the end and inserting
for test and evaluation of the Department of Defense major weapon systems based on current and emerging threats.
.
(d)
Annual update to plan
Subsection (d) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
(A)
In addition to the quadrennial strategic plan completed under paragraph (1), the Director of the Department of Defense Test Resource Management Center shall also complete an annual update to the quadrennial strategic plan.
(B)
Each annual update completed under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
A summary of changes to the assessment provided in the most recent quadrennial strategic plan.
(ii)
Comments and recommendations the Director considers appropriate.
(iii)
Test and evaluation challenges raised since the completion of the most recent quadrennial strategic plan.
(iv)
Actions taken or planned to address such challenges.
.
(e)
Technical correction
Subsection (d)(1) of such, as amended by subsections (a)(2) and (b), is further amended by striking
Test Resources Management Center
and inserting
Test Resource Management Center
.
237.
Limitation on contract awards for certain unmanned vessels
(a)
Limitation
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 201 for research, development, test, and evaluation may be used for the award of a contract for a covered vessel until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering submits to the congressional defense committees a report and certification described in subsection (c) for such contract and covered vessel.
(b)
Covered vessels
For purposes of this section, a covered vessel is one of the following:
(1)
A large unmanned surface vessel (LUSV).
(2)
A medium unmanned surface vehicle (MUSV).
(3)
A large displacement unmanned undersea vehicle (LDUUV).
(4)
An extra-large unmanned undersea vehicle (XLUUV).
(c)
Report and certification described
A report and certification described in this subsection regarding a contract for a covered vessel is—
(1)
a report—
(A)
submitted to the congressional defense committees not later than 60 days after the date of the completion of an independent technical risk assessment for such covered vessel; and
(B)
on the findings of the Under Secretary with respect to such assessment; and
(2)
a certification, submitted to the congressional defense committees with the report described in paragraph (1), that certifies that—
(A)
the Under Secretary has determined, in conjunction with the Senior Technical Authority designated under section 8669b(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, for the class of naval vessels that includes the covered vessel, that the critical mission, hull, mechanical, and electrical subsystems of the covered vessel—
(i)
have been demonstrated in vessel-representative form, fit, and function; and
(ii)
have achieved performance levels equal to or greater than applicable Department of Defense threshold requirements for such class of vessels; and
(B)
such contract is necessary to meet Department research, development, test, and evaluation objectives for such covered vessel that cannot otherwise be met through further land-based subsystem prototyping or other demonstration approaches.
(d)
Critical mission, hull, mechanical, and electrical subsystems defined
In this section, the term
critical mission, hull, mechanical, and electrical subsystems
, with respect to a covered vessel, includes the following subsystems:
(1)
Command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
(2)
Autonomous vessel navigation, vessel control, contact management, and contact avoidance.
(3)
Communications security, including cryptopgraphy, encryption, and decryption.
(4)
Main engines, including the lube oil, fuel oil, and other supporting systems.
(5)
Electrical generation and distribution, including supporting systems.
(6)
Military payloads.
(7)
Any other subsystem identified as critical by the Senior Technical Authority designated under section 8669b(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, for the class of naval vessels that includes the covered vessel.
238.
Documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management System
(a)
Documentation required
Immediately upon the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees the following documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management System:
(1)
A list that identifies each program, project, and activity that contributes to the architecture of the Advanced Battle Management System.
(2)
The final analysis of alternatives for the Advanced Battle Management System.
(3)
The requirements for the networked data architecture necessary for the Advanced Battle Management System to provide multidomain command and control and battle management capabilities and a development schedule for such architecture.
(b)
Limitation
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for operations and maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, not more than 25 percent may be obligated until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense committees the documentation required by subsection (a) and the Vice Chairman of the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs certifies the documentation.
(c)
Advanced Battle Management System
In this section, the term
Advanced Battle Management System
means the Advanced Battle Management System of Systems capability of the Air Force, including each program, project, and activity that contributes to such capability.
239.
Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery Test special purpose adjunct to address computational thinking
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a special purpose test adjunct to the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery test to address computational thinking skills relevant to military applications, including problem decomposition, abstraction, pattern recognition, analytical ability, the identification of variables involved in data representation, and the ability to create algorithms and solution expressions.
240.
Report on use of testing facilities to research and develop hypersonic technology
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the costs and benefits of the use and potential refurbishment of existing operating and mothballed Federal research and testing facilities to support hypersonics activities of the Department of Defense.
241.
Study and plan on the use of additive manufacturing and three-dimensional bioprinting in support of the warfighter
(a)
Study
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the use of additive manufacturing and three-dimensional bioprinting across the Military Health System.
(b)
Elements
The study required by subsection (a) shall examine the activities currently underway by each of the military services and the Department agencies, including costs, sources of funding, oversight, collaboration, and outcomes.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
242.
Element in annual reports on cyber science and technology activities on work with academic consortia on high priority cybersecurity research activities in Department of Defense capabilities
Section 257(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
; 133 Sta. 1291) is amended by adding at end the following new subparagraph:
(J)
Efforts to work with academic consortia on high priority cybersecurity research activities.
.
III
Operation and maintenance
A
Authorization of appropriations
301.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 4301.
B
Energy and environment
311.
Modifications and technical corrections to ensure restoration of contamination by perfluorooctane sulfonate and perfluorooctanoic acid
(a)
Definition for PFOA and PFOS
Section 2700 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
The term
perfluorooctane sulfonate
means perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or sulfonate (commonly referred to as
PFOS
) (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 1763–23–1) and the salts associated with perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or sulfonate (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 2795–39–3, 29457–72–5, 56773–42–3, 29081–56–9, and 70225–14–8).
(5)
The term
perfluorooctanoic acid
means perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly referred to as
PFOA
) (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 335–67–1) and the salts associated with perfluorooctanoic acid (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 3825–26–1, 335–95–5, and 68141–02–6).
.
(b)
Modification of environmental restoration accounts
Section 2703 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (e)(2), by striking
environmental
;
(2)
in subsection (f), by striking
to the Environmental Restoration Account, Defense, or to any environmental restoration account of a military department,
and inserting
or transferred to an account established under subsection (a)
;
(3)
by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following:
(g)
Sole source of funds for responses under this chapter
Except as provided in subsection (h), the sole source of funds for all phases of a response under this chapter shall be the applicable environmental restoration account established under subsection (a).
; and
(4)
in subsection (h)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by striking
environmental remediation
and inserting
responses
; and
(B)
by striking
services procured under section 2701(d)(1) of this title
and inserting
a response
.
(c)
Modification of authority for environmental restoration projects of National Guard
(1)
In general
Section 2707(e) of such title is amended—
(A)
by striking
Notwithstanding
and inserting
(1) Notwithstanding
;
(B)
by inserting
where military activities are conducted by the National Guard of a State under title 32
after
facility
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
The Secretary concerned may use the authority under section 2701(d) of this title to carry out environmental restoration projects under paragraph (1).
.
(2)
Correction of definition of facility
Paragraph (2) of section 2700 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
(A) The terms
and inserting
The terms
; and
(B)
by striking subparagraph (B).
(d)
Extension of contract authority
Section 2708(b) of such title is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
fiscal years 1992 through 1996
and inserting
a period specified in paragraph (3)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
A period specified in this paragraph is—
(A)
the period of fiscal years 1992 through 1996; or
(B)
on or after the date of the enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
.
(e)
Technical consistency for munitions response
(1)
Program goals
Section 2701(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking
of unexploded ordnance
and inserting
of unexploded ordnance, discarded military munitions, and munitions constituents in a manner consistent with section 2710 of this title
.
(2)
Environmental restoration accounts
Section 2703(b) of such title is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting the following new sentence:
Such remediation shall be conducted in a manner consistent with section 2710 of this title.
.
(3)
Transfer of definitions
(A)
Transfer
Paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2710(e) of such title are—
(i)
transferred to section 2700 of such title;
(ii)
added at the end of such section; and
(iii)
redesignated as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively.
(B)
Redesignation of definitions
Section 2710(e) of such title is amended by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (7) as paragraphs (2) through (5), respectively.
(4)
Conforming amendments
Section 313(d) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
;
10 U.S.C. 2710
note) is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
by striking
discarded military munitions
,
munitions constituents
, and
defense sites
and inserting
discarded military munitions
and
munitions constituents
; and
(ii)
by striking
section 2710(e)
and inserting
section 2700
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
The term
defense site
has the meaning given such term in section 2710(e) of such title.
.
(f)
Technical correction regarding cooperative agreements
Section 332(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
shall meet or exceed the most stringent of the following
and inserting
relating to a response shall reflect application to the response of the most protective of the following
.
312.
Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program technical edits and clarification
(a)
Use of funds
Section 2684a(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Funds obligated to carry out an agreement under this section shall be available for use with regard to any property in the geographic scope specified in the agreement—
(A)
at the time the funds are obligated; and
(B)
in any subsequent modification to the agreement.
.
(b)
Clarification of references to eligible entities
(1)
Definition
Subsection (b) of section 2684a of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
An agreement under this section may be entered into with
and inserting
For purposes of this section, an eligible entity is
.
(2)
Acquisition of property and interests
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended by striking
the entity or entities
each place it appears and inserting
an eligible entity or entities
.
(3)
Retroactive application
The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply to any agreement entered into under section 2684a of title 10, United States Code, on or after December 2, 2002.
313.
Survey and market research of technologies for phase out by Department of Defense of use of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam
(a)
Survey of technologies and market research
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a survey and market research of relevant technologies, other than fire-fighting agent solutions, to determine whether any such technologies are available and can be adapted quickly for use by the Department of Defense to execute the phase-out by the Department of the use of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam.
(2)
Technologies included
The technologies surveyed or researched under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Hangar flooring systems.
(B)
Liquid drainage flood assemblies.
(C)
Fire-fighting agent delivery systems.
(D)
Containment systems.
(E)
Such other relevant technologies as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b)
Briefing
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the results of the survey and market research conducted under subsection (a).
(2)
Elements of briefing
The briefing required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the technologies surveyed and researched under subsection (a).
(B)
An identification of any such technologies that were considered for further testing or analysis.
(C)
An identification of any other technologies useful for the phase-out by the Department of the use of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam that are undergoing additional analysis for possible application within the Department.
314.
Modification of authority to carry out military installation resilience projects
(a)
Modification of authority
Section 2815 of title 10, United States Code is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
(except as provided in subsections (d)(3) and (e))
before the period at the end;
(2)
in subsection (c), by striking
A project
and inserting
Except as provided in subsection (e)(2), a project
;
(3)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
(4)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsections:
(d)
Location of projects
Projects carried out pursuant to this section may be carried out—
(1)
on a military installation;
(2)
on a facility used by the Department of Defense that is owned and operated by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, even if the facility is not under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, if the Secretary of Defense determines that the facility is subject to significant use by the armed forces for testing or training; or
(3)
outside of a military installation or facility described in paragraph (2) if the Secretary concerned determines that the project would preserve or enhance the resilience of—
(A)
a military installation;
(B)
a facility described in paragraph (2); or
(C)
community infrastructure determined by the Secretary concerned to be necessary to maintain, improve, or rapidly reestablish installation mission assurance and mission-essential functions.
(e)
Alternative funding source
(1)
In carrying out a project under this section, the Secretary concerned may use amounts available for operation and maintenance for the military department concerned if the Secretary concerned submits a notification to the congressional defense committees of the decision to carry out the project using such amounts and includes in the notification—
(A)
the current estimate of the cost of the project;
(B)
the source of funds for the project; and
(C)
a certification that deferral of the project for inclusion in the next Military Construction Authorization Act would be inconsistent with national security or the protection of health, safety, or environmental quality, as the case may be.
(2)
A project carried out under this section using amounts under paragraph (1) may be carried out only after the end of the 7-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification described in paragraph (1) is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.
(3)
The maximum aggregate amount that the Secretary concerned may obligate from amounts available to the military department concerned for operation and maintenance in any fiscal year for projects under the authority of this subsection is $100,000,000.
.
(b)
Consideration of military installation resilience in agreements and interagency cooperation
Section 2684a of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (2)(B)—
(i)
by striking clause (ii); and
(ii)
in clause (i)—
(I)
by striking
(i)
; and
(II)
by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
(3)
maintaining or improving military installation resilience; or
; and
(2)
by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:
(h)
Interagency cooperation in conservation and resilience programs to avoid or reduce adverse impacts on military installation resilience and military readiness activities
In order to facilitate interagency cooperation and enhance the effectiveness of actions that will protect the environment, military installation resilience, and military readiness, the recipient of funds provided pursuant to an agreement under this section or under the Sikes Act (
16 U.S.C. 670
et seq.) may, with regard to the lands and waters within the scope of the agreement, use such funds to satisfy any matching funds or cost-sharing requirement of any conservation or resilience program of any Federal agency notwithstanding any limitation of such program on the source of matching or cost-sharing funds.
.
315.
Native American Indian lands environmental mitigation program
(a)
In general
Chapter 160
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2712.
Native American lands environmental mitigation program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Defense may establish and carry out a program to mitigate the environmental effects of actions by the Department of Defense on Indian lands and culturally connected locations.
(b)
Program activities
The activities that may be carried out under the program established under subsection (a) are the following:
(1)
Identification, investigation, and documentation of suspected environmental effects attributable to past actions by the Department of Defense.
(2)
Development of mitigation options for such environmental effects, including development of cost-to-complete estimates and a system for prioritizing mitigation actions.
(3)
Direct mitigation actions that the Secretary determines are necessary and appropriate to mitigate the adverse environmental effects of past actions by the Department.
(4)
Demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and structures used by, under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used by or under the jurisdiction of the Department.
(5)
Training, technical assistance, and administrative support to facilitate the meaningful participation of Indian tribes in mitigation actions under the program.
(6)
Development and execution of a policy governing consultation with Indian tribes that have been or may be affected by action by the Department, including training personnel of the Department to ensure compliance with the policy.
(c)
Cooperative agreements
(1)
In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may enter into a cooperative agreement with an Indian tribe or an instrumentality of tribal government.
(2)
Notwithstanding
chapter 63
of title 31, a cooperative agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or services for the direct benefit of the United States Government.
(3)
A cooperative agreement under this section for the procurement of severable services may begin in one fiscal year and end in another fiscal year only if the total period of performance does not exceed two calendar years.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Indian land
includes—
(A)
any land located within the boundaries and a part of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
(B)
any land that has been allotted to an individual Indian but has not been conveyed to such Indian with full power of alienation;
(C)
Alaska Native village and regional corporation lands; and
(D)
lands and waters upon which any Federally recognized Indian tribe has rights reserved by treaty, act of Congress, or action by the President.
(2)
The term
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Native village, Regional Corporation, or Village Corporation (as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (
43 U.S.C. 1602
)), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(3)
The term
culturally connected location
means a location or place that has demonstrable significance to Indians or Alaska Natives based on its association with the traditional beliefs, customs, and practices of a living community, including locations or places where religious, ceremonial, subsistence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways practices have historically taken place.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 160 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2711 the following new item:
2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.
.
316.
Energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2919
the following new section:
2920.
Energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations
(a)
Energy resilience measures
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall, by the end of fiscal year 2030, provide that 100 percent of the energy load required to maintain the critical missions of each installation have a minimum level of availability of 99.9 percent per fiscal year.
(2)
The Secretary of Defense shall issue standards establishing levels of availability relative to specific critical missions, with such standards providing a range of not less than 99.9 percent availability per fiscal year and not more than 99.9999 percent availability per fiscal year, depending on the criticality of the mission.
(3)
The Secretary may establish interim goals to take effect prior to fiscal year 2025 to ensure the requirements under this subsection are met.
(4)
The Secretary of each military department and the head of each Defense Agency shall ensure that their organizations meet the requirements of this subsection.
(b)
Planning
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall require the Secretary of each military department and the head of each Defense Agency to plan for the provision of energy resilience and energy security for installations.
(2)
Planning under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
promote the use of multiple and diverse sources of energy, with an emphasis favoring energy resources originating on the installation such as modular generation;
(B)
promote installing microgrids to ensure the energy security and energy resilience of critical missions; and
(C)
favor the use of full-time, installed energy sources rather than emergency generation.
(c)
Development of information
The planning required by subsection (b) shall identify each of the following for each installation:
(1)
The critical missions of the installation.
(2)
The energy requirements of those critical missions.
(3)
The duration that those energy requirements are likely to be needed in the event of a disruption or emergency.
(4)
The current source of energy provided to those critical missions.
(5)
The duration that the currently provided energy would likely be available in the event of a disruption or emergency.
(6)
Any currently available sources of energy that would provide uninterrupted energy to critical missions in the event of a disruption or emergency.
(7)
Alternative sources of energy that could be developed to provide uninterrupted energy to critical missions in the event of a disruption or emergency.
(d)
Testing and measuring
(1)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense shall require the Secretary of each military department and head of each Defense Agency to conduct monitoring, measuring, and testing to provide the data necessary to comply with this section.
(B)
Any data provided under subparagraph (A) shall be made available to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment upon request.
(2)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense shall require that black start exercises be conducted to assess the energy resilience and energy security of installations for periods established to evaluate the ability of the installation to perform critical missions without access to off-installation energy resources.
(B)
A black start exercise conducted under subparagraph (A) may exclude, if technically feasible, housing areas, commissaries, exchanges, and morale, welfare, and recreation facilities.
(C)
The Secretary of Defense shall—
(i)
provide uniform policy for the military departments and the Defense Agencies with respect to conducting black start exercises; and
(ii)
establish a schedule of black start exercises for the military departments and the Defense Agencies, with each military department and Defense Agency scheduled to conduct such an exercise on a number of installations each year sufficient to allow that military department or Defense Agency to meet the goals of this section, but in any event not fewer than five installations each year for each military department through fiscal year 2027.
(D)
(i)
Except as provided in clause (ii), the Secretary of each military department shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, conduct black start exercises in accordance with the schedule provided for in subparagraph (C)(ii), with any such exercise not to last longer than five days.
(ii)
The Secretary of a military department may conduct more black start exercises than those identified in the schedule provided for in subparagraph (C)(ii).
(e)
Contract requirements
For contracts for energy and utility services, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
specify methods and processes to measure, manage, and verify compliance with subsection (a); and
(2)
ensure that such contracts include requirements appropriate to ensure energy resilience and energy security, including requirements for metering to measure, manage, and verify energy consumption, availability, and reliability consistent with this section and the energy resilience metrics and standards under section 2911(b) of this title.
(f)
Exception
This section does not apply to fuels used in aircraft, vessels, or motor vehicles.
(g)
Report
If by the end of fiscal year 2029, the Secretary determines that the Department will be unable to meet the requirements under subsection (a), not later than 90 days after the end of such fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report detailing—
(1)
the projected shortfall;
(2)
reasons for the projected shortfall;
(3)
any statutory, technological, or monetary impediments to achieving such requirements;
(4)
any impact to readiness or ability to meet the national defense posture; and
(5)
any other relevant information as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
availability
means the availability of required energy at a stated instant of time or over a stated period of time for a specific purpose.
(2)
The term
black start exercise
means an exercise in which delivery of energy provided from off an installation is terminated before backup generation assets on the installation are turned on. Such an exercise shall—
(A)
determine the ability of the backup systems to start independently, transfer the load, and carry the load until energy from off the installation is restored;
(B)
align organizations with critical missions to coordinate in meeting critical mission requirements;
(C)
validate mission operation plans, such as continuity of operations plans;
(D)
identify infrastructure interdependencies; and
(E)
verify backup electric power system performance.
(3)
The term
critical mission
—
(A)
means those aspects of the missions of an installation, including mission essential operations, that are critical to successful performance of the strategic national defense mission;
(B)
may include operational headquarters facilities, airfields and supporting infrastructure, harbor facilities supporting naval vessels, munitions production and storage facilities, missile fields, radars, satellite control facilities, cyber operations facilities, space launch facilities, operational communications facilities, and biological defense facilities; and
(C)
does not include military housing (including privatized military housing), morale, welfare, and recreation facilities, exchanges, commissaries, or privately owned facilities.
(4)
The term
energy
means electricity, natural gas, steam, chilled water, and heated water.
(5)
The term
installation
has the meaning given the term
military installation
in section 2801(c)(4) of this title.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of chapter 173 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2919 the following new item:
2920. Energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations.
.
317.
Modification to availability of energy cost savings for Department of Defense
Section 2912(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
and, in the case of operational energy, from both training and operational missions,
after
under section 2913 of this title,
.
318.
Long-duration demonstration initiative and joint program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of the Environmental Security Technology Certification Program of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Director of ARPA–E
The term
Director of ARPA–E
means the Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency—Energy.
(3)
Initiative
The term
Initiative
means the demonstration initiative established under subsection (b).
(4)
Joint Program
The term
Joint Program
means the joint program established under subsection (d).
(b)
Establishment of Initiative
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish a demonstration initiative composed of demonstration projects focused on the development of long-duration energy storage technologies.
(c)
Selection of projects
To the maximum extent practicable, in selecting demonstration projects to participate in the Initiative, the Director shall—
(1)
ensure a range of technology types;
(2)
ensure regional diversity among projects; and
(3)
consider bulk power level, distribution power level, behind-the-meter, microgrid (grid-connected or islanded mode), and off-grid applications.
(d)
Joint Program
(1)
Establishment
As part of the Initiative, the Director, in consultation with the Director of ARPA–E, shall establish within the Department of Defense a joint program to carry out projects—
(A)
to demonstrate promising long-duration energy storage technologies at different scales to promote energy resiliency; and
(B)
to help new, innovative long-duration energy storage technologies become commercially viable.
(2)
Memorandum of understanding
Not later than 200 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Director of ARPA–E to administer the Joint Program.
(3)
Infrastructure
In carrying out the Joint Program, the Director and the Director of ARPA–E shall—
(A)
use existing test-bed infrastructure at—
(i)
installations of the Department of Defense; and
(ii)
facilities of the Department of Energy; and
(B)
develop new infrastructure for identified projects, if appropriate.
(4)
Goals and metrics
The Director and the Director of ARPA–E shall develop goals and metrics for technological progress under the Joint Program consistent with energy resilience and energy security policies.
(5)
Selection of projects
(A)
In general
To the maximum extent practicable, in selecting projects to participate in the Joint Program, the Director and the Director of ARPA–E shall—
(i)
ensure that projects are carried out under conditions that represent a variety of environments with different physical conditions and market constraints; and
(ii)
ensure an appropriate balance of—
(I)
larger, higher-cost projects; and
(II)
smaller, lower-cost projects.
(B)
Priority
In carrying out the Joint Program, the Director and the Director of ARPA–E shall give priority to demonstration projects that—
(i)
make available to the public project information that will accelerate deployment of long-duration energy storage technologies that promote energy resiliency; and
(ii)
will be carried out in the field.
319.
Pilot program on alternative fuel vehicle purchasing
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the General Services Administration, shall carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary of Defense may, notwithstanding section 400AA of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
42 U.S.C. 6374
), purchase new alternative fuel vehicles for which the initial cost of such vehicles exceeds the initial cost of a comparable gasoline or diesel fueled vehicle by not more than 10 percent.
(b)
Locations
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) at not fewer than 2 facilities or installations of the Department of Defense in the continental United States that—
(A)
have the largest total number of attached noncombat vehicles as compared to other facilities or installations of the Department of Defense; and
(B)
are located within 20 miles of public or private refueling or recharging stations.
(2)
Air Force Logistics Center
One of the facilities or installations selected under paragraph (1) shall be an Air Force Logistics Center.
(c)
Alternative fuel vehicle defined
In this section, the term
alternative fuel vehicle
includes a vehicle that uses—
(1)
fuels derived from renewable biomass, as defined in section 211(o)(1)(I) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)(I)
);
(2)
natural gas (including compressed and liquefied natural gas); or
(3)
propane.
320.
Extension of real-time sound monitoring at Navy installations where tactical fighter aircraft operate
Section 325(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking
a 12-month period
and inserting
two 12-month periods, including one such period that begins in fiscal year 2021
.
321.
Study on impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of pollution or debris from the Tijuana River on personnel, activities, and installations of Department of Defense
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of State, and the United States Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water Commission, shall commission an independent scientific study of the impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of pollution or debris from the Tijuana River on the personnel, activities, and installations of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Elements
The study required by paragraph (1) shall address the short-term, long-term, primary, and secondary impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of pollution or debris from the Tijuana River and include recommendations to mitigate such impacts.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing the results of the study under subsection (a), including all findings and recommendations resulting from the study.
(c)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
322.
Increase in funding for study by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance contamination in drinking water
(a)
In general
(1)
Increase
The amount authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense Wide for SAG 4GTN for the study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1350) is hereby increased by $5,000,000.
(2)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operation and Maintenance, Army for SAG 421, Servicewide Transportation is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
(b)
Increase in transfer authority
Section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1350), as amended by section 315(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1713), is amended by striking
$10,000,000
and inserting
$15,000,000
.
C
Logistics and sustainment
331.
Repeal of statutory requirement for notification to Director of Defense Logistics Agency three years prior to implementing changes to any uniform or uniform component
Section 356 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
10 U.S.C. 771
note prec.) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (a);
(2)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b), respectively; and
(3)
in subsections (a) and (b), as so redesignated, by striking
Commander
each place it appears and inserting
Director
.
332.
Clarification of limitation on length of overseas forward deployment of currently deployed naval vessels
Section 323(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1720;
10 U.S.C. 8690
note) is amended by striking
In the case of any naval vessel
and inserting
In the case of any aircraft carrier, amphibious ship, cruiser, destroyer, frigate, or littoral combat ship
.
D
Reports
351.
Report on impact of permafrost thaw on infrastructure, facilities, and operations of the Department of Defense
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive report on the impact of permafrost thaw on the infrastructure, facilities, assets, and operations of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An identification of the infrastructure, facilities, and assets of the Department of Defense that could be impacted by permafrost thaw.
(2)
For each element of infrastructure and each facility and asset identified pursuant to paragraph (1)—
(A)
an assessment of the threat posed by permafrost thaw; and
(B)
an estimate of potential damage in the event of likely permafrost thaw.
(3)
A description of the threats and impacts posed by permafrost thaw to military and other national security operations.
(c)
Consultation
In preparing the report under subsection (a), the Secretary may consult with other Federal agencies, agencies of State and local governments, and academic institutions with expertise or experience in the effects of permafrost thaw on infrastructure, facilities, and operations.
(d)
Asset defined
In this section, the term
asset
means the following:
(1)
Any aircraft, weapon system, vehicle, equipment, or gear of the Department of Defense or the Armed Forces.
(2)
Any other item of the Department or the Armed Forces that the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
352.
Plans and reports on emergency response training for military installations
(a)
Plans
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that does not conduct live emergency response training on an annual basis or more frequently with the civilian law enforcement and emergency response agencies responsible for responding to an emergency at the installation develops a plan to conduct such training.
(2)
Elements
Each plan developed under paragraph (1) with respect to an installation—
(A)
shall include—
(i)
the cost of implementing training described in paragraph (1) at the installation;
(ii)
a description of any obstacles to the implementation of such training; and
(iii)
recommendations for mitigating any such obstacles; and
(B)
shall be designed to ensure that the civilian law enforcement and emergency response agencies described in paragraph (1) are familiar with—
(i)
the physical features of the installation, including gates, buildings, armories, headquarters, command and control centers, and medical facilities; and
(ii)
the emergency response personnel and procedures of the installation.
(3)
Submittal of plans
(A)
Submittal to Secretary
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the commander of each military installation required to develop a plan under paragraph (1) shall submit such plan to the Secretary of Defense.
(B)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a summary of the plans submitted to the Secretary under subparagraph (A).
(b)
Reports on training conducted
(1)
List of installations
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a list of all military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that conduct live emergency response training on an annual basis or more frequently with the civilian law enforcement and emergency response agencies responsible for responding to an emergency at the installation.
(2)
Annual reports
(A)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the commander of each military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary shall submit to the Secretary a report on each live emergency response training conducted during the year covered by the report with the civilian law enforcement and emergency response agencies responsible for responding to an emergency at the installation.
(B)
Elements
Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to each training exercise, the following:
(i)
The date and duration of the exercise.
(ii)
A detailed description of the exercise.
(iii)
An identification of all military and civilian personnel who participated in the exercise.
(iv)
Any recommendations resulting from the exercise.
(v)
The actions taken, if any, to implement such recommendations.
(C)
Inclusion in annual budget submission
(i)
In general
The Secretary shall include in the budget submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a summary of any report submitted to the Secretary under subparagraph (A) during the one-year period preceding the submittal of the budget.
(ii)
Classified form
The summary submitted under clause (i) may be submitted in classified form.
(D)
Sunset
The requirement to submit annual reports under subparagraph (A) shall terminate upon the submittal of the budget described in subparagraph (C)(i) for fiscal year 2024.
353.
Report on implementation by Department of Defense of requirements relating to renewable fuel pumps
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation by the Department of Defense of the requirements under section 246(a) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17053(a)
).
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An estimate of the cost to the Department of fully implementing the requirements under section 246(a) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007; and
(2)
An assessment of any problems or issues the Department is having in complying with the requirements under such section.
(c)
Exception
The report required by subsection (a) shall not apply to a fueling center of the Department with a fuel turnover rate of less than 100,000 gallons of fuel per year.
354.
Report on effects of extreme weather on Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on vulnerabilities to military installations and combatant commander requirements resulting from extreme weather that builds upon the report submitted under section 335(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1358).
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An explanation of the underlying methodology that the Department uses to assess the effects of extreme weather in the report, including through the use of a climate vulnerability and risk assessment tool as directed under section 326 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(2)
An assessment of how extreme weather affects low-lying military installations, military installations of the Navy and the Marine Corps, and military installations outside the United States.
(3)
An assessment of how extreme weather affects access of members of the Armed Forces to training ranges.
(4)
With respect to a military installation in a country outside the United States, an assessment of the collaboration between the Department of Defense and the military or civilian agencies of the government of that country or nongovernmental organizations operating in that country to adapt to risks from extreme weather.
(5)
An assessment of how extreme weather affects housing safety and food security on military installations.
(6)
An assessment of the strategic benefits derived from isolating infrastructure of the Department of Defense in the United States from the national electric grid and the use of energy-efficient, distributed, and smart power grids by the Armed Forces in the United States and overseas to ensure affordable access to electricity.
(7)
A list of ten military installation resilience projects conducted within each military department.
(8)
An overview of mitigations, in addition to current efforts undertaken by the Department, that may be necessary to ensure the continued operational viability and to increase the resilience of military installations, and the estimated costs of those mitigations.
(c)
Consultation
In developing the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Commander of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, a federally funded research and development center, and the heads of such other relevant Federal agencies as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
(d)
Form of report
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex if necessary.
(e)
Publication
Upon submittal of the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall publish the unclassified portion of the report on an Internet website of the Department of Defense that is available to the public.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Extreme weather
The term
extreme weather
means recurrent flooding, drought, desertification, wildfires, and thawing permafrost.
(2)
United States
The term
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or possession of the United States.
E
Other matters
371.
Prohibition on divestiture of manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft operated by United States Special Operations Command
No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to divest any manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft operated by the United States Special Operations Command, and the Department of Defense may not divest any manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft operated by the United States Special Operations Command in fiscal year 2021.
372.
Information on overseas construction projects in support of contingency operations using funds for operation and maintenance
(a)
Annual budget justification display
Section 2805(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Secretary concerned
and inserting
(1) The Secretary concerned
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(2)
The Secretary of each military department, the Director of each Defense Agency, and the head of any other relevant component of the Department of Defense shall track and report to the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) relevant data regarding all overseas construction projects funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for operation and maintenance in support of contingency operations.
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense shall prepare, for inclusion in the annual budget submission by the President to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, a consolidated budget justification display, in classified and unclassified form, that identifies all overseas construction projects funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for operation and maintenance in support of contingency operations.
(B)
The display prepared under subparagraph (A) shall include a list of all construction projects described in such subparagraph that were completed in the prior fiscal year, that are ongoing, or that are expected for the next five fiscal years, and shall identify for each project—
(i)
the component of the Department of Defense involved in the project;
(ii)
the location of the project;
(iii)
a brief description of the purpose of the project; and
(iv)
the actual or estimated cost of the project.
.
(b)
Report on construction projects in support of contingency operations
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on ways to improve the development, funding, and execution of construction projects in support of overseas contingency operations, including those funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for operation and maintenance and those funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for military construction.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(A)
An examination and comparison of the time required to plan, approve, and execute construction projects funded with operation and maintenance amounts versus those funded with military construction amounts, in support of contingency operations, including construction projects in support of recent operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, and Eastern Europe.
(B)
A description of any challenges associated with the processes of the Department of Defense for planning, approving, and executing such projects.
(C)
A description of any ongoing or planned efforts to improve such processes to promote efficiency and expediency in the development and execution of such projects.
(D)
Any recommendations with respect to improving such processes, including those from the commanders of the combatant commands and the Secretaries of the military departments.
373.
Provision of protection to the National Museum of the Marine Corps, the National Museum of the United States Army, the National Museum of the United States Navy, and the National Museum of the United States Air Force
Section 2465(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
A contract for the performance of on-site armed security guard functions to be performed—
(A)
at the Marine Corps Heritage Center at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia, including the National Museum of the Marine Corps;
(B)
at the Heritage Center for the National Museum of the United States Army at Fort Belvoir, Virginia;
(C)
at the Heritage Center for the National Museum of the United States Navy at Washington, District of Columbia; or
(D)
at the Heritage Center for the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.
.
374.
Inapplicability of congressional notification and dollar limitation requirements for advance billings for certain background investigations
Section 2208(l) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
This subsection shall not apply to advance billing for background investigation and related services performed by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
.
375.
Repeal of sunset for minimum annual purchase amount for carriers participating in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet
Section 9515 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (k).
376.
Improvement of the Operational Energy Capability Improvement Fund of the Department of Defense
(a)
Management of the Operational Energy Capability Improvement Fund
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment shall exercise authority, direction, and control over the Operational Energy Capability Improvement Fund of the Department of Defense (in this section referred to as the
OECIF
).
(b)
Alignment and coordination with related programs
(1)
Realignment of OECIF
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall realign the OECIF under the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment, with such realignment to include personnel positions adequate for the mission of the OECIF.
(2)
Better coordination with related programs
The Assistant Secretary shall ensure that the placement under the authority of the Assistant Secretary of the OECIF along with the Strategic Environmental Research Program, the Environmental Security Technology Certification Program, and the Operational Energy Prototyping Program is utilized to advance common goals of the Department, promote organizational synergies, and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort.
(c)
Program for operational energy prototyping
(1)
In general
Commencing not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment, shall carry out a program for the demonstration of technologies related to operational energy prototyping, including demonstration of operational energy technology and validation prototyping.
(2)
Operation of program
The Secretary shall ensure that the program under paragraph (1) operates in conjunction with the OECIF to promote the transfer of innovative technologies that have successfully established proof of concept for use in production or in the field.
(3)
Program elements
In carrying out the program under paragraph (1) the Secretary shall—
(A)
identify and demonstrate the most promising, innovative, and cost-effective technologies and methods that address high-priority operational energy requirements of the Department of Defense;
(B)
in conducting demonstrations under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—
(i)
collect cost and performance data to overcome barriers against employing an innovative technology because of concerns regarding technical or programmatic risk; and
(ii)
ensure that components of the Department have time to establish new requirements where necessary and plan, program, and budget for technology transition to programs of record;
(C)
utilize project structures similar to those of the OECIF to ensure transparency and accountability throughout the efforts conducted under the program; and
(D)
give priority, in conjunction with the OECIF, to the development and fielding of clean technologies that reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
(4)
Tool for accountability and transition
(A)
In general
In carrying out the program under paragraph (1) the Secretary shall develop and utilize a tool to track relevant investments in operational energy from applied research to transition to use to ensure user organizations have the full picture of technology maturation and development.
(B)
Transition
The tool developed and utilized under subparagraph (A) shall be designed to overcome transition challenges with rigorous and well-documented demonstrations that provide the information needed by all stakeholders for acceptance of the technology.
(5)
Locations
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall carry out the testing and evaluation phase of the program under paragraph (1) at installations of the Department of Defense or in conjunction with exercises conducted by the Joint Staff, a combatant command, or a military department.
(B)
Formal demonstrations
The Secretary shall carry out any formal demonstrations under the program under paragraph (1) at installations of the Department or in operational settings to document and validate improved warfighting performance and cost savings.
377.
Commission on the naming of items of the Department of Defense that commemorate the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America
(a)
Removal
Not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the plan submitted by the commission described in paragraph (b) and remove all names, symbols, displays, monuments, and paraphernalia that honor or commemorate the Confederate States of America (commonly referred to as the
Confederacy
) or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America from all assets of the Department of Defense.
(b)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a commission relating to assigning, modifying, or removing of names, symbols, displays, monuments, and paraphernalia to assets of the Department of Defense that commemorate the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America.
(c)
Duties
The Commission shall—
(1)
assess the cost of renaming or removing names, symbols, displays, monuments, or paraphernalia that commemorate the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
(2)
develop procedures and criteria to assess whether an existing name, symbol, monument, display, or paraphernalia commemorates the Confederate States of America or person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
(3)
recommend procedures for renaming assets of the Department of Defense to prevent commemoration of the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
(4)
develop a plan to remove names, symbols, displays, monuments, or paraphernalia that commemorate the Confederate States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America from assets of the Department of Defense, within the timeline established by this Act; and
(5)
include in the plan procedures and criteria for collecting and incorporating local sensitivities associated with naming or renaming of assets of the Department of Defense.
(d)
Membership
The Commission shall be composed of eight members, of whom—
(1)
four shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense;
(2)
one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(3)
one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(4)
one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
(5)
one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(e)
Appointment
Members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Initial meeting
The Commission shall hold its initial meeting on the date that is 60 days after the enactment of this Act.
(g)
Briefings and reports
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Commission shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives detailing the progress of the requirements under subsection (c). Not later than October 1, 2022, and not later than 90 days before the implementation of the plan in subsection (c)(4), the Commission shall present a briefing and written report detailing the results of the requirements under subsection (c), including:
(1)
A list of assets to be removed or renamed.
(2)
Costs associated with the removal or renaming of assets in subsection (g)(1).
(3)
Criteria and requirements used to nominate and rename assets in subsection (g)(1).
(4)
Methods of collecting and incorporating local sensitivities associated with the removal or renaming of assets in subsection (g)(1).
(h)
Funding
(1)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 to carry out this section.
(2)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated by the Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operations and Maintenance, Army, sub activity group 434 - other personnel support is hereby reduced by $2,000,000.
(i)
Assets defined
In this section, the term
assets
includes any base, installation, street, building, facility, aircraft, ship, plane, weapon, equipment, or any other property owned or controlled by the Department of Defense.
(j)
Exemption for grave markers
Shall not cover monuments but shall exempt grave markers. Congress expects the commission to further define what constitutes a grave marker.
378.
Modifications to review of proposed actions by Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Clearinghouse
Section 183a(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
If the Clearinghouse
and inserting
(A) If the Clearinghouse
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(B)
After the Clearinghouse issues a notice under subparagraph (A) with respect to an energy project, the parties should seek to identify feasible and affordable actions that can be taken by the Department, the developer of such energy project, or others to mitigate any adverse impact on military operations and readiness.
(C)
If the Secretary determines within a reasonable period of time after the issuance of a notice under subparagraph (A) with respect to an energy project that the concerns identified in the preliminary review conducted under paragraph (1) with respect to such project have been mitigated to the extent that such project does not pose an unacceptable level of risk to military operations and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall timely issue a mission compatibility letter to the applicant of such project, the governor of the State in which such project is located, and the Secretary of the finding of the Clearinghouse.
.
379.
Adjustment in availability of appropriations for unusual cost overruns and for changes in scope of work
Section 8683 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Treatment of amounts appropriated after end of period of obligation
In the application of section 1553(c) of title 31 to funds appropriated in the Operation and Maintenance, Navy account that are available for ship overhaul, the Secretary of the Navy—
(1)
may treat the limitation specified in paragraph (1) of such section to be
$10,000,000
rather than
$4,000,000
; and
(2)
may treat the limitation specified in paragraph (2) of such section to be
$30,000,000
rather than
$25,000,000
.
.
380.
Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement security and emergency response recommendations relating to active shooter or terrorist attacks on installations of Department of Defense
(a)
Requirement
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the applicable security and emergency response recommendations relating to active shooter or terrorist attacks on installations of the Department of Defense made in the following reports:
(1)
The report by the Government Accountability Office dated July 2015 entitled,
Insider Threats: DOD Should Improve Information Sharing and Oversight to Protect U.S. Installations
(GAO–15–543).
(2)
The report prepared by the Department of the Navy relating to the Washington Navy Yard shooting in 2013.
(3)
The report by the Department of the Army dated August 2010 entitled
Fort Hood, Army Internal Review Team: Final Report
.
(4)
The independent review by the Department of Defense dated January 2010 entitled
Protecting the Force: Lessons from Fort Hood
.
(5)
The report by the Department of the Air Force dated October 2010 entitled
Air Force Follow-On Review: Protecting the Force: Lessons from Fort Hood
.
(b)
Notification of inapplicable recommendations
(1)
In general
If the Secretary determines that a recommendation described in subsection (a) is outdated, is no longer applicable, or has been superseded by more recent separate guidance or recommendations set forth by the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Defense, or another entity in related contracted review, the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Identification and justification
The notification under paragraph (1) shall include an identification, set forth by report specified in subsection (a), of each recommendation that the Secretary determines should not be implemented, with a justification for each such determination.
381.
Clarification of food ingredient requirements for food or beverages provided by the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Before making any final rule, statement, or determination regarding the limitation or prohibition of any food or beverage ingredient in military food service, military medical foods, commissary food, or commissary food service, the Secretary of Defense shall publish in the Federal Register a notice of a preliminary rule, statement, or determination (in this section referred to as a
proposed action
) and provide opportunity for public comment.
(b)
Matters To be included
The Secretary shall include in any notice published under subsection (a) the following:
(1)
The date of the notice.
(2)
Contact information for the appropriate office at the Department of Defense.
(3)
A summary of the notice.
(4)
A date for comments to be submitted and specific methods for submitting comments.
(5)
A description of the substance of the proposed action.
(6)
Findings and a statement of reasons supporting the proposed action.
IV
Military Personnel Authorizations
A
Active Forces
401.
End strengths for active forces
The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel as of September 30, 2021, as follows:
(1)
The Army, 485,000.
(2)
The Navy, 346,730.
(3)
The Marine Corps, 180,000.
(4)
The Air Force, 333,475.
402.
End strength level matters
(a)
Strength levels to support two major regional contingencies
(1)
In general
Section 691 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 39 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 691.
(b)
Certain active-duty and Selected Reserve strengths
Section 115 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
increase
and inserting
vary
; and
(2)
in subsection (g)(1)(A), by striking
increase
and inserting
vary
.
B
Reserve Forces
411.
End strengths for Selected Reserve
(a)
In general
The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 30, 2021, as follows:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 336,500.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 189,800.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 58,800.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 108,100.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 70,300.
(7)
The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
(b)
End strength
reductions
The end strengths prescribed by subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall be proportionately reduced by—
(1)
the total authorized strength of units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal year; and
(2)
the total number of individual members not in units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component who are on active duty (other than for training or for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at the end of the fiscal year.
(c)
End strength
increases
Whenever units or individual members of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of such units and by the total number of such individual members.
412.
End
strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the reserves
Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 2021, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the reserve components:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,595.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 16,511.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 10,215.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 25,333.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 5,256.
413.
End strengths for military technicians (dual status)
(a)
In general
The authorized number of military technicians (dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2021 for the reserve components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
(1)
For the Army National Guard of the United States, 22,294.
(2)
For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
(3)
For the Air National Guard of the United States, 10,994.
(4)
For the Air Force Reserve, 7,947.
(b)
Limitation
Under no circumstances may a military technician (dual status) employed under the authority of this section be coerced by a State into accepting an offer of realignment or conversion to any other military status, including as a member of the Active, Guard, and Reserve program of a reserve component. If a military technician (dual status) declines to participate in such realignment or conversion, no further action will be taken against the individual or the individual's position.
414.
Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational support
During fiscal year 2021, the maximum number of members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, United States Code, is the following:
(1)
The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
(2)
The Army Reserve, 13,000.
(3)
The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
(4)
The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
(5)
The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
(6)
The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
415.
Separate authorization by Congress of minimum end strengths for non-temporary military technicians (dual status) and maximum end strengths for temporary military technicians (dual status)
(a)
In general
Section 115(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
the end strength for military technicians (dual status)
and inserting
both the minimum end strength for non-temporary military technicians (dual status) and the maximum end strength for temporary military technicians (dual status)
; and
(2)
in the third sentence, by striking
the end strength requested for military technicians (dual status)
and inserting
the minimum end strength for non-temporary military technicians (dual status), and the maximum end strength for temporary military technicians (dual status), requested
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the day after the date of the enactment of this Act. The amendment made by subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to budgets submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, after such effective date.
C
Authorization of Appropriations
421.
Military personnel
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4401.
(b)
Construction of
authorization
The authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal year 2021.
V
Military Personnel Policy
A
Officer Personnel Policy
501.
Repeal of codified specification of authorized strengths of certain commissioned officers on
active duty
Effective as of October 1, 2021, the text of section 523 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
The total number of commissioned officers serving on active duty in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in each of the grades of major, lieutenant colonel, or colonel, or in the Navy in each of the grades of lieutenant commander, commander, or captain, at the end of any fiscal year shall be as specifically authorized by Act of Congress for such fiscal year.
.
502.
Temporary expansion of availability of enhanced constructive service credit in a particular career field upon original appointment as a commissioned officer
(a)
Regular officers
Subparagraph (D) of section 533(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(D)
Additional credit as follows:
(i)
For special training or experience in a particular officer field as designated by the Secretary concerned, if such training or experience is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
(ii)
During fiscal years 2021 through 2025, for advanced education in an officer field so designated, if such education is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
.
(b)
Reserve officers
Section 12207(b)(1) of such title is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
or a designation in
and all that follows through
education or training,
and inserting
and who has special training or experience, or advanced education (if applicable),
; and
(2)
by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
(D)
Additional credit as follows:
(i)
For special training or experience in a particular officer field as designated by the Secretary concerned, if such training or experience is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
(ii)
During fiscal years 2021 through 2025, for advanced education in an officer field so designated, if such education is directly related to the operational needs of the armed force concerned.
.
(c)
Annual report
(1)
In general
Not later than February 1, 2022, and every four years thereafter, each Secretary of a military department shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the use of the authorities in subparagraph (D) of section 553(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), and subparagraph (D) of section 12207(b)(1) of such title (as amended by subsection (b)) (each referred to in this subsection as a
constructive credit authority
) during the preceding fiscal year for the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
(2)
Elements
Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year and Armed Forces covered by such report, the following:
(A)
The manner in which constructive service credit was calculated under each constructive credit authority.
(B)
The number of officers credited constructive service credit under each constructive credit authority.
(C)
A description and assessment of the utility of the constructive credit authorities in meeting the operational needs of the Armed Force concerned.
(D)
Such other matters in connection with the constructive credit authorities as the Secretary of the military department concerned considers appropriate.
503.
Requirement for promotion selection board recommendation of higher placement on promotion list of officers of particular merit
(a)
In general
Section 616(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
may
and inserting
shall
; and
(B)
by inserting
, pursuant to guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Secretary,
after
officers of particular merit
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3), by inserting
, pursuant to guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Secretary concerned,
after
shall recommend
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to officers recommended for promotion by promotion selection boards convened on or after that date.
504.
Special selection review boards for review of promotion of officers subject to adverse information identified after recommendation for promotion and related matters
(a)
Regular officers
(1)
In general
Subchapter III of
chapter 36
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 628
the following new section:
628a.
Special selection review boards
(a)
In general
(1)
If the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that a person recommended by a promotion board for promotion to a grade at or below the grade of major general, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force is the subject of credible information of an adverse nature, including any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title, that was not furnished to the promotion board during its consideration of the person for promotion as otherwise required by such section, the Secretary shall convene a special selection review board under this section to review the person and recommend whether the recommendation for promotion of the person should be sustained.
(2)
If a person and the recommendation for promotion of the person is subject to review under this section by a special selection review board convened under this section, the name of the person—
(A)
shall not be disseminated or publicly released on the list of officers recommended for promotion by the promotion board recommending the promotion of the person; and
(B)
shall not be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense, the President, or the Senate, as applicable, or included on a promotion list under section 624(a) of this title.
(b)
Convening
(1)
Any special selection review board convened under this section shall be convened in accordance with the provisions of section 628(f) of this title.
(2)
Any special selection review board convened under this section may review such number of persons, and recommendations for promotion of such persons, as the Secretary of the military department concerned shall specify in convening such special selection review board.
(c)
Information considered
(1)
In reviewing a person and recommending whether the recommendation for promotion of the person should be sustained under this section, a special selection review board convened under this section shall be furnished and consider the following:
(A)
The record and information concerning the person furnished in accordance with section 615(a)(2) of this title to the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
(B)
Any credible information of an adverse nature on the person, including any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation or inquiry described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title.
(2)
The furnishing of information to a special selection review board under paragraph (1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(C) of section 615(a) of this title applicable to the furnishing of information described in paragraph (3)(A) of such section to selection boards in accordance with that section.
(3)
(A)
Before information on a person described in paragraph (1)(B) is furnished to a special selection review board for purposes of this section, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall ensure that—
(i)
such information is made available to the person; and
(ii)
subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the person is afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on such information to the special selection review board before its review of the person and the recommendation for promotion of the person under this section.
(B)
If information on a person described in paragraph (1)(B) is not made available to the person as otherwise required by subparagraph (A)(i) due to the classification status of such information, the person shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be furnished a summary of such information appropriate to the person's authorization for access to classified information.
(C)
(i)
An opportunity to submit comments on information is not required for a person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if—
(I)
such information was made available to the person in connection with the furnishing of such information under section 615(a) of this title to the promotion board that recommended the promotion of the person subject to review under this section; and
(II)
the person submitted comments on such information to that promotion board.
(ii)
The comments on information of a person described in clause (i)(II) shall be furnished to the special selection review board.
(D)
A person may waive either or both of the following:
(i)
The right to submit comments to a special selection review board under subparagraph (A)(ii).
(ii)
The furnishing of comments to a special selection review board under subparagraph (C)(ii).
(d)
Consideration
(1)
In considering the record and information on a person under this section, the special selection review board shall compare such record and information with an appropriate sampling of the records of those officers of the same competitive category who were recommended for promotion by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion, and an appropriate sampling of the records of those officers who were considered by and not recommended for promotion by that promotion board.
(2)
Records and information shall be presented to a special selection review board for purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that does not indicate or disclose the person or persons for whom the special selection review board was convened.
(3)
In considering whether the recommendation for promotion of a person should be sustained under this section, a special selection review board shall, to the greatest extent practicable, apply standards used by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
(4)
The recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained under this section only if the special selection review board determines that the person—
(A)
ranks on an order of merit created by the special selection review board as better qualified for promotion than the sample officer highest on the order of merit list who was considered by and not recommended for promotion by the promotion board concerned; and
(B)
is comparable in qualification for promotion to those sample officers who were recommended for promotion by that promotion board.
(5)
A recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained under this section only by a vote of a majority of the members of the special selection review board.
(6)
If a special selection review board does not sustain a recommendation for promotion of a person under this section, the person shall be considered to have failed of selection for promotion.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Each special selection review board convened under this section shall submit to the Secretary of the military department concerned a written report, signed by each member of the board, containing the name of each person whose recommendation for promotion it recommends for sustainment and certifying that the board has carefully considered the record and information of each person whose name was referred to it.
(2)
The provisions of sections 617(b) and 618 of this title apply to the report and proceedings of a special selection review board convened under this section in the same manner as they apply to the report and proceedings of a promotion board convened under section 611(a) of this title.
(f)
Appointment of persons
(1)
If the report of a special selection review board convened under this section recommends the sustainment of the recommendation for promotion to the next higher grade of a person whose name was referred to it for review under this section, and the President approves the report, the person shall, as soon as practicable, be appointed to that grade in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) of section 624 of this title.
(2)
A person who is appointed to the next higher grade as described in paragraph (1) shall, upon that appointment, have the same date of rank, the same effective date for the pay and allowances of that grade, and the same position on the active-duty list as the person would have had pursuant to the original recommendation for promotion of the promotion board concerned.
(g)
Regulations
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall apply uniformly across the military departments.
(2)
Any regulation prescribed by the Secretary of a military department to supplement the regulations prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1) may not take effect without the approval of the Secretary of Defense, in writing.
(h)
Promotion board defined
In this section, the term
promotion board
means a selection board convened by the Secretary of a military department under section 611(a) of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of chapter 36 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 628 the following new item:
628a. Special selection review boards.
.
(3)
Delay in promotion
Section 624(d) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
in subparagraph (D), by striking
or
at the end;
(ii)
in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(iii)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph (F):
(F)
the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that credible information of an adverse nature, including a substantiated adverse finding or conclusion described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title, with respect to the officer will result in the convening of a special selection review board under section 628a of this title to review the officer and recommend whether the recommendation for promotion of the officer should be sustained.
;
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively;
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
(3)
In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant to paragraph (1)(F) and whose recommendation for promotion is sustained, authorities for the promotion of the officer are specified in section 628a(f) of this title.
; and
(D)
in paragraph (4), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
(i)
by striking
The appointment
and inserting
(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the appointment
; and
(ii)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant to paragraph (1)(F), requirements applicable to notice and opportunity for response to such delay are specified in section 628a(c)(3) of this title.
.
(b)
Reserve officers
(1)
In general
Chapter 1407
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 14502
the following new section:
14502a.
Special selection review boards
(a)
In general
(1)
If the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that a person recommended by a promotion board for promotion to a grade at or below the grade of major general or rear admiral in the Navy is the subject of credible information of an adverse nature, including any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title, that was not furnished to the promotion board during its consideration of the person for promotion as otherwise required by such section, the Secretary shall convene a special selection review board under this section to review the person and recommend whether the recommendation for promotion of the person should be sustained.
(2)
If a person and the recommendation for promotion of the person is subject to review under this section by a special selection review board convened under this section, the name of the person—
(A)
shall not be disseminated or publicly released on the list of officers recommended for promotion by the promotion board recommending the promotion of the person; and
(B)
shall not be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense, the President, or the Senate, as applicable, or included on a promotion list under section 14308(a) of this title.
(b)
Convening
(1)
Any special selection review board convened under this section shall be convened in accordance with the provisions of section 14502(b)(2) of this title.
(2)
Any special selection review board convened under this section may review such number of persons, and recommendations for promotion of such persons, as the Secretary of the military department concerned shall specify in convening such special selection review board.
(c)
Information considered
(1)
In reviewing a person and recommending whether the recommendation for promotion of the person should be sustained under this section, a special selection review board convened under this section shall be furnished and consider the following:
(A)
The record and information concerning the person furnished in accordance with section 14107(a)(2) of this title to the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
(B)
Any credible information of an adverse nature on the person, including any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation or inquiry described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title.
(2)
The furnishing of information to a special selection review board under paragraph (1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of section 14107(a) of this title applicable to the furnishing of information described in paragraph (3)(A) of such section to promotion boards in accordance with that section.
(3)
(A)
Before information on person described in paragraph (1)(B) is furnished to a special selection review board for purposes of this section, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall ensure that—
(i)
such information is made available to the person; and
(ii)
subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the person is afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on such information to the special selection review board before its review of the person and the recommendation for promotion of the person under this section.
(B)
If information on an officer described in paragraph (1)(B) is not made available to the person as otherwise required by subparagraph (A)(i) due to the classification status of such information, the person shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be furnished a summary of such information appropriate to the person's authorization for access to classified information.
(C)
(i)
An opportunity to submit comments on information is not required for a person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if—
(I)
such information was made available to the person in connection with the furnishing of such information under section 14107(a) of this title to the promotion board that recommended the promotion of the person subject to review under this section; and
(II)
the person submitted comments on such information to that promotion board.
(ii)
The comments on information of a person described in clause (i)(II) shall be furnished to the special selection review board.
(D)
A person may waive either or both of the following:
(i)
The right to submit comments to a special selection review board under subparagraph (A)(ii).
(ii)
The furnishing of comments to a special selection review board under subparagraph (C)(ii).
(d)
Consideration
(1)
In considering the record and information on a person under this section, the special selection review board shall compare such record and information with an appropriate sampling of the records of those officers of the same competitive category who were recommended for promotion by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion, and an appropriate sampling of the records of those officers who were considered by and not recommended for promotion by that promotion board.
(2)
Records and information shall be presented to a special selection review board for purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that does not indicate or disclose the person or persons for whom the special selection review board was convened.
(3)
In considering whether the recommendation for promotion of a person should be sustained under this section, a special selection review board shall, to the greatest extent practicable, apply standards used by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
(4)
The recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained under this section only if the special selection review board determines that the person—
(A)
ranks on an order of merit created by the special selection review board as better qualified for promotion than the sample officer highest on the order of merit list who was considered by and not recommended for promotion by the promotion board concerned; and
(B)
is comparable in qualification for promotion to those sample officers who were recommended for promotion by that promotion board.
(5)
A recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained under this section only by a vote of a majority of the members of the special selection review board.
(6)
If a special selection review board does not sustain a recommendation for promotion of a person under this section, the person shall be considered to have failed of selection for promotion.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Each special selection review board convened under this section shall submit to the Secretary of the military department concerned a written report, signed by each member of the board, containing the name of each person whose recommendation for promotion it recommends for sustainment and certifying that the board has carefully considered the record and information of each person whose name was referred to it.
(2)
The provisions of sections 14109(c), 14110, and 14111 of this title apply to the report and proceedings of a special selection review board convened under this section in the same manner as they apply to the report and proceedings of a promotion board convened under section 14101(a) of this title.
(f)
Appointment of persons
(1)
If the report of a special selection review board convened under this section recommends the sustainment of the recommendation for promotion to the next higher grade of a person whose name was referred to it for review under this section, and the President approves the report, the person shall, as soon as practicable, be appointed to that grade in accordance with section 14308 of this title.
(2)
A person who is appointed to the next higher grade as described in paragraph (1) shall, upon that appointment, have the same date of rank, the same effective date for the pay and allowances of that grade, and the same position on the reserve active-status list as the person would have had pursuant to the original recommendation for promotion of the promotion board concerned.
(g)
Regulations
(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall apply uniformly across the military departments.
(2)
Any regulation prescribed by the Secretary of a military department to supplement the regulations prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1) may not take effect without the approval of the Secretary of Defense, in writing.
(h)
Promotion board defined
In this section, the term
promotion board
means a selection board convened by the Secretary of a military department under section 14101(a) of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1407 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 14502 the following new item:
14502a. Special selection review boards.
.
(3)
Delay in promotion
Section 14311 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(F)
The Secretary of the military department concerned determines that credible information of adverse nature, including a substantiated adverse finding or conclusion described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title, with respect to the officer will result in the convening of a special selection review board under section 14502a of this title to review the officer and recommend whether the recommendation for promotion of the officer should be sustained.
; and
(ii)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant to paragraph (1)(F) and whose recommendation for promotion is sustained, authorities for the promotion of the officer are specified in section 14502a(f) of this title.
; and
(B)
in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), in the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(F), requirements applicable to notice and opportunity for response to such delay are specified in section 14502a(c)(3) of this title.
.
(c)
Requirements for furnishing adverse information on regular officers to promotion selection boards
(1)
Extension of requirements to Space Force regular officers
Subparagraph (B)(i) of section 615(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
or, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant
and inserting
, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant, or in the case of the Space Force, the equivalent grade
.
(2)
Satisfaction of requirements through special selection review boards
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
With respect to the consideration of an officer for promotion to a grade at or below major general, in the case of the Navy, rear admiral, or, in the case of the Space Force, the equivalent grade, the requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (C) may be met through the convening and actions of a special selection review board with respect to the officer under section 628a of this title.
.
(3)
Delayed applicability of requirements to boards for promotion of officers to non-general and flag officer grades
Subsection (c) of section 502 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Effective date and applicability
(1)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on December 20, 2019, and shall, except as provided in paragraph (2), apply with respect to the proceedings of promotion selection boards convened under section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, after that date.
(2)
Delayed applicability for boards for promotion to non-general and flag officer grades
The amendments made this section shall apply with respect to the proceedings of promotion selection boards convened under section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, for consideration of officers for promotion to a grade below the grade of brigadier general or, in the case of the Navy, rear admiral (lower half), only if such boards are so convened after January 1, 2021.
.
(d)
Requirements for furnishing adverse information on reserve officers to promotion selection boards
Section 14107(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(A)
after
(3)
;
(2)
in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by striking
colonel, or, in the case of the Navy, captain
and inserting
lieutenant colonel, or, in the case of the Navy, commander
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs
(B)
The standards and procedures referred to in subparagraph (A) shall require the furnishing to the selection board, and to each individual member of the board, the information described in that subparagraph with regard to an officer in a grade specified in that subparagraph at each stage or phase of the selection board, concurrent with the screening, rating, assessment, evaluation, discussion, or other consideration by the board or member of the official military personnel file of the officer, or of the officer.
(C)
With respect to the consideration of an officer for promotion to a grade at or below major general or, in the Navy, rear admiral, the requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) may be met through the convening and actions of a special selection board with respect to the officer under section 14502a of this title.
.
505.
Number of opportunities for consideration for promotion under alternative promotion authority
Section 649c of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Inapplicability of requirement relating to opportunities for consideration for promotion
Section 645(1)(A)(i)(I) of this title shall not apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection (a) to the extent that such section is inconsistent with a number of opportunities for promotion specified pursuant to section 649d of this title.
.
506.
Mandatory retirement for age
(a)
General rule
Subsection (a) of section 1251 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
Space Force,
after
or Marine Corps,
; and
(2)
by inserting
or separated, as specified in subsection (e),
after
shall be retired
.
(b)
Deferred retirement or separation of health professions officers
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by inserting
or separation
after
retirement
; and
(2)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
or separation
after
retirement
.
(c)
Deferred retirement or separation of other officers
Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
of chaplains
and inserting
or separation of other officers
;
(2)
by inserting
or separation
after
retirement
; and
(3)
by striking
an officer who is appointed or designated as a chaplain
and inserting
any officer other than a health professions officer described in subsection (b)(2)
.
(d)
Retirement or separation based on years of creditable service
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Retirement or separation based on years of creditable service
The following rules shall apply to a regular commissioned officer who is to be retired or separated under subsection (a):
(1)
If the officer has at least 6 but fewer than 20 years of creditable service, the officer shall be separated, with separation pay computed under section 1174(d)(1) of this title.
(2)
If the officer has fewer than 6 years of creditable service, the officer shall be separated under subsection (a).
.
507.
Clarifying and improving restatement of rules on the retired grade of commissioned officers
(a)
Restatement
(1)
In general
Chapter 69
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking section 1370 and inserting the following new sections:
1370.
Regular commissioned officers
(a)
Retirement in highest grade in which served satisfactorily
(1)
In general
Unless entitled to a different retired grade under some other provision of law, a commissioned officer (other than a commissioned warrant officer) of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force who retires under any provision of law other than chapter 61 or 1223 of this title shall be retired in the highest permanent grade in which such officer is determined to have served on active duty satisfactorily.
(2)
Determination of satisfactory service
The determination of satisfactory service of an officer in a grade under paragraph (1) shall be made as follows:
(A)
By the Secretary of the military department concerned, if the officer is serving in a grade at or below the grade of major general, rear admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force.
(B)
By the Secretary of Defense, if the officer is serving or has served in a grade above the grade of major general, rear admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force.
(3)
Effect of misconduct in lower grade in determination
If the Secretary of a military department or the Secretary of Defense, as applicable, determines that an officer committed misconduct in a lower grade than the retirement grade otherwise provided for the officer by this section—
(A)
such Secretary may deem the officer to have not served satisfactorily in any grade equal to or higher than such lower grade for purposes of determining the retirement grade of the officer under this section; and
(B)
the grade next lower to such lower grade shall be the retired grade of the officer under this section.
(4)
Nature of retirement of certain reserve officers and officers in temporary grades
A reserve officer, or an officer appointed to a position under section 601 of this title, who is notified that the officer will be released from active duty without the officer's consent and thereafter requests retirement under section 7311, 8323, or 9311 of this title and is retired pursuant to that request is considered for purposes of this section to have been retired involuntarily.
(5)
Nature of retirement of certain removed officers
An officer retired pursuant to section 1186(b)(1) of this title is considered for purposes of this section to have been retired voluntarily.
(b)
Retirement of officers retiring voluntarily
(1)
Service-in-grade requirement
In order to be eligible for voluntary retirement under any provision of this title in a grade above the grade of captain in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, lieutenant in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, a commissioned officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force must have served on active duty in that grade for a period of not less than three years, except that—
(A)
subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may reduce such period to a period of not less than two years for any officer; and
(B)
in the case of an officer to be retired in a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of the military department concerned to reduce such period to a period of not less than two years.
(2)
Limitation on delegation
The authority of the Secretary of Defense in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) may not be delegated. The authority of the Secretary of a military department in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), as delegated to such Secretary pursuant to such subparagraph, may not be further delegated.
(3)
Waiver of requirement
Subject to subsection (c), the President may waive the application of the service-in-grade requirement in paragraph (1) to officers covered by that paragraph in individual cases involving extreme hardship or exceptional or unusual circumstances. The authority of the President under this paragraph may not be delegated.
(4)
Limitation on reduction or waiver of requirement for officers under investigation or pending misconduct
In the case of an officer to be retired in a grade above the grade of colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, captain in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, the service-in-grade requirement in paragraph (1) may not be reduced pursuant to that paragraph, or waived pursuant to paragraph (3), while the officer is under investigation for alleged misconduct or while there is pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action against the officer.
(5)
Grade and fiscal year limitations on reduction or waiver of requirements
The aggregate number of members of an armed force in a grade for whom reductions are made under paragraph (1), and waivers are made under paragraph (3), in a fiscal year may not exceed—
(A)
in the case of officers to be retired in a grade at or below the grade of major in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, lieutenant commander in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, the number equal to two percent of the authorized active-duty strength for that fiscal year for officers of that armed force in that grade;
(B)
in the case of officers to be retired in the grade of lieutenant colonel or colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, commander or captain in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the number equal to four percent of the authorized active-duty strength for that fiscal year for officers of that armed force in the applicable grade; or
(C)
in the case of officers to be retired in the grade of brigadier general or major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral (lower half) or rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the number equal to 10 percent of the authorized active-duty strength for that fiscal year for officers of that armed force in the applicable grade.
(6)
Notice to Congress on reduction or waiver of requirements for general, flag, and equivalent officer grades
In the case of an officer to be retired in a grade that is a general or flag officer grade, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, who is eligible to retire in that grade only by reason of an exercise of the authority in paragraph (1) to reduce the service-in-grade requirement in that paragraph, or the authority in paragraph (3) to waive that requirement, the Secretary of Defense or the President, as applicable, shall, not later than 60 days prior to the date on which the officer will be retired in that grade, notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the exercise of the applicable authority with respect to that officer.
(7)
Retirement in next lowest grade for officers not meeting requirement
An officer described in paragraph (1) whose length of service in the highest grade held by the officer while on active duty does not meet the period of the service-in-grade requirement applicable to the officer under this subsection shall, subject to subsection (c), be retired in the next lower grade in which the officer served on active duty satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned or the Secretary of Defense, as applicable.
(c)
Officers in O–9 and O–10 grades
(1)
In general
An officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force who is serving or has served in a position of importance and responsibility designated by the President to carry the grade of lieutenant general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force under section 601 of this title may be retired in such grade under subsection (a) only after the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing to the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives that the officer served on active duty satisfactorily in such grade.
(2)
Prohibition on delegation
The authority of the Secretary of Defense to make a certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
(3)
Requirements in connection with certification
A certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
be submitted by the Secretary of Defense such that it is received by the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 60 days prior to the date on which the officer will be retired in the grade concerned;
(B)
include an up-to-date copy of the military biography of the officer; and
(C)
include the statement of the Secretary as to whether or not potentially adverse, adverse, or reportable information regarding the officer was considered by the Secretary in making the certification.
(4)
Construction with other notice
In the case of an officer under paragraph (1) to whom a reduction in the service-in-grade requirement under subsection (b)(1) or waiver under subsection (b)(3) applies, the requirement for notification under subsection (b)(6) is satisfied if the notification is included in the certification submitted by the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1).
(d)
Conditional retirement grade and retirement for officers pending investigation or adverse action
(1)
In general
When an officer serving in a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force is under investigation for alleged misconduct or pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action at the time of retirement, the Secretary of the military department concerned may—
(A)
conditionally determine the highest permanent grade of satisfactory service on active duty of the officer pending completion of the investigation or resolution of the personnel action, as applicable; and
(B)
retire the officer in that conditional grade, subject to subsection (e).
(2)
Officers in O–9 and O–10 grades
When an officer described by subsection (c)(1) is under investigation for alleged misconduct or pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action at the time of retirement, the Secretary of Defense may—
(A)
conditionally determine the highest permanent grade of satisfactory service on active duty of the officer, pending completion of the investigation or personnel action, as applicable; and
(B)
retire the officer in that conditional grade, subject to subsection (e).
(3)
Reduction or waiver of service-in-grade requirement prohibited for general, flag, and equivalent officer grades
In conditionally determining the retirement grade of an officer under paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A) of this subsection to be a grade above the grade of colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, captain in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, the service-in-grade requirement in subsection (b)(1) may not be reduced pursuant to subsection (b)(1) or waived pursuant to subsection (b)(3).
(4)
Prohibition on delegation
The authority of the Secretary of a military department under paragraph (1) may not be delegated. The authority of the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (2) may not be delegated.
(e)
Final retirement grade following resolution of pending investigation or adverse action
(1)
No change from conditional retirement grade
If the resolution of an investigation or personnel action with respect to an officer who has been retired in a conditional retirement grade pursuant to subsection (d) results in a determination that the conditional retirement grade in which the officer was retired will not be changed, the conditional retirement grade of the officer shall, subject to paragraph (3), be the final retired grade of the officer.
(2)
Change from conditional retirement grade
If the resolution of an investigation or personnel action with respect to an officer who has been retired in a conditional retirement grade pursuant to subsection (d) results in a determination that the conditional retirement grade in which the officer was retired should be changed, the changed retirement grade shall be the final retired grade of the officer under this section, except that if the final retirement grade provided for an officer pursuant to this paragraph is the grade of lieutenant general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the requirements in subsection (c) shall apply in connection with the retirement of the officer in such final retirement grade.
(3)
Recalculation of retired pay
(A)
In general
If the final retired grade of an officer is as a result of a change under paragraph (2), the retired pay of the officer under chapter 71 of this title shall be recalculated accordingly, with any modification of the retired pay of the officer to go into effect as of the date of the retirement of the officer.
(B)
Payment of higher amount for period of conditional retirement grade
If the recalculation of the retired pay of an officer results in an increase in retired pay, the officer shall be paid the amount by which such increased retired pay exceeded the amount of retired pay paid the officer for retirement in the officer's conditional grade during the period beginning on the date of the retirement of the officer in such conditional grade and ending on the effective date of the change of the officer's retired grade. For an officer whose retired grade is determined pursuant to subsection (c), the effective date of the change of the officer's retired grade for purposes of this subparagraph shall be the date that is 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives the certification required by subsection (c) in connection with the retired grade of the officer.
(C)
Recoupment of overage during period of conditional retirement grade
If the recalculation of the retired pay of an officer results in a decrease in retired pay, there shall be recouped from the officer the amount by which the amount of retired pay paid the officer for retirement in the officer's conditional grade exceeded such decreased retired pay during the period beginning on the date of the retirement of the officer in such conditional grade and ending on the effective date of the change of the officer's retired grade.
(f)
Finality of retired grade determinations
(1)
In general
Except for a conditional determination authorized by subsection (d), a determination of the retired grade of an officer pursuant to this section is administratively final on the day the officer is retired, and may not be reopened, except as provided in paragraph (2).
(2)
Reopening
A final determination of the retired grade of an officer may be reopened as follows:
(A)
If the retirement or retired grade of the officer was procured by fraud.
(B)
If substantial evidence comes to light after the retirement that could have led to determination of a different retired grade under this section if known by competent authority at the time of retirement.
(C)
If a mistake of law or calculation was made in the determination of the retired grade.
(D)
If the applicable Secretary determines, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, that good cause exists to reopen the determination of retired grade.
(3)
Applicable Secretary
For purposes of this subsection, the applicable Secretary for purposes of a determination or action specified in this subsection is—
(A)
the Secretary of the military department concerned, in the case of an officer retired in a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force; or
(B)
the Secretary of Defense, in the case of an officer retired in a grade of lieutenant general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force.
(4)
Notice and limitation
If a final determination of the retired grade of an officer is reopened in accordance with paragraph (2), the applicable Secretary—
(A)
shall notify the officer of the reopening; and
(B)
may not make an adverse determination on the retired grade of the officer until the officer has had a reasonable opportunity to respond regarding the basis for the reopening of the officer’s retired grade.
(5)
Additional notice on reopening for officers retired in O–9 and O–10 grades
If the determination of the retired grade of an officer whose retired grade was provided for pursuant to subsection (c) is reopened, the Secretary of Defense shall also notify the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
(6)
Manner of making of change
If the retired grade of an officer is proposed to be changed through the reopening of the final determination of an officer’s retired grade under this subsection, the change in grade shall be made—
(A)
in the case of an officer whose retired grade is to be changed to a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, in accordance with subsections (a) and (b)—
(i)
by the Secretary of Defense (who may delegate such authority only as authorized by clause (ii)); or
(ii)
if authorized by the Secretary of Defense, by the Secretary of the military department concerned (who may not further delegate such authority);
(B)
in the case of an officer whose retired grade is to be changed to the grade of lieutenant general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(7)
Recalculation of retired pay
If the final retired grade of an officer is changed through the reopening of the officer's retired grade under this subsection, the retired pay of the officer under chapter 71 of this title shall be recalculated. Any modification of the retired pay of the officer as a result of the change shall go into effect on the effective date of the change of the officer’s retired grade, and the officer shall not be entitled or subject to any changed amount of retired pay for any period before such effective date. An officer whose retired grade is changed as provided in paragraph (6)(B) shall not be entitled or subject to a change in retired pay for any period before the date on which the Senate provides advice and consent for the retirement of the officer in such grade.
(g)
Highest permanent grade defined
In this section, the term
highest permanent grade
means a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force.
1370a.
Officers entitled to retired pay for non-regular service
(a)
Retirement in highest grade held satisfactorily
Unless entitled to a different grade, or to credit for satisfactory service in a different grade under some other provision of law, a person who is entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title shall, upon application under section 12731 of this title, be credited with satisfactory service in the highest permanent grade in which that person served satisfactorily at any time in the armed forces, as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned in accordance with this section.
(b)
Service-in-grade requirement for officers in grades below O–5
In order to be credited with satisfactory service in an officer grade (other than a warrant officer grade) below the grade of lieutenant colonel or commander (in the case of the Navy), a person covered by subsection (a) must have served satisfactorily in that grade (as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned) as a reserve commissioned officer in an active status, or in a retired status on active duty, for not less than six months.
(c)
Service-in-grade requirement for offices in grades above O–4
(1)
In general
In order to be credited with satisfactory service in an officer grade above major or lieutenant commander (in the case of the Navy), a person covered by subsection (a) must have served satisfactorily in that grade (as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned) as a reserve commissioned officer in an active status, or in a retired status on active duty, for not less than three years.
(2)
Satisfaction of requirement by certain officers not completing three years
A person covered by paragraph (1) who has completed at least six months of satisfactory service in grade may be credited with satisfactory service in the grade in which serving at the time of transfer or discharge, notwithstanding failure of the person to complete three years of service in that grade, if the person is transferred from an active status or discharged as a reserve commissioned officer—
(A)
solely due to the requirements of a nondiscretionary provision of law requiring that transfer or discharge due to the person’s age or years of service; or
(B)
because the person no longer meets the qualifications for membership in the Ready Reserve solely because of a physical disability, as determined, at a minimum, by a medical evaluation board and at the time of such transfer or discharge the person (pursuant to section 12731b of this title or otherwise) meets the service requirements established by section 12731(a) of this title for eligibility for retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title, unless the disability is described in section 12731b of this title.
(3)
Reduction in service-in-grade requirements
(A)
Officers in grades below general and flag officer grades
In the case of a person to be retired in a grade below brigadier general or rear admiral (lower half) in the Navy, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of a military department to reduce, subject to subparagraph (B), the three-year period of service-in-grade required by paragraph (1) to a period not less than two years. The authority of the Secretary of a military department under this subparagraph may not be delegated.
(B)
Limitation
The number of reserve commissioned officers of an armed force in the same grade for whom a reduction is made under subparagraph (A) during any fiscal year in the period of service-in-grade otherwise required by paragraph (1) may not exceed the number equal to 2 percent of the strength authorized for that fiscal year for reserve commissioned officers of that armed force in an active status in that grade.
(C)
Officers in general and flag officers grades
The Secretary of Defense may reduce the three-year period of service-in-grade required by paragraph (1) to a period not less than two years for any person, including a person who, upon transfer to the Retired Reserve or discharge, is to be credited with satisfactory service in a general or flag officer grade under that paragraph. The authority of the Secretary of Defense under this subparagraph may not be delegated.
(D)
Notice to Congress on reduction in service-in-grade requirements for general and flag officer grades
In the case of a person to be credited under this section with satisfactory service in a grade that is a general or flag officer grade who is eligible to be credited with such service in that grade only by reason of an exercise of authority in subparagraph (C) to reduce the three-year service-in-grade requirement otherwise applicable under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall, not later than 60 days prior to the date on which the person will be credited with such satisfactory service in that grade, notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the exercise of authority in subparagraph (C) with respect to that person.
(4)
Officers serving in grades above O–6 involuntarily transferred from active status
A person covered by paragraph (1) who has completed at least six months of satisfactory service in a grade above colonel or (in the case of the Navy) captain and, while serving in an active status in such grade, is involuntarily transferred (other than for cause) from active status may be credited with satisfactory service in the grade in which serving at the time of such transfer, notwithstanding failure of the person to complete three years of service in that grade.
(5)
Adjutants and assistant adjutants general
If a person covered by paragraph (1) has completed at least six months of satisfactory service in grade, the person was serving in that grade while serving in a position of adjutant general required under section 314 of title 32 or while serving in a position of assistant adjutant general subordinate to such a position of adjutant general, and the person has failed to complete three years of service in that grade solely because the person’s appointment to such position has been terminated or vacated as described in section 324(b) of such title, the person may be credited with satisfactory service in that grade, notwithstanding the failure of the person to complete three years of service in that grade.
(6)
Officers recommended for promotion serving in certain grade before promotion
To the extent authorized by the Secretary of the military department concerned, a person who, after having been recommended for promotion in a report of a promotion board but before being promoted to the recommended grade, served in a position for which that grade is the minimum authorized grade may be credited for purposes of paragraph (1) as having served in that grade for the period for which the person served in that position while in the next lower grade. The period credited may not include any period before the date on which the Senate provides advice and consent for the appointment of that person in the recommended grade.
(7)
Officers qualified for Federal recognition serving in certain grade before appointment
To the extent authorized by the Secretary of the military department concerned, a person who, after having been found qualified for Federal recognition in a higher grade by a board under section 307 of title 32, serves in a position for which that grade is the minimum authorized grade and is appointed as a reserve officer in that grade may be credited for the purposes of paragraph (1) as having served in that grade. The period of the service for which credit is afforded under the preceding sentence may be only the period for which the person served in the position after the Senate provides advice and consent for the appointment.
(8)
Retirement in next lowest grade for officers not meeting service-in-grade requirements
A person whose length of service in the highest grade held does not meet the service-in-grade requirements specified in this subsection shall be credited with satisfactory service in the next lower grade in which that person served satisfactorily (as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned) for not less than six months.
(d)
Officers in O–9 and O–10 grades
(1)
In general
A person covered by this section in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who is serving or has served in a position of importance and responsibility designated by the President to carry the grade of lieutenant general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or vice admiral or admiral in the Navy under section 601 of this title may be retired in such grade under subsection (a) only after the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing to the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives that the officer served satisfactorily in such grade.
(2)
Prohibition on delegation
The authority of the Secretary of Defense to make a certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
(3)
Requirements in connection with certification
A certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
be submitted by the Secretary of Defense such that it is received by the President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 60 days prior to the date on which the officer will be retired in the grade concerned;
(B)
include an up-to-date copy of the military biography of the officer; and
(C)
include the statement of the Secretary as to whether or not potentially adverse, adverse, or reportable information regarding the officer was considered by the Secretary in making the certification.
(4)
Construction with other notice
In the case of an officer under paragraph (1) who is eligible to be credited with service in a grade only by reason of the exercise of the authority in subsection (c)(3)(C) to reduce the three-year service-in-grade requirement under subsection (c)(1), the requirement for notification under subsection (c)(3)(D) is satisfied if the notification is included in the certification submitted by the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1).
(e)
Conditional retirement grade and retirement for officers under investigation for misconduct or pending adverse personnel action
The retirement grade, and retirement, of a person covered by this section who is under investigation for alleged misconduct or pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action at the time of retirement is as provided for by section 1370(d) of this title. In the application of such section 1370(d) for purposes of this subsection, any reference
active duty
shall be deemed not to apply, and any reference to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed to be a reference to the analogous provision of this section.
(f)
Final retirement grade following resolution of pending investigation or adverse action
The final retirement grade under this section of a person described in subsection (e) following resolution of the investigation or personnel action concerned is the final retirement grade provided for by section 1370(e) of this title. In the application of such section 1370(e) for purposes of this subsection, any reference to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed to be a reference to the analogous provision of this section. In the application of paragraph (3) of such section 1370e(e) for purposes of this subsection, the reference to
chapter 71
of this title shall be deemed to be a reference to
chapter 1223 of this title
.
(g)
Finality of retired grade determinations
(1)
In general
Except for a conditional determination authorized by subsection (e), a determination of the retired grade of a person pursuant to this section is administratively final on the day the person is retired, and may not be reopened.
(2)
Reopening
A determination of the retired grade of a person may be reopened in accordance with applicable provisions of section 1370(f) of this title. In the application of such section 1370(f) for purposes of this subsection, any reference to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed to be a reference to the analogous provision of this section. In the application of paragraph (7) of such section 1370(f) for purposes of this paragraph, the reference to
chapter 71 of this title
shall be deemed to be a reference to
chapter 1223 of this title
.
(h)
Highest permanent grade defined
In this section, the term
highest permanent grade
means a grade at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps or rear admiral in the Navy.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 69
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 1370 and inserting the following new items:
1370. Regular commissioned officers.
1370a. Officers entitled to retired pay for non-regular service.
.
(b)
Conforming and technical amendments to retired grade rules for the Armed Forces
(1)
Retired pay
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
(A)
In section 1406(b)(2), by striking
section 1370(d)
and inserting
section 1370a
.
(B)
In section 1407(f)(2)(B), by striking
by reason of denial of a determination or certification under section 1370
and inserting
pursuant to section 1370 or 1370a
.
(2)
Army
Section 7341 of such title is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new subsection (a):
(a)
(1)
The retired grade of a regular commissioned officer of the Army who retires other than for physical disability is determined under section 1370 of this title.
(2)
The retired grade of a reserve commissioned officer of the Army who retires other than for physical disability is determined under section 1370a of this title.
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
by striking
he
and inserting
the member
; and
(ii)
by striking
his
and inserting
the member's
.
(3)
Navy and Marine Corps
Such title is further amended as follows:
(A)
In section 8262(a), by striking
sections 689 and 1370
and inserting
section 689, and section 1370 or 1370a (as applicable),
.
(B)
In section 8323(c), by striking
section 1370 of this title
and inserting
section 1370 or 1370a of this title, as applicable
.
(4)
Air Force and Space Force
Section 9341 of such title is amended—
(A)
by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new subsection (a):
(a)
(1)
The retired grade of a regular commissioned officer of the Air Force or the Space Force who retires other than for physical disability is determined under section 1370 of this title.
(2)
The retired grade of a reserve commissioned officer of the Air Force or the Space Force who retires other than for physical disability is determined under section 1370a of this title.
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
by inserting
or a Regular or Reserve of the Space Force
after
Air Force
;
(ii)
by striking
he
and inserting
the member
; and
(iii)
by striking
his
and inserting
the member's
.
(5)
Reserve officers
Section 12771 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
section 1370(d)
and inserting
section 1370a of this title
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)(1), by striking
section 1370(d)
and inserting
section 1370a
.
(c)
Other references
In the determination of the retired grade of a commissioned officer of the Armed Forces entitled to retired pay under
chapter 1223
of title 10, United States Code, who retires after the date of the enactment of this Act, any reference in a provision of law or regulation to section 1370 of title 10, United States Code, in such determination with respect to such officer shall be deemed to be a reference to section 1370a of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)).
508.
Repeal of authority for original appointment of regular Navy officers designated for engineering duty, aeronautical engineering duty, and special duty
(a)
Repeal
Section 8137 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 815 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 8137.
B
Reserve Component Management
511.
Exclusion of certain reserve general and flag officers on active duty from limitations on authorized strengths
(a)
Duty for certain reserve officers under joint duty limited exclusion
Subsection (b) of section 526a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Duty for certain reserve officers
Of the officers designated pursuant to paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may designate up to 15 general and flag officer positions in the unified and specified combatant commands, and up to three general and flag officer positions on the Joint Staff, as positions to be held only by reserve officers who are in a general or flag officer grade below lieutenant general or vice admiral. Each position so designated shall be considered to be a joint duty assignment position for purposes of chapter 38 of this title.
.
(b)
Reserve officers on active duty for training or for less than 180 days
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (c) through (h) as subsections (d) through (i), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
(c)
Reserve officers on active duty for training or for less than 180 days
The limitations of this section do not apply to a reserve general or flag officer who—
(1)
is on active duty for training; or
(2)
is on active duty under a call or order specifying a period of less than 180 days.
.
C
General Service Authorities
516.
Increased access to potential recruits
(a)
Secondary schools
Section 503(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)—
(A)
in clause (i), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking
and telephone listings,
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
electronic mail addresses, home telephone numbers, and mobile telephone numbers, notwithstanding subsection (a)(5)(B) or (b) of section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act (
20 U.S.C. 1232g
); and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
shall provide information requested pursuant to clause (ii) within a reasonable period of time, but in no event later than 60 days after the date of the request.
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and telephone listing
and inserting
electronic mail address, home telephone number, or mobile telephone number
.
(b)
Institutions of higher education
Section 983(b) of such title is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and telephone listings
and inserting
electronic mail addresses, home telephone numbers, and mobile telephone numbers, which information shall be made available not later than 60 days after the start of classes for the current semester or not later than 60 days after the date of a request, whichever is later
; and
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to lists of students (who are 17 years of age or older) not returning to the institution after having been enrolled during the previous semester, together with student recruiting information and the reason why the student did not return, if collected by the institution.
.
517.
Temporary authority to order retired members to active duty in high-demand, low-density assignments during war or national emergency
Section 688a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection (g):
(g)
Exceptions during periods of war or national emergency
The limitations in subsections (c) and (f) shall not apply during a time of war or of national emergency declared by Congress or the President.
.
518.
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214) matters
(a)
Redesignation as Certificate of Military Service
(1)
In general
Department of Defense Form DD 214, the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, is hereby redesignated as the Certificate of Military Service.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 1168(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
discharge certificate or certificate of release from active duty, respectively,
and inserting
Certificate of Military Serve
.
(3)
References
Any reference in a law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to Department of Defense Form DD 214, the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, shall be deemed to be a reference to the Certificate of Military Service.
(4)
Technical amendments
Such section 1168(a) is further amended—
(A)
by striking
until his
and inserting
until the member's
;
(B)
by striking
his final pay
and inserting
the member's final pay
; and
(C)
by striking
him or his next of kin
and inserting
the member or the member's next of kin
.
(5)
Effective dates
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), this subsection and the amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on the date provided for in subsection (d) of section 569 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), as redesignated by subsection (b)(1)(B) of this section.
(B)
Technical amendments
The amendments made by paragraph (4) of this subsection shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Additional requirements
(1)
In general
Section 569 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) and (4), respectively;
(ii)
by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by clause (i), the following new paragraph (1);
(1)
redesignate such form as the Certificate of Military Service;
.
(iii)
in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking
and
at the end; and
(iv)
by inserting after paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following new paragraph:
(3)
provide for a standard total force record of military service for all members of the Armed Forces, including member of the reserve components, that summarizes the record of service for each member; and
;
(B)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively;
(C)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsections:
(b)
Issuance to Reserves
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the issuance of the Certificate of Military Service, as modified pursuant to subsection (a), to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces at such times during their military service as is appropriate to facilitate their access to benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Coordination
In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to ensure that the Certificate of Military Service, as modified pursuant to subsection (a), is recognized as the Certificate of Military Service referred to in section 1168(a) of title 10, United States Code, and for the purposes of establishing eligibility for applicable benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
; and
(D)
in subsection (d), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking
a revised Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), modified
and inserting
the Certificate of Military Service, as modified
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
The heading of such section 569 is amended to read as follows:
569.
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214) matters
.
(3)
Repeal of superseded requirements
Section 570 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is repealed.
519.
Evaluation of barriers to minority participation in certain units of the Armed Forces
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
In 1999, the RAND Corporation issued a report entitled
Barriers to Minority Participation in Special Operations Forces
that was sponsored by United States Special Operations Command.
(2)
In 2018, the RAND Corporation issued a report entitles
Understanding Demographic Differences in Undergraduate Pilot Training Attrition
that was sponsored by the Air Force.
(3)
No significant independent study has been performed by a federally funded research and development center into increasing minority participation in the special operations forces since 1999.
(b)
Study required
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center.
(2)
Elements
The evaluation under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
(A)
A description of the racial, ethnic, and gender composition of covered units.
(B)
A comparison of the participation rates of minority populations in covered units to participation rates of the general population as members and as officers of the Armed Forces.
(C)
A comparison of the percentage of minority officers in the grade of O–7 or higher who have served in each covered unit to such percentage for all such officers in the Armed Force of that covered unit.
(D)
An identification of barriers to minority participation in the accession, assessment, and training processes.
(E)
The status and effectiveness of the response to the recommendations contained in the report referred to in subsection (a)(1) and any follow-up recommendations.
(F)
Recommendations to increase the numbers of minority officers in the Armed Forces.
(G)
Recommendations to increase minority participation in covered units.
(H)
Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Report to congress
The Secretary shall—
(A)
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study by not later than January 1, 2022; and
(B)
provide interim briefings to such committees upon request.
(c)
Designation
The study conducted under subsection (b) shall be known as the
Study on Reducing Barriers to Minority Participation in Elite Units in the Armed Services
.
(d)
Implementation plan
The Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth an implementation plan for the recommendations that the Secretary implements under this section, including—
(1)
the response of the Secretary to each such recommendation;
(2)
a summary of actions the Secretary has carried out, or intends to carry out, to implement such recommendations, as appropriate; and
(3)
a schedule, with specific milestones, for completing the implementation of such recommendations.
(e)
Covered units defined
In this section, the term
covered units
means the following:
(1)
Any forces designated by the Secretary as special operations forces.
(2)
Air Force Combat Control Teams.
(3)
Air Force Pararescue.
(4)
Marine Corps Force Reconnaissance.
(5)
Coast Guard Deployable Operations Group.
(6)
Pilot and navigator military occupational specialties.
520.
Reports on diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces
(a)
Report on findings of Defense Board on Diversity and Inclusion in the Military
(1)
In general
Upon the completion by the Defense Board on Diversity and Inclusion in the Military of its report on actionable recommendations to increase racial diversity and ensure equal opportunity across all grades of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the report of the Defense Board, including the findings and recommendations of the Defense Board.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A comprehensive description of the findings and recommendations of the Defense Board in its report referred to in paragraph (1).
(B)
A comprehensive description of any actionable recommendations of the Defense Board in its report.
(C)
A description of the actions proposed to be undertaken by the Secretary in connection with such recommendations, and a timeline for implementation of such actions.
(D)
A description of the resources used by the Defense Board for its report, and a description and assessment of any shortfalls in such resources for purposes of the Defense Board.
(b)
Report on Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed Forces
(1)
In general
At the same time the Secretary of Defense submits the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall also submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed Forces.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
The mission statement or purpose of the Advisory Committee, and any proposed objectives and goals of the Advisory Committee.
(B)
A description of current members of the Advisory Committee and the criteria used for selecting members.
(C)
A description of the duties and scope of activities of the Advisory Committee.
(D)
The reporting structure of the Advisory Committee.
(E)
An estimate of the annual operating costs and staff years of the Advisory Committee.
(F)
An estimate of the number and frequency of meetings of the Advisory Committee.
(G)
Any subcommittees, established or proposed, that would support the Advisory Committee.
(H)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to extend the term of the Advisory Committee beyond the proposed termination date of the Advisory Committee.
(c)
Report on current diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces
(1)
In general
At the same time the Secretary of Defense submits the reports required by subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall also submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on current diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An identification of the current racial, ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed Force generally.
(B)
An identification of the current racial, ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed Force by grade.
(C)
A comparison of the participation rates of minority populations in officer grades, warrant officer grades, and enlisted member grades in each Armed Force with the percentage of such populations among the general population.
(D)
A comparison of the participation rates of minority populations in each career field in each Armed Force with the percentage of such populations among the general population.
(E)
A comparison among the Armed Forces of the percentage of minority populations in each officer grade above grade O–4.
(F)
A comparison among the Armed Forces of the percentage of minority populations in each enlisted grade above grade E–6.
(G)
A description and assessment of barriers to minority participation in the Armed Forces in connection with accession, assessment, and training.
(d)
Sense of Senate on Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed Forces
It is the sense of the Senate that the Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed Forces—
(1)
should consist of diverse group of individuals, including—
(A)
a general or flag officer from each regular component of the Armed Forces;
(B)
a retired general or flag officer from not fewer than two of the Armed Forces;
(C)
a regular officer of the Armed Forces in a grade O–5 or lower;
(D)
a regular enlisted member of the Armed Forces in a grade E–7 or higher;
(E)
a regular enlisted member of the Armed Forces in a grade E–6 or lower;
(F)
a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces in any grade;
(G)
a member of the Department of Defense civilian workforce;
(H)
an member of the academic community with expertise in diversity studies; and
(I)
an individual with appropriate expertise in diversity and inclusion;
(2)
should include individuals from a variety of military career paths, including—
(A)
aviation;
(B)
special operations;
(C)
intelligence;
(D)
cyber;
(E)
space; and
(F)
surface warfare;
(3)
should have a membership such that not fewer than 20 percent of members possess—
(A)
a firm understanding of the role of mentorship and best practices in finding and utilizing mentors;
(B)
experience and expertise in change of culture of large organizations; or
(C)
experience and expertise in implementation science; and
(4)
should focus on objectives that address—
(A)
barriers to promotion within the Armed Forces, including development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and increase racial diversity and ensure equal opportunity across all grades in the Armed Forces;
(B)
participation of minority officers and senior noncommissioned officers in the Armed Forces, including development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and increase such participation;
(C)
recruitment of minority candidates for innovative pre-service programs in the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC), Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (SROTC), and military service academies, including programs in connection with flight instruction, special operations, and national security, including development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and increase such recruitment;
(D)
retention of minority individuals in senior leadership and mentorship positions in the Armed Forces, including development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and increase such retention; and
(E)
achievement of cultural and ethnic diversity in recruitment for the Armed Forces, including development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and increase such diversity in recruitment.
D
Military Justice and Related Matters
I
Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault and Related Matters
521.
Modification of time required for expedited decisions in connection with applications for change of station or unit transfer of members who are victims of sexual assault or related offenses
(a)
In general
Section 673(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
72 hours
both places it appears and inserting
five calendar days
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply to decisions on applications for permanent change of station or unit transfer made under section 673 of title 10, United States Code, on or after that date.
522.
Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct
Section 550B of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(1)(B), by inserting
, including the United States Coast Guard Academy,
after
academy
;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
(3)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Advisory duties on Coast Guard Academy
In providing advice under subsection (c)(1)(B), the Advisory Committee shall also advise the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating in accordance with this section on policies, programs, and practices of the United States Coast Guard Academy.
; and
(4)
in subsection (e) and paragraph (2) of subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section, by striking
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives
each place it appears and inserting
the Committees on Armed Services and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committees on Armed Services and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives
.
523.
Report on ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform duties
(a)
Survey
(1)
In general
Not later than June 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a survey regarding the ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform their duties.
(2)
Elements
The survey required under paragraph (1) shall assess—
(A)
the current state of support provided to Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates, including—
(i)
perceived professional or other reprisal or retaliation; and
(ii)
access to sufficient physical and mental health services as a result of the nature of their work;
(B)
the ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to contact and access their installation commander or unit commander;
(C)
the ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to contact and access the immediate commander of victims and alleged offenders;
(D)
the responsiveness and receptiveness of commanders to the Sexual Assault Response Coordinators;
(E)
the support and services provided to victims of sexual assault;
(F)
the understanding of others of the process and their willingness to assist;
(G)
the adequacy of the training received by Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to effectively perform their duties; and
(H)
any other factors affecting the ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform their duties.
(b)
Report
Upon completion of the survey required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of the survey and any actions to be taken as a result of the survey.
524.
Briefing on Special Victims’ Counsel program
(a)
Briefing required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Coast Guard, and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the status of the Special Victims’ Counsel program of the Armed Force concerned.
(b)
Elements
Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the Special Victims Counsel program of the Armed Force concerned, the following:
(1)
An assessment of whether the Armed Force is in compliance with the provisions of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) relating to the Special Victims Counsel program and, if not, what steps have been taken to achieve compliance with such provisions.
(2)
An estimate of the average caseload of each Special Victims’ Counsel.
(3)
A description of any staffing shortfalls in the Special Victims’ Counsel program or other programs of the Armed Force resulting from the additional responsibilities required of the Special Victims’ Counsel program under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
(4)
An explanation of the ability of Special Victims’ Counsel to adhere to requirement that a counsel respond to a request for services within 72 hours of receiving such request.
(5)
An assessment of the feasibility of providing cross-service Special Victims’ Counsel representation in instances where a Special Victims’ Counsel from a different Armed Force is co-located with a victim at a remote base.
525.
Accountability of leadership of the Department of Defense for discharging the sexual harassment policies and programs of the Department
(a)
Strategy on holding leadership accountable required
The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement Department of Defense-wide a strategy to hold individuals in positions of leadership in the Department (including members of the Armed Forces and civilians) accountable for the promotion, support, and enforcement of the policies and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
(b)
Oversight framework
(1)
In general
The strategy required by subsection (a) shall provide for an oversight framework for the efforts of the Department of Defense to promote, support, and enforce the policies and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
(2)
Elements
The oversight framework required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Long-term goals, objectives, and milestones in connection with the policies and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
(B)
Strategies to achieve the goals, objectives, and milestones referred to in subparagraph (A).
(C)
Criteria for assessing progress toward the achievement of the goals, objectives, and milestones referred to in subparagraph (A).
(D)
Criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the policies and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
(E)
Mechanisms to ensure that adequate resources are available to the Office to develop and discharge the oversight framework.
(c)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the actions taken to carry out this section, including the strategy developed and implemented pursuant to subsection, and the oversight framework developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (b).
526.
Safe-to-report policy applicable across the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, prescribe in regulations a safe-to-report policy described in subsection (b) that applies with respect to all members of the Armed Forces (including members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces) and cadets and midshipmen at the military service academies.
(b)
Safe-to-report policy
The safe-to-report policy described in this subsection is a policy that prescribes the handling of minor collateral misconduct involving a member of the Armed Forces who is the alleged victim of sexual assault.
(c)
Aggravating circumstances
The regulations under subsection (a) shall specify aggravating circumstances that increase the gravity of minor collateral misconduct or its impact on good order and discipline for purposes of the safe-to-report policy.
(d)
Tracking of collateral misconduct incidents
In conjunction with the issuance of regulations under subsection (a), Secretary shall develop and implement a process to track incidents of minor collateral misconduct that are subject to the safe-to-report policy.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Armed Forces
has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, except such term does not include the Coast Guard.
(2)
The term
military service academy
means the following:
(A)
The United States Military Academy.
(B)
The United States Naval Academy.
(C)
The United States Air Force Academy.
(3)
The term
minor collateral misconduct
means any minor misconduct that is potentially punishable under
chapter 47
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), that—
(A)
is committed close in time to or during the sexual assault, and directly related to the incident that formed the basis of the sexual assault allegation;
(B)
is discovered as a direct result of the report of sexual assault or the ensuing investigation into the sexual assault; and
(C)
does not involve aggravating circumstances (as specified in the regulations prescribed under subsection (c)) that increase the gravity of the minor misconduct or its impact on good order and discipline.
527.
Additional bases for provision of advice by the Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct
Section 550B(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (E); and
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
Efforts among private employers to prevent sexual assault and sexual harassment among their employees.
(D)
Evidence-based studies on the prevention of sexual assault and sexual harassment in the Armed Forces, institutions of higher education, and the private sector.
.
528.
Additional matters for reports of the Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual Misconduct
Section 550B(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by adding at the end the following: “The report shall include the following:
(1)
A description and assessment of the extent and effectiveness of the inclusion by the Armed Forces of sexual assault prevention and response training in leader professional military education (PME), especially in such education for personnel in junior noncommissioned officer grades.
(2)
An assessment of the feasibility of—
(A)
the screening of recruits before entry into military service for prior incidents of sexual assault and harassment, including through background checks; and
(B)
the administration of screening tests to recruits to assess recruit views and beliefs on equal opportunity, and whether such views and beliefs are compatible with military service.
(3)
An assessment of the feasibility of conducting exit interviews of members of the Armed Forces upon their discharge release from the Armed Forces in order to determine whether they experienced or witnessed sexual assault or harassment during military service and did not report it, and an assessment of the feasibility of combining such exit interviews with the Catch a Serial Offender (CATCH) Program of the Department of Defense.
(4)
An assessment whether the sexual assault reporting databases of the Department are sufficiently anonymized to ensure privacy while still providing military leaders with the information as follows:
(A)
The approximate length of time the victim and the assailant had been at the duty station at which the sexual assault occurred.
(B)
The percentage of sexual assaults occurring while the victim or assailant were on temporary duty, leave, or otherwise away from their permanent duty station.
(C)
The number of sexual assaults that involve an abuse of power by a commander or supervisor.
.
529.
Policy on separation of victim and accused at military service academies and degree-granting military educational institutions
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, the Superintendent of each military service academy, and the head of each degree-granting military educational institution, prescribe in regulations a policy under which association between a cadet or midshipman of a military service academy, or a member of the Armed Forces enrolled in a degree-granting military educational institution, who is the alleged victim of a sexual assault and the accused is minimized while both parties complete their course of study at the academy or institution concerned.
(b)
Elements
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the policy developed under subsection (a)—
(1)
is fair to the both the alleged victim and the accused;
(2)
provides for the confidentiality of the parties involved;
(3)
provide that notice of the policy, including the elements of the policy and the right to opt out of coverage by the policy, is provided to the alleged victim upon the making of an allegation of a sexual assault covered by the policy; and
(4)
provide an alleged victim the right to opt out of coverage by the policy in connection with such sexual assault.
(c)
Military service academy defined
The term
military service academy
means the following:
(1)
The United States Military Academy.
(2)
The United States Naval Academy.
(3)
The United States Air Force Academy.
(4)
The United States Coast Guard Academy.
530.
Briefing on placement of members of the Armed Forces in academic status who are victims of sexual assault onto Non-Rated Periods
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the feasibility and advisability, and current practice (if any), of the Department of Defense of granting requests by members of the Armed Forces who are in academic status (whether at the military service academies or in developmental education programs) and who are victims of sexual assault to be placed on a Non-Rated Period for their performance report.
II
Other Military Justice Matters
531.
Right to notice of victims of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice regarding certain post-trial motions, filings, and hearings
Section 806b(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code (article 6b(a)(2)) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph (D):
(D)
A post-trial motion, filing, or hearing that may address the finding or sentence of a court-martial with respect to the accused, unseal privileged or private information of the victim, or result in the release of the accused.
.
532.
Consideration of the evidence by Courts of Criminal Appeals
(a)
In general
Section 866 of title 10, United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (e) through (j) as subsections (f) through (k), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
Consideration of the evidence
(1)
In general
In an appeal of a finding of guilty under subsection (b), the Court of Criminal Appeals, upon request of the accused, may consider the weight of the evidence upon a specific showing by the accused of deficiencies in proof. The Court may set aside and dismiss a finding if clearly convinced that the finding was against the weight of the evidence. The Court may affirm a lesser finding. A rehearing may not be ordered.
(2)
Deference in consideration
When considering a case under subsection (b), the Court may weigh the evidence and determine controverted questions of fact, subject to—
(A)
appropriate deference to the fact that the court-martial saw and heard the witnesses and other evidence; and
(B)
appropriate deference to findings of fact entered into the record by the military judge.
.
(b)
Additional qualifications of appellate military judges
Subsection (a) of such section (article) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
Each judge
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
(A)
In addition to any other qualifications specified in paragraph (1), any commissioned officer assigned as an appellate military judge to a Court of Criminal Appeals shall have not fewer than 12 years of experience in military justice assignments before such assignment, and any civilian so assigned shall have not fewer than 12 years as a judge or criminal trial attorney before such assignment.
(B)
A Judge Advocate General may waive the requirement in subparagraph (A) in connection with the assignment of an officer or civilian as an appellate military judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals if the Judge Advocate General determines that compliance with the requirement in the assignment of appellate military judges to a Court of Criminal Appeals will impair the ability of the Court to hear and decide appeals in a timely manner.
(C)
Not later than 120 days after waiving the requirement in subparagraph (A) pursuant to subparagraph (B), the Judge Advocate General shall notify the congressional defense committees of the waiver, and include with the notice an explanation for the shortage of appellate military judges and a plan for addressing such shortage.
.
(c)
Review by full Court of finding of conviction against weight of evidence
Subsection (e) of such section (article), as amended by subsection (a) of this section, is further is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
Review by full Court of finding of conviction against weight of evidence
Any determination by the Court that a finding was clearly against the weight of the evidence under paragraph (1) shall be reviewed by the Court sitting as a whole.
.
533.
Preservation of records of the military justice system
Section 940a of title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Preservation of records without regard to outcome
The standards and criteria prescribed established by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (a) shall provide for the preservation of records, without regard to the outcome of the proceeding concerned, for not fewer than 15 years.
.
534.
Comptroller General of the United States report on implementation by the Armed Forces of recent GAO recommendations and statutory requirements on assessment of racial, ethnic, and gender disparities in the military justice system
(a)
Report required
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report, in writing, on a study, conducted by the Comptroller General for purposes of the report, on the implementation by the Armed Forces of the following:
(1)
The recommendations in the May 2019 report of the General Accountability Office entitled
Military Justice: DOD and the Coast Guard Need to Improve Their Capabilities to Assess Racial and Gender Disparities
(GAO–19–344).
(2)
Requirements in section 540I(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), relating to assessments covered by such recommendations.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include, for each recommendation and requirement specified in that subsection, the following:
(1)
A description of the actions taken or planned by the Department of Defense, the military department concerned, or the Armed Force concerned to implement such recommendation or requirement.
(2)
An assessment of the extent to which the actions taken to implement such recommendation or requirement, as described pursuant to paragraph (1), are effective or meet the intended objective.
(3)
Any other matters in connection with such recommendation or requirement, and the implementation of such recommendation or requirement by the Armed Forces, that the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
(c)
Briefings
Not later than May 1, 2021, the Comptroller General shall provide the committees referred to in subsection (a) one or more briefings on the status of the study required by that subsection, including any preliminary findings and recommendations of the Comptroller General as a result of the study as of the date of such briefing.
535.
Briefing on mental health support for vicarious trauma for certain personnel in the military justice system
(a)
Briefing required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall jointly brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the mental health support for vicarious trauma provided to personnel in the military justice system specified in subsection (b).
(b)
Personnel
The personnel specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Trial counsel.
(2)
Defense counsel.
(3)
Special Victims' Counsel.
(4)
Military investigative personnel.
(c)
Elements
The briefing required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description and assessment of the mental health support for vicarious trauma provided to personnel in the military justice system specified in subsection (b), including a description of the support services available and the support services being used.
(2)
A description and assessment of mechanisms to eliminate or reduce stigma in the pursuit by such personnel of such mental health support.
(3)
An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of providing such personnel with breaks between assignments or cases as part of such mental health support in order to reduce the effects of vicarious trauma.
(4)
A description and assessment of the extent, if any, to which duty of such personnel on particular types of cases, or in particular caseloads, contributes to vicarious trauma, and of the extent, if any, to which duty on such cases or caseloads has an effect on retention of such personnel in the Armed Forces.
(5)
A description of the extent, if any, to which such personnel are screened or otherwise assessed for vicarious trauma before discharge or release from the Armed Forces.
(6)
Such other matters in connection with the provision of mental health support for vicarious trauma to such personnel as the Judge Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate jointly consider appropriate.
536.
Guardian ad litem program for minor dependents of members of the Armed Forces
Section 540L(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
; 133 Stat. 1373) is amended by adding before the period at the end the following:
, including an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of establishing a guardian ad litem program for military dependents living outside the United States
.
E
Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience
541.
Training on religious accommodation for members of the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
As recommended on page 149 of the Report of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate to Accompany S. 1519 (115th Congress) (Senate Report 115–125), the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement training on Federal statutes, Department of Defense instructions, and the regulations of each Armed Force regarding religious liberty and accommodation for members of the Armed Forces, including the responsibility of commanders to maintain good order and discipline.
(b)
Consultation
The Secretary develop and implement the training required by subsection (a) in consultation with the following:
(1)
The General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
(2)
The Judge Advocate General of the Army, the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, and the Judge Advocate General of the Air Force.
(3)
The Chief of Chaplains of the Army, the Chief of Chaplains of the Navy, and the Chief of Chaplains of the Air Force.
(c)
Contents
The content of the training shall be consistent with and include coverage of each of the following:
(1)
The Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (
42 U.S.C. 2000bb
et seq.).
(2)
Section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. prec. 1030 note).
(3)
Section 528 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 814).
(d)
Implementation
(1)
Recipients
The recipients of training developed under subsection (a) shall include the following at all levels of command:
(A)
Commanders
(B)
Chaplains.
(C)
Judge advocates.
(D)
Such other members of the Armed Forces as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Commencement
The provision of training developed under subsection (a) shall commence not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
542.
Additional elements with 2021 certifications on the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy
(a)
Additional elements
In submitting to Congress in 2021 the certifications required by section 545 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1396;
10 U.S.C. 8431
note prec.), relating to the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy, the Secretary of the Navy shall also submit each of the following:
(1)
A life cycle sustainment plan for the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative meeting the requirements in subsection (b).
(2)
A report on the use of readiness assessment teams in training addressing the elements specified in subsection (c).
(b)
Life cycle sustainment plan
The life cycle sustainment plan required by subsection (a)(1) shall include a description of the approved life cycle sustainment plan for the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative, including with respect to each of the following:
(1)
Product support management.
(2)
Supply support.
(3)
Packaging, handling, storage, and transportation.
(4)
Maintenance planning and management.
(5)
Design interface.
(6)
Sustainment engineering.
(7)
Technical data.
(8)
Computer resources.
(9)
Facilities and infrastructure.
(10)
Manpower and personnel.
(11)
Support equipment.
(12)
Training and training support.
(13)
Governance, including the acquisition and program management structure.
(14)
Such other elements in the life cycle sustainment of the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Report on use of readiness assessment teams
The report required by subsection (a)(2) shall set forth the following:
(1)
A description and assessment of the extent to which the Navy is currently using Engineering Readiness Assessment Teams (ERAT) and Combat Systems Readiness Assessment Teams (CSRAT) to conduct unit-level training and assistance in each capacity as follows:
(A)
To augment non-Ready, Relevant Learning initiative training.
(B)
As part of Ready, Relevant Learning initiative training.
(C)
To train students on legacy, obsolete, one of a kind, or unique systems that are still widely used by the Navy.
(D)
To train students on military-specific systems that are not found in the commercial maritime world.
(2)
A description and assessment of potential benefits, and anticipated timelines and costs, in expanding Engineering Readiness Assessment Team and Combat Systems Readiness Assessment Team training in the capacities specified in paragraph (1).
(3)
Such other matters in connection with the use of readiness assessment teams in connection with the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative as the Secretary considers appropriate.
543.
Report on standardization and potential merger of law enforcement training for military and civilian personnel across the Department of Defense
(a)
Report required
Not later than June 8, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the standardization and potential merger of law enforcement training for military and civilian personnel across the Department of Defense, including training of military or civilian personnel of the Department designated in accordance with section 2762 of title 10, United States Code, to protect buildings, grounds, and property under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the Department and the persons on such property.
(b)
Elements
In developing the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall do, and include in the report the results of, the following:
(1)
Identify and assess current law enforcement training courses, schools, and programs of the Armed Forces that have the flexibility and capacity to support the training referred to in subsection (a) through common training standards.
(2)
Identify and assess current Department law enforcement training courses, schools, and programs that are affiliated with or accredited by third parties (including both governmental and private entities), including an assessment of the value derived from such affiliation or accreditation to the training referred to in subsection (a).
(3)
Identify emerging law enforcement training requirements that are common among the Armed Forces and other Department law enforcement components and are currently unmet by the Armed Forces or such components.
(4)
Assess the feasibility, advisability, and suitability of incorporating standardized and merged field and operational training in military law enforcement mission areas, including area security operations, law and order operations, internment and resettlement operations, and police intelligence operations, in the training provided to all Armed Forces and other Department law enforcement components.
(5)
Identify and assess Department courses, programs, or institutions with the capability to support law enforcement training or information sharing between Department military and civilian law enforcement components and State, county, and local law enforcement agencies, with the capability to support law enforcement components of the National Guard and other reserve components of the Armed Forces, or with both such capabilities.
(6)
Assess the feasibility, advisability, and suitability of standardizing and merging the training referred to in subsection (a) across the Department, including an assessment of the costs of such standardization and merger.
(7)
Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
544.
Quarterly reports on implementation of recommendations of the Comprehensive Review of Special Operations Forces Culture and Ethics
(a)
Quarterly reports required
Not later than March 1, 2021, and every 90 days thereafter through March 1, 2024, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict shall, in coordination with the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the current status of the implementation of the actions recommended as a result of the Comprehensive Review of Special Operations Forces Culture and Ethics.
(b)
Elements
Each report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A list of the actions required as of the date of such report to complete full implementation of each of the 16 actions recommended by the Comprehensive Review referred to in subsection (a).
(2)
An identification of the office responsible for completing each action listed pursuant to paragraph (1), and an estimated timeline for completion of such action.
(3)
If completion of any action listed pursuant to paragraph (1) requires resources or actions for which authorization by statute is required, a recommendation for legislative action for such authorization.
(4)
Any other matters the Assistant Secretary or the Commander considers appropriate.
545.
Information on nominations and applications for military service academies
(a)
Report on congressional nominations portal
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Superintendents of the military service academies, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of a uniform online portal for all military service academies that enables Members of Congress to nominate individuals for appointment to each academy through a secure website.
(2)
Information collection and reporting
For purposes of preparing the report required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall treat the online portal described in that paragraph as permitting the collection, from each Member of Congress, of the demographic information described in subsection (b) for each individual nominated by the Member.
(3)
Availability of information
For purposes of preparing the report, the Secretary shall treat the online portal as permitting Members of Congress and their designees to view past nomination records for all application cycles.
(4)
Matters in connection with establishment of portal
If the Secretary determines that the online portal is feasible and advisable, the report shall include—
(A)
a comprehensive description of the online portal; and
(B)
such recommendations for legislative and administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to establish and maintain the online portal.
(b)
Standard classifications for collection of demographic data
(1)
Standards required
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Superintendents of the military service academies, establish standard classifications that cadets, midshipmen, and applicants to the academies may use to self-identify gender, race, and ethnicity and to provide other demographic information in connection with admission to or enrollment in an academy.
(2)
Consistency with OMB guidance
The standard classifications established under paragraph (1) shall be consistent with the standard classifications specified in Office of Management and Budget Directive No. 15 (pertaining to race and ethnic standards for Federal statistics and administrative reporting) or any successor directive.
(3)
Incorporation into applications and records
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall incorporate the standard classifications established under paragraph (1) into—
(A)
applications for admission to the military service academies; and
(B)
the military personnel records of cadets and midshipmen enrolled in such academies.
(c)
Military service academy defined
In this section, the term
military service academy
means—
(1)
the United States Military Academy;
(2)
the United States Naval Academy; and
(3)
the United States Air Force Academy.
546.
Pilot programs in connection with Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at Historically Black Colleges and Universities and minority institutions
(a)
Pilot programs authorized
The Secretary of Defense may carry out either or both of the pilot programs as follows:
(1)
A pilot program, with elements as provided for in subsection (c), at covered institutions in order to assess the feasibility and advisability of mechanisms to reduce barriers to participation in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps at such institutions by creating partnerships between satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at such institutions and military installations.
(2)
A pilot program, with elements as provided for in subsection (d), in order to assess the feasibility and advisability of the provision of financial assistance to members of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps at covered institutions for participation in flight training.
(b)
Duration
The duration of each pilot program under subsection (a) may not exceed five years.
(c)
Pilot program on partnerships between satellite or extension SROTC units and military installations
(1)
Participating institutions
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1) at not fewer than five covered institutions selected by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
(2)
Requirements for selection
Each covered institution selected by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1) shall—
(A)
currently maintain a satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit under
chapter 103
of title 10, United States Code, that is located more than 20 miles from the host unit of such unit; or
(B)
establish and maintain a satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit that meets the requirements in subparagraph (A).
(3)
Preference in selection of institutions
In selecting covered institutions under this subsection for participation in the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall give preference to covered institutions that are located within 20 miles of a military installation of the same Armed Force as the host unit of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corp of the covered institution concerned.
(4)
Partnership activities
The activities conducted under the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1) between a satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit and the military installation concerned shall include such activities designed to reduce barriers to participation in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps at the covered institution concerned as the Secretary considers appropriate, including measures to mitigate travel time and expenses in connection with receipt of Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps instruction.
(d)
Pilot program on financial assistance for SROTC members for flight training
(1)
Eligibility for participation by SROTC members
A member of a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit at a covered institution may participate in the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(2) if the member meets such academic requirements at the covered institution, and such other requirements, as the Secretary shall establish for purposes of the pilot program.
(2)
Preference in selection of participants
In selecting members under this subsection for participation in the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall give a preference to members who will pursue flight training under the pilot program at a covered institution.
(3)
Financial assistance for flight training
(A)
In general
The Secretary may provide any member of a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps who participates in the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(2) financial assistance to defray, whether in whole or in part, the charges and fees imposed on the member for flight training.
(B)
Flight training
Financial assistance may be used under subparagraph (A) for a course of flight training only if the course meets Federal Aviation Administration standards and is approved by the Federal Aviation Administration and the applicable State approving agency.
(C)
Use
Financial assistance received by a member under subparagraph (A) may be used only to defray the charges and fees imposed on the member as described in that subparagraph.
(D)
Cessation of eligibility
Financial assistance may not be provided to a member under subparagraph (A) as follows:
(i)
If the member ceases to meet the academic and other requirements established pursuant to paragraph (1).
(ii)
If the member ceases to be a member of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
(e)
Evaluation metrics
The Secretary of Defense shall establish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot programs under subsection (a).
(f)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after the commencement of the pilot programs under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot programs. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of each pilot program, including in the case of the pilot program under subsection (a)(2) the requirements established pursuant to subsection (d)(1).
(B)
The evaluation metrics established under subsection (e).
(C)
Such other matters relating to the pilot programs as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Annual report
Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year in which the Secretary carries out the pilot programs, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot programs during such fiscal year. Each report shall include, for the fiscal year covered by such report, the following:
(A)
In the case of the pilot program under subsection (a)(1), a description of the partnerships between satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units and military installations under the pilot program.
(B)
In the case of the pilot program under subsection (a)(2), the following:
(i)
The number of members of Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at covered institutions selected for purposes of the pilot program, including the number of such members participating in the pilot program.
(ii)
The number of recipients of financial assistance provided under the pilot program, including the number who—
(I)
completed a ground school course of instruction in connection with obtaining a private pilot's certificate;
(II)
completed flight training, and the type of training, certificate, or both received;
(III)
were selected for a pilot training slot in the Armed Forces;
(IV)
initiated pilot training in the Armed Forces; or
(V)
successfully completed pilot training in the Armed Forces.
(iii)
The amount of financial assistance provided under the pilot program, broken out by covered institution, course of study, and such other measures as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(C)
Data collected in accordance with the evaluation metrics established under subsection (e).
(3)
Final report
Not later than 180 days prior to the completion of the pilot programs, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot programs. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the pilot programs.
(B)
An assessment of the effectiveness of each pilot program.
(C)
A description of the cost of each pilot program, and an estimate of the cost of making each pilot program permanent.
(D)
An estimate of the cost of expanding each pilot program throughout all eligible Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units.
(E)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot programs, including recommendations for extending or making permanent the authority for each pilot program.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered institution
has the meaning given that term in section 262(g)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(2)
The term
flight training
means a course of instruction toward obtaining any of the following:
(A)
A private pilot’s certificate.
(B)
A commercial pilot certificate.
(C)
A certified flight instructor certificate.
(D)
A multi-crew pilot’s license.
(E)
A flight instrument rating.
(F)
Any other certificate, rating, or pilot privilege the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
(3)
The term
military installation
means an installation of the Department of Defense for the regular components of the Armed Forces.
547.
Expansion of Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Program
(a)
Expansion of JROTC curriculum
Section 2031(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
service to the United States
the following:
(including an introduction to service opportunities in military, national, and public service)
.
(b)
Plan to increase number of JROTC units
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, develop and implement a plan to establish and support not fewer than 6,000 units of the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps by September 30, 2031.
548.
Department of Defense STARBASE Program
Section 2193b(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
before
and Guam
.
F
Decorations and Awards
551.
Award or presentation of decorations favorably recommended following determination on merits of proposals for decorations not previously submitted in a timely fashion
(a)
Award or presentation authorized
Section 1130 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
(1)
A decoration may be awarded or presented following the submission of a favorable recommendation for the award or presentation of the decoration under subsection (b).
(2)
An award or presentation of a decoration under paragraph (1) may not occur before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of the submission under subsection (b) of the favorable recommendation regarding the award or presentation of the decoration.
(3)
The authority to make an award or presentation of a decoration under this subsection shall apply notwithstanding any limitation described in subsection (a).
.
(b)
Conforming and clerical amendments
(1)
Section heading
The heading of section 1130 of such title is amended to read as follows:
1130.
Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously submitted in timely fashion: procedures for review and award or presentation
.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 57 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 1130 and inserting the following new item:
1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously submitted in timely fashion: procedures for review and award or presentation.
.
552.
Honorary promotion matters
(a)
Honorary promotions on initiative of DoD
Chapter 80
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1563
the following new section:
1563a.
Honorary promotions on the initiative of the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
(1)
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary may make an honorary promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a former member or retired member of the armed forces to any grade not exceeding the grade of major general, rear admiral (upper half), or an equivalent grade in the Space Force if the Secretary determines that the promotion is merited.
(2)
The authority to make an honorary promotion under this subsection shall apply notwithstanding that the promotion is not otherwise authorized by law.
(b)
Notice to Congress
The Secretary may not make an honorary promotion pursuant to subsection (a) until 60 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a notice of the determination to make the promotion, including a detailed discussion of the rationale supporting the determination.
(c)
Notice of promotion
Upon making an honorary promotion pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall expeditiously notify the former member or retired member concerned, or the next of kin of such former member or retired member if such former member or retired member is deceased, of the promotion.
(d)
Nature of promotion
Any promotion pursuant to this section is honorary, and shall not affect the pay, retired pay, or other benefits from the United States to which the former member or retired member concerned is entitled or would have been entitled based on the military service of such former member or retired member, nor affect any benefits to which any other person is or may become entitled based on the military service of such former member or retired member.
.
(b)
Modification of authorities on review of proposals from Congress
(1)
Standardization of authorities with authorities on DoD initiative
Section 1563 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in the first sentence, by striking
the posthumous or honorary promotion or appointment of a member or former member of the armed forces, or any other person considered qualified,
and inserting
the honorary promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a former member or retired member of the armed forces
; and
(ii)
in the second sentence, by striking
the posthumous or honorary promotion or appointment
and inserting
the promotion
; and
(B)
in subsection (b), by striking
the posthumous or honorary promotion or appointment
and inserting
the honorary promotion
.
(2)
Authority To make honorary promotions following review of proposals
Such section is further amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Authority To make
(1)
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Defense may make an honorary promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a former member or retired member of the armed forces to any grade not exceeding the grade of major general, rear admiral (upper half), or an equivalent grade in the Space Force following the submittal of the determination of the Secretary concerned under subsection (b) in connection with the proposal for the promotion if the determination is to approve the making of the promotion.
(2)
The Secretary of Defense may not make an honorary promotion under this subsection until 60 days after the date on which the Secretary concerned submits the determination in connection with the proposal for the promotion under subsection (b), and the detailed rationale supporting the determination as described in that subsection, to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives and the requesting Member in accordance with that subsection.
(3)
The authority to make an honorary promotion under this subsection shall apply notwithstanding that the promotion is not otherwise authorized by law.
(4)
Any promotion pursuant to this subsection is honorary, and shall not affect the pay, retired pay, or other benefits from the United States to which the former member or retired member concerned is or would have been entitled based upon the military service of such former member or retired member, nor affect any benefits to which any other person may become entitled based on the military service of such former member or retired member.
.
(3)
Heading amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
1563.
Consideration of proposals from Members of Congress for honorary promotions: procedures for review and promotion
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 80 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 1563 and inserting the following new items:
1563. Consideration of proposals from Members of Congress for honorary promotions: procedures for review and promotion.
1563a. Honorary promotions on the initiative of the Department of Defense.
.
G
Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
I
Defense Dependents' Education Matters
561.
Continuation
of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of
members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian
employees
(a)
Assistance to
schools with significant numbers of military dependent
students
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $50,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
;
20 U.S.C. 7703b
).
(b)
Local
educational agency defined
In this section, the term
local educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7713(9)
).
562.
Impact aid for
children with severe disabilities
(a)
In general
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by
Public Law 106–398
; 114 Stat. 1654A–77;
20 U.S.C. 7703a
).
(b)
Additional amount
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for use by the Secretary of Defense to make payments to local educational agencies determined by the Secretary to have higher concentrations of military children with severe disabilities.
(c)
Report
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the Department’s evaluation of each local educational agency with higher concentrations of military children with severe disabilities and subsequent determination of the amounts of impact aid each such agency shall receive.
563.
Staffing of Department of Defense Education Activity schools to maintain maximum student-to-teacher ratios
(a)
In general
The Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) shall staff elementary and secondary schools operated by the Activity so as to maintain, to the extent practicable, student-to-teacher ratios that do not exceed the maximum student-to-teacher ratios specified in subsection (b).
(b)
Maximum student-to-teacher ratios
The maximum student-to-teacher ratios specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
For each of grades kindergarten through 3, a ratio of 18 students to 1 teacher (18:1).
(2)
For each of grades 4 through 12, a ratio equal to the average student-to-teacher ratio for such grade among all Department of Defense Education Activity schools during the 2019–2020 academic year.
(c)
Sunset
The requirement to staff schools in accordance with subsection (a) shall expire at the end of the 2023–2024 academic year of the Department of Defense Education Activity.
564.
Matters in connection with free appropriate public education for dependents of members of the Armed Forces with special needs
(a)
Information on disputes regarding receipt of free appropriate public education by special needs dependents
(1)
In general
Each Secretary of a military department shall collect and maintain information on special education disputes filed by members of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
(2)
Information
The information collected and maintained pursuant to this subsection shall include the following:
(A)
The number of special education disputes filed.
(B)
The outcome or disposition of the disputes.
(3)
Source of information
The information collected and maintained pursuant to this subsection shall be derived from the following:
(A)
Records and reports of case managers and navigators under the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) of the Department of Defense.
(B)
Reports of members of the Armed Forces concerned to installation or other military leadership.
(C)
Such other sources as the Secretary of the military department concerned considers appropriate.
(4)
Annual reports
Each Secretary of a military department shall submit each year to the Office of Special Needs of the Department of Defense a report on the information collected by such Secretary pursuant to this subsection during the preceding year.
(b)
Comptroller General of the United States study
(1)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on the following:
(A)
The consequences for a State or local educational agency of a finding of failure to provide a free appropriate public education to a military dependent.
(B)
The manner in which local educational agencies with military families use the following:
(i)
Funds received under section 7003(d) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7703(d)
).
(ii)
Funds authorized to be appropriated by annual national defense authorization Acts and made available for impact aid for child with severe disabilities under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (
20 U.S.C. 7703a
).
(iii)
Funds authorized to be appropriated by annual national defense authorization Acts and made available for assistance to schools with significant number of military dependent students under subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 7703b
).
(C)
The efficacy of attorney and other legal support for military families in special education disputes.
(D)
The standardization of policies and guidance for School Liaison Officers between the Office of Special Needs of the Department of Defense and the military departments, and the efficacy of such policies and guidance.
(E)
The improvements of family support programs of the Office of Special Needs, and of each military department, in light of the recommendations of the Comptroller General in the report entitled
DOD Should Improve Its Oversight of the Exceptional Family Member Program
, GAO–18–348.
(2)
Recommendations
In conducting the study, the Comptroller General shall develop recommendations on the following:
(A)
Improvements and enhancements to oversight and enforcement of compliance by local educational agencies with requirements for the provision of a free appropriate public education to military dependents with special needs.
(B)
Improvements to the policies of the Office of Special Needs, and of each military department, with respect to the standardization and efficacy of policies and programs for military dependents with special needs.
(3)
Deadline for completion
The Comptroller General shall complete the study by not later than March 31, 2021.
(4)
Briefing and report
Upon completion of the study, the Comptroller General shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the results of the study, and shall submit to such committees a report on such results.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
free appropriate public education
includes appropriate special education and related services required under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (
20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.)
(2)
The term
local educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
The term
special education dispute
means a complaint filed regarding the education provided a child with a disability (as defined in section 602 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (
20 U.S.C. 1401
), including a complaint filed in accordance with section 615 or 639 of such Act (
20 U.S.C. 1415
, 1439).
565.
Pilot program on expanded eligibility for Department of Defense Education Activity Virtual High School program
(a)
Pilot program required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program on permitting dependents of members of the Armed Forces on active duty to enroll in the Department of Defense Education Activity Virtual High School program (in this section referred to as the
DVHS program
).
(2)
Purposes
The purposes of the pilot program shall be as follows:
(A)
To evaluate the feasibility and scalability of the DVHS program.
(B)
To assess the impact of expanded enrollment in the DVHS program under the pilot program on military and family readiness.
(3)
Duration
The duration of the pilot program shall be four academic years.
(b)
Participants
(1)
In general
Participants in the pilot program shall be selected by the Secretary from among dependents of members of the Armed Forces on active duty who—
(A)
are in a grade 9 through 12;
(B)
are currently ineligible to enroll in the DVHS program; and
(C)
either—
(i)
require supplementary courses to meet graduation requirements in the current State of residence; or
(ii)
otherwise demonstrate to the Secretary a clear need to participate in the DVHS program.
(2)
Preference in selection
In selecting participants in the pilot program, the Secretary shall afford a preference to the following:
(A)
Dependents who reside in a rural area.
(B)
Dependents who are home-schooled students.
(3)
Limitations
The total number of course enrollments per academic year authorized under the pilot program may not exceed 400 course enrollments. No single dependent participating in the pilot program may take more than two courses per academic year under the pilot program.
(c)
Reports
(1)
Interim report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an interim report on the pilot program.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph (1) a final report on the pilot programs.
(3)
Elements
Each report under this subsection shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the demographics of the dependents participating in the pilot program through the date of such report.
(B)
Data on, and an assessment of, student performance in virtual coursework by dependents participating in the pilot program over the duration of the pilot program.
(C)
Such recommendation as the Secretary considers appropriate on whether to make the pilot program permanent.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
rural area
has the meaning given the term in section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949 (
42 U.S.C. 1490
).
(2)
The term
home-schooled student
means a student in a grade equivalent to grade 9 through 12 who receives educational instruction at home or by other non-traditional means outside of a public or private school system, either all or most of the time.
566.
Pilot program on expansion of eligibility for enrollment at domestic dependent elementary and secondary schools
(a)
Pilot program required
Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program under which a dependent of a full-time, active-duty member of the Armed Forces may enroll in a covered DODEA school at the military installation to which the member is assigned, on a space-available basis as described in subsection (c), without regard to whether the member resides on the installation as described in 2164(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
(b)
Purposes
The purposes of the pilot program under this section are—
(1)
to evaluate the feasibility and advisability of expanding enrollment in covered DODEA schools; and
(2)
to determine how increased access to such schools will affect military and family readiness.
(c)
Enrollment on space-available basis
A student participating in the pilot program under this section may be enrolled in a covered DODEA school only if the school has the capacity to accept the student, as determined by the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity.
(d)
Locations
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program under this section at not more than four military installations at which covered DODEA schools are located. The Secretary shall select military installations for participation in the pilot program based on—
(1)
the readiness needs of the Secretary of a the military department concerned; and
(2)
the capacity of the DODEA schools located at the installation to accept additional students, as determined by the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity.
(e)
Termination
The authority to carry out the pilot program under this section shall terminate four years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Covered DODEA school defined
In this section, the term
covered DODEA school
means a domestic dependent elementary or secondary school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity that—
(1)
has been established on or before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
is located in the continental United States.
567.
Comptroller General of the United States report on the structural condition of Department of Defense Education Activity schools
(a)
Report required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth an assessment by the Comptroller General of the structural condition of schools of the Department of Defense Education Activity, both within the continental United States (CONUS) and outside the continental United States (OCONUS).
(b)
Virtual schools
The report shall include an assessment of the virtual infrastructure or other means by which students attend Department of Defense Education Activity schools that have no physical structure, including the satisfaction of the military families concerned with such infrastructure or other means.
II
Military Family Readiness Matters
571.
Responsibility for allocation of certain funds for military child development programs
Section 1791 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(a)
Policy
.—
before
It is the policy
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Responsibility for allocations of certain funds
The Secretary of Defense shall be responsible for the allocation of Office of the Secretary of Defense level funds for military child development programs for children from birth through 12 years of age, and may not delegate such responsibility to the military departments.
.
572.
Improvements to Exceptional Family Member Program
Section 1781c of title 10, United States Code is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b), by striking
enhance
and inserting
standardize, enhance,
;
(2)
in subsection (c)(1), by inserting
and standard
after
comprehensive
;
(3)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
update from time to time
and inserting
regularly update
;
(B)
in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
Ability to request a second review of the approved assignment within or outside the continental United States if the member believes the location is inappropriate for the member's family and would cause undue hardship.
(D)
Protection from having a medical recommendation for an approved assignment overriden by the commanding officer.
(E)
Ability to request continuation of location when there is a documented substantial risk of transferring medical care or educational services to a new provider or school at the specific time of permanent change of station.
(F)
If an order for assignment is declined for a military family with special needs, the member will receive a reason for the decline of that order.
; and
(C)
in paragraph (4), by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(H)
Procedures to right-size the Department's Exceptional Family Member Program to ensure efficient and effective enrollment, for sufficient staffing dedicated to providing family support services, to include comprehensive training, education and outreach services, and sufficient oversight and administrative support for effective program operation.
(I)
Requirements to prohibit disenrollment from the Exceptional Family Member Program unless there is new supporting medical or educational information that indicates the original condition is no longer present, and to track disenrollment data per military service.
;
(4)
by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
(5)
by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
(f)
Metrics
The Secretary of Defense shall implement performance metrics for measuring, across the Department and with respect to each military department, the following:
(1)
Assignment coordination and support for military families with special needs, including a systematic process for evaluating each military department’s program for the support of military families with special needs.
(2)
The reassignment of military families with special needs, including how often members request reassignments, for what reasons, and from what military installations.
(3)
The level of satisfaction of military families with special needs with the family and medical support they are provided.
.
573.
Procedures of the Office of Special Needs for the development of individualized services plans for military families with special needs
Section 1781c(d)(4) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 572(3)(C) of this Act, is further amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (F), by striking
of an individualized services plan (medical and educational)
and inserting
by an appropriate office of an individualized services plan (whether medical, educational, or both)
;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I) as subparagraph (H), (I), and (J), respectively; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new paragraph (G):
(G)
Procedures for the development of an individualized services plan for military family members with special needs who have requested family support services and have a completed family needs assessment.
.
574.
Restatement and clarification of authority to reimburse members for spouse relicensing costs pursuant to a permanent change of station
(a)
In general
Section 453 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Reimbursement of qualifying spouse relicensing costs incident to a member’s permanent change of station or assignment
(1)
From amounts otherwise made available for a fiscal year to provide travel and transportation allowances under this chapter, the Secretary concerned may reimburse a member of the armed forces for qualified relicensing costs of the spouse of the member when—
(A)
the member is reassigned, either as a permanent change of station or permanent change of assignment, between duty stations located in separate jurisdictions with unique licensing or certification requirements and authorities; and
(B)
the movement of the member’s dependents is authorized at the expense of the United States under this section as part of the reassignment.
(2)
Reimbursement provided to a member under this subsection may not exceed $1000 in connection with each reassignment described in paragraph (1).
(3)
No reimbursement may be provided under this subsection for qualified relicensing costs paid or incurred after December 31, 2024.
(4)
In this subsection, the term
qualified relicensing costs
means costs, including exam, continuing education courses, and registration fees, incurred by the spouse of a member if—
(A)
the spouse was licensed or certified in a profession during the member’s previous duty assignment and requires a new license or certification to engage in that profession in a new jurisdiction because of movement described in paragraph (1)(B) in connection with the member’s change in duty location pursuant to reassignment described in paragraph (1)(A); and
(B)
the costs were incurred or paid to secure or maintain the license or certification from the new jurisdiction in connection with such reassignment.
.
(b)
Repeal of superseded authority
Section 476 of such title is amended by striking subsection (p).
575.
Improvements to Department of Defense tracking of and response to incidents of child abuse involving military dependents on military installations
(a)
Improvements required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall, consistent with recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States in Government Accountability Office report GA0–20–110, take actions in accordance with this section in order to improve the efforts of the Department of Defense to track and respond to incidents of child abuse involving dependents of members of the Armed Forces that occur on military installations (in this section referred to as
covered incidents of child abuse
).
(2)
Child abuse
For purposes of this section, child abuse includes any abuse of a child, including sexual abuse, emotional abuse, and neglect.
(b)
Data collection and tracking of incidents of child abuse
(1)
Tracking of non-caregiver abuse
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a process for the Department of Defense Family Advocacy Program to track reported covered incidents of child abuse in which the alleged offender is not a parent, guardian, or someone in a caregiving role at the time of the incident. The information so tracked shall comport with the information tracked by the Department of Defense in reported covered incidents of child abuse in which the alleged offender is a parent, guardian, or someone in a caregiving role at the time of the incident.
(2)
Centralized database for tracking of incidents
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall develop and maintain in the Department of Defense a centralized database to track information across the Department on all covered incidents of child abuse that are reported to the Family Advocacy Program or investigated by a military criminal investigation organization, regardless of whether the alleged offender was another child, an adult, or someone in a non-caregiving role at the time of an incident.
(B)
Elements
The centralized database required by this paragraph shall include, for each incident within the database, the following:
(i)
Information pertinent to a determination by the Family Advocacy Program whether such incident meets the criteria of the Department for treatment as an incident of child abuse.
(ii)
The results of any investigation of such incident by a military criminal investigation organization.
(iii)
Information on the ultimate disposition of the incident, if any, including any administrative or prosecutorial action taken.
(C)
Annual reports on information
The information collected and maintained in the centralized database shall be reported on an annual basis as part of the annual reports from the Family Advocacy Program on child abuse and domestic abuse in the military as required by section 574 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2141).
(D)
Briefings
Not later than March 31, 2021, and every six months thereafter until the centralized database required by this paragraph is fully operational, the Secretary shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the status of the database.
(3)
Department of Defense Education Activity guidance
The Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) shall issue clarifications of its guidance on the incidents of child-on-child abuse that qualify as serious incidents for purposes of requirements for the reporting of such serious incidents by school administrators to Activity leadership.
(c)
Response procedures
(1)
Incident Determination Committee membership
The Department of Defense Family Advocacy Program shall ensure that the voting membership of each Incident Determination Committee on a military installation includes medical personnel with the requisite knowledge and expertise to determine whether a reported covered incident of abuse meets the criteria of the Department of Defense for treatment as child abuse.
(2)
Screening reported incidents of child abuse
(A)
Development of standardized process
The Department of Defense Family Advocacy Program shall develop a standardized process by which the Family Advocacy Programs of the military departments screen reported covered incidents of child abuse to determine whether to present such incident to an Incident Determination Committee.
(B)
Monitoring
The Secretary of each military department shall develop a process to monitor the manner in which reported covered incidents of child abuse are screened by each installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in order to ensure that such screening complies with the standardized screening process developed pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(3)
Required notifications
(A)
Documentation
The Secretary of each military department shall require that installation Family Advocacy Programs and military criminal investigation organizations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary document in their respective databases the date on which they notified the other of a reported covered incident of child abuse.
(B)
Oversight
The Secretary of each military department shall require that the Family Advocacy Program of such military department, and the headquarters of the military criminal investigation organizations of such military department, to develop processes to oversee the documentation of notifications required by subparagraph (A) in order to ensure that such notifications occur on a consistent basis at installation level.
(4)
Certified pediatric sexual assault forensic examiners
(A)
Geographic regions for examiners
The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall specify geographic regions in which military families reside for purposes of the availability of and access to certified pediatric sexual assault examiners in such regions.
(B)
Availability
The Under Secretary shall ensure that—
(i)
one or more certified pediatric sexual assault examiners are located in each geographic region specified pursuant to subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
examiners so located serve as certified pediatric sexual assault examiners throughout such region, without regard to Armed Force or installation.
(5)
Removal of children from unsafe homes overseas
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, issue policy that clarifies and standardizes across the Armed Forces the circumstances under which a commander may remove a child from a potentially unsafe home at an installation overseas.
(6)
Resource guide for families affected by child abuse
(A)
In general
The Secretary of each military department shall develop and maintain a comprehensive guide on resources available through the Department of Defense and such military department for military families under this jurisdiction of such Secretary who are affected by child abuse.
(B)
Elements
Each guide under this paragraph shall include the following:
(i)
Information on the response processes of the Family Advocacy Programs and military criminal investigation organizations of the military department concerned.
(ii)
Lists of available support services, such as legal, medical, and victim advocacy services, through the Department of Defense and the military department concerned.
(C)
Distribution
A resource guide under this paragraph shall be presented to a military family by an installation Family Advocacy Program and military criminal investigation personnel at the time a covered incident of child abuse involving a child in such family is reported.
(D)
Availability on Internet
A current version of each resource guide under this paragraph shall be available to the public on an Internet website of the military department concerned available to the public.
(d)
Coordination and collaboration with non-military resources
(1)
Coordination with States
The Secretary of Defense shall—
(A)
continue the outreach efforts of the Department of Defense to the States in order to ensure that States are notified when a member of the Armed Forces or a military dependent is involved in a reported incident of child abuse off a military installation; and
(B)
increase efforts at information sharing between the Department and the States on such incidents of child abuse, including entry into memoranda of understanding with State child welfare agencies on information sharing in connection with such incidents.
(2)
Collaboration with National Children’s Alliance
(A)
Memoranda of understanding
The Secretary of each military department shall seek to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the National Children’s Alliance under which—
(i)
the children’s advocacy center services of the Alliance are available to all installations in the continental United States under the jurisdiction of such Secretary; and
(ii)
members of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary are made aware of the nature and availability of such services.
(B)
Participation of certain entities
Each memorandum of understanding under this paragraph shall provide for the appropriate participation of the Family Advocacy Program and military criminal investigation organizations of the military department concerned in activities under such memorandum of understanding.
(C)
Briefing
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each military department shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the status of the development of a memorandum of understanding with the National Children’s Alliance under this paragraph, together with information on which installations, if any, under the jurisdiction of such Secretary have entered into a written agreement with a local children’s advocacy center with respect to child abuse on such installations.
576.
Military child care and child development center matters
(a)
Center fees matters
Section 1793 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
(c)
Liberal issuance of hardship waivers
The regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) shall require that installation commanders issue waivers of fees otherwise established under the regulations for inability to pay (commonly referred to as
hardship waivers
) on a liberal basis in a manner consistent (as specified by the Secretary in such regulations) with ensuring that fees collected pursuant to subsection (a) meet the operating expenses of the child development centers concerned.
(d)
Family discount
In the case of a family with two or more children attending a child development center, the regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) shall require that installations commanders charge a fee for attendance at the center of any child of the family after the first child of the family in amount equal to 85 percent of the amount of the fee otherwise chargeable for the attendance of such child at the center.
.
(b)
Child care fee assistance programs throughout the Armed Forces
(1)
Programs authorized
Each Secretary of a military department may carry out a program for each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary under which a member of the Armed Forces who is obtaining child care services from a civilian child care services provider located off a military installation is paid (subject to any limitation established by such Secretary) a monthly amount equal to the amount, if any, by which—
(A)
the monthly amount charged by such provider for such services; exceeds
(B)
the monthly amount the military department concerned pays or otherwise provides members at such installation for child care services on such installation.
(2)
Model
Any program carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be modeled after the Army Fee Assistance Program, and incorporate such modifications to that Program as the Secretary of the military department concerned considers appropriate.
(3)
Secretary of Defense approval
Any program of an Armed Force under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense.
(c)
Additional actions To obtain qualified child care employees
(1)
In general
Section 1792 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Additional actions To obtain qualified employees
Each Secretary of a military department may, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense, take actions in addition to actions authorized by subsection (c) to provide military child development centers under the jurisdiction of such Secretary with a qualified and stable civilian workforce, including actions as follows:
(1)
Enhanced marketing and recruitment for employment.
(2)
Provision to employees of education-related benefits, including tuition assistance and student loan repayment programs.
(3)
Availability and enhancement of wellness and physical fitness programs for employees.
(4)
Provision of such other competitive benefits as the Secretary of the military department and the Secretary of Defense jointly consider appropriate.
.
(2)
Reports on installations with extreme imbalance between demand for and availability of child care
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a military department shall submit to Congress a report on the military installations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary with an extreme imbalance between demand for child care and availability of child care. Each report shall include, for the military department covered by such report, the following:
(A)
The name of the five installations of the military department experiencing the most extreme imbalance between demand for child care and availability of child care.
(B)
For each installation named pursuant to subparagraph (A), the following:
(i)
An assessment whether civilian employees at child development centers at such installation have rates of pay and benefits that are competitive with other civilian employees on such installation and with the civilian labor pool in the vicinity of such installation.
(ii)
A description and assessment of various incentives to encourage military spouses to become providers under the Family Child Care program at such installation.
(iii)
Such recommendations at the Secretary of the military department concerned considers appropriate to address the imbalance between demand for child care and availability of child care at such installation, including recommendations to enhance the competitiveness of civilian child care positions at such installation with other civilian positions at such installation and the civilian labor pool in the vicinity of such installation.
577.
Expansion of financial assistance under My Career Advancement Account program
Section 580F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(a)
Professional license or certification; Associate’s degree.—
before
The Secretary
;
(2)
by inserting
or maintenance (including continuing education courses)
after
pursuit
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
National testing
Financial assistance under subsection (a) may be applied to the costs of national tests that may earn a participating military spouse course credits required for a degree approved under the program (including the College Level Examination Program tests).
.
H
Other Matters
586.
Removal of personally identifying and other information of certain persons from investigative reports, the Department of Defense Central Index of Investigations, and other records and databases
(a)
Policy and process required
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a policy and process through which any covered person may request that the person’s name, personally identifying information, and other information pertaining to the person shall, in accordance with subsection (c), be corrected in, or expunged or otherwise removed from, the following:
(1)
A law enforcement or criminal investigative report of the Department of Defense or any component of the Department.
(2)
An index item or entry in the Department of Defense Central Index of Investigations (DCII).
(3)
Any other record maintained in connection with a report described in paragraph (1), or an index item or entry described in paragraph (2), in any system of records, records database, records center, or repository maintained by or on behalf of the Department.
(b)
Covered persons
For purposes of this section, a covered person is any person whose name was placed or reported, or is maintained—
(1)
in the subject or title block of a law enforcement or criminal investigative report of the Department of Defense (or any component of the Department);
(2)
as an item or entry in the Department of Defense Central Index of Investigations; or
(3)
in any other record maintained in connection with a report described in paragraph (1), or an index item or entry described in paragraph (2), in any system of records, records database, records center, or repository maintained by or on behalf of the Department.
(c)
Elements
The policy and process required by subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
Basis for correction or expungement
That the name, personally identifying information, and other information of a covered person shall be corrected in, or expunged or otherwise removed from, a report, item or entry, or record described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) in the following circumstances:
(A)
Probable cause did not or does not exist to believe that the offense for which the person’s name was placed or reported, or is maintained, in such report, item or entry, or record occurred, or insufficient evidence existed or exists to determine whether or not such offense occurred.
(B)
Probable cause did not or does not exist to believe that the person actually committed the offense for which the person’s name was so placed or reported, or is so maintained, or insufficient evidence existed or exists to determine whether or not the person actually committed such offense.
(C)
Such other circumstances, or on such other bases, as the Secretary may specify in establishing the policy and process, which circumstances and bases may not be inconsistent with the circumstances and bases provided by subparagraphs (A) and (B).
(2)
Considerations
While not dispositive as to the existence of a circumstance or basis set forth in paragraph (1), the following shall be considered in the determination whether such circumstance or basis applies to a covered person for purposes of this section:
(A)
The extent or lack of corroborating evidence against the covered person concerned with respect to the offense at issue.
(B)
Whether adverse administrative, disciplinary, judicial, or other such action was initiated against the covered person for the offense at issue.
(C)
The type, nature, and outcome of any action described in subparagraph (B) against the covered person.
(3)
Procedures
The policy and process required by subsection (a) shall include procedures as follows:
(A)
Procedures under which a covered person may appeal a determination of the applicable component of the Department of Defense denying, whether in whole or in part, a request for purposes of subsection (a).
(B)
Procedures under which the applicable component of the Department will correct, expunge or remove, take other appropriate action on, or assist a covered person in so doing, any record maintained by a person, organization, or entity outside of the Department to which such component provided, submitted, or transmitted information about the covered person, which information has or will be corrected in, or expunged or removed from, Department records pursuant to this section.
(C)
The timeline pursuant to which the Department, or a component of the Department, as applicable, will respond to each of the following:
(i)
A request pursuant to subsection (a).
(ii)
An appeal under the procedures required by subparagraph (A).
(iii)
A request for assistance under the procedures required by subparagraph (B).
(D)
Mechanisms through which the Department will keep a covered person apprised of the progress of the Department on a covered person's request or appeal as described in subparagraph (C).
(d)
Applicability
The policy and process required to be developed by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall not be subject to the notice and comment rulemaking requirements under section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
(e)
Report
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the actions taken to carry out this section, including a comprehensive description of the policy and process developed and implemented by the Secretary under subsection (a).
587.
National emergency exception for timing requirements with respect to certain surveys of members of the Armed Forces
(a)
Members of regular and reserve components
Subsection (d) of section 481 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(d)
When surveys required
(1)
The Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys of the Active Duty and the Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations Survey of the Reserve Components shall each be conducted once every two years. The surveys may be conducted within the same year or in two separate years, and shall be conducted in a manner designed to reduce the burden of the surveys on members of the armed forces.
(2)
The two Armed Forces Workplace and Equal Opportunity Surveys shall be conducted at least once every four years. The surveys may be conducted within the same year or in two separate years, and shall be conducted in a manner designed to reduce the burden of the surveys on members of the armed forces.
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of a survey under this section if the Secretary determines that conducting such survey is not practicable due to a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
(B)
The Secretary shall ensure that a survey postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
(C)
The Secretary shall notify Congress of a determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
.
(b)
Cadets and midshipmen
(1)
United States Military Academy
Section 7461(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
(B)
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
(C)
The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
.
(2)
United States Naval Academy
Section 8480(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
(B)
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
(C)
The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
.
(3)
United States Air Force Academy
Section 9461(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(3)
(A)
The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
(B)
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
(C)
The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
.
(c)
Department of Defense civilian employees
Section 481a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Postponement
(1)
The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of a survey under this section if the Secretary determines that conducting such survey is not practicable due to a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
(2)
The Secretary shall ensure that a survey postponed under paragraph (1) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
The Secretary shall notify Congress of a determination under paragraph (1) not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
.
588.
Sunset and transfer of functions of the Physical Disability Board of Review
Section 1554a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Sunset
(1)
On or after October 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense may sunset the Physical Disability Board of Review under this section.
(2)
If the Secretary sunsets the Physical Disability Board of Review under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transfer any remaining requests for review pending at that time, and shall assign any new requests for review under this section, to a board for the correction of military records operated by the Secretary concerned under section 1552 of this title..
(3)
Subsection (c)(4) shall not apply with respect to any review conducted by a board for the correction of military records under paragraph (2).
.
589.
Extension of reporting deadline for the annual report on the assessment of the effectiveness of activities of the federal voting assistance program
(a)
Elimination of reports for non-election years
Section 105A(b) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (
52 U.S.C. 20308(b)
) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(1)
by striking
March 31 of each year
and inserting
September 30 of each odd-numbered year
; and
(2)
by striking
the following information
and inserting
the following information with respect to the Federal elections held during the preceding calendar year
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Subsection (b) of section 105A of such Act (
52 U.S.C. 20308(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Annual report
and inserting
Biennial report
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking
In the case of
and all that follows through
a description
and inserting
A description
.
590.
Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to State governments and National Guards of other States of cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents
(a)
Pilot programs authorized
The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air Force may each, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, conduct a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of the development of a capability within the National Guard through which a National Guard of a State remotely provides State governments and National Guards of other States (whether or not in the same Armed Force as the providing National Guard) with cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents. If such Secretary elects to conduct such a pilot program, such Secretary shall be known as an
administering Secretary
for purposes of this section, and any reference in this section to
the pilot program
shall be treated as a reference to the pilot program conducted by such Secretary.
(b)
Assessment prior to commencement
For purposes of evaluating existing platforms, technologies, and capabilities under subsection (c), and for establishing eligibility and participation requirements under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot program, an administering Secretary, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing the pilot program—
(1)
conduct an assessment of—
(A)
existing cyber response capacities of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard, as applicable, in each State; and
(B)
any existing platform, technology, or capability of a National Guard that provides the capability described in subsection (a); and
(2)
determine whether a platform, technology, or capability described in paragraph (1)(B) is suitable for expansion for purposes of the pilot program.
(c)
Elements
A pilot program under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A technical capability that enables the National Guard of a State to remotely provide cybersecurity technical assistance to State governments and National Guards of other States, without the need to deploy outside its home State.
(2)
Policies, processes, procedures, and authorities for use of such a capability, including with respect to the following:
(A)
The roles and responsibilities of both requesting and deploying State governments and National Guards with respect to such technical assistance, taking into account the matters specified in subsection (f).
(B)
Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber Incident Coordinating Procedure, or any other applicable Department of Defense instruction, for purposes of implementing the capability.
(C)
Program management and governance structures for deployment and maintenance of the capability.
(D)
Security when performing remote support, including such in matters such as authentication and remote sensing.
(3)
The conduct, in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, other Federal agencies, and appropriate non-Federal entities, of at least one exercise to demonstrate the capability, which exercise shall include the following:
(A)
Participation of not fewer than two State governments and their National Guards.
(B)
Circumstances designed to test and validate the policies, processes, procedures, and authorities developed pursuant to paragraph (2).
(C)
An after action review of the exercise.
(d)
Use of existing technology
An administering Secretary may use an existing platform, technology, or capability to provide the capability described in subsection (a) under the pilot program.
(e)
Eligibility and participation requirements
An administering Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, establish requirements with respect to eligibility and participation of State governments and their National Guards in the pilot program.
(f)
Construction with certain current authorities
(1)
Command authorities
Nothing in a pilot program under subsection (a) may be construed as affecting or altering the command authorities otherwise applicable to any unit of the National Guard unit participating in the pilot program.
(2)
Emergency management assistance compact
Nothing in a pilot program may be construed as affecting or altering any current agreement under the Emergency Management Assistance Compact, or any other State agreements, or as determinative of the future content of any such agreement.
(g)
Evaluation metrics
An administering Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security, establish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program.
(h)
Term
A pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
(i)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the commencement of the pilot program, the administering Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a description of the pilot program and such other matters in connection with the pilot program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the termination of the pilot program, the administering Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the pilot program, including any partnerships entered into by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau under the pilot program.
(B)
A summary of the assessment performed prior to the commencement of the pilot program in accordance with subsection (b).
(C)
A summary of the evaluation metrics established in accordance with subsection (g).
(D)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot program, and of the capability described in subsection (a) under the pilot program.
(E)
A description of costs associated with the implementation and conduct of the pilot program.
(F)
A recommendation as to the termination or extension of the pilot program, or the making of the pilot program permanent with an expansion nationwide.
(G)
An estimate of the costs of making the pilot program permanent and expanding it nationwide in accordance with the recommendation in subparagraph (F).
(H)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program.
(3)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(j)
State defined
In this section, the term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
591.
Plan on performance of funeral honors details by members of other Armed Forces when members of the Armed Force of the deceased are unavailable
(a)
Briefing on plan
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives setting forth a plan for the performance of a funeral honors detail at the funeral of a deceased member of the Armed Forces by one or more members of the Armed Forces from an Armed Force other than that of the deceased when—
(A)
members of the Armed Force of the deceased are unavailable for the performance of the detail; and
(B)
the performance of the detail by members of other Armed Forces is requested by the family of the deceased.
(2)
Repeal of requirement for one member of Armed Force of deceased in detail
Section 1491(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the first sentence by striking
, at least one of whom shall be a member of the armed force of which the veteran was a member
.
(3)
Performance
The plan required by paragraph (1) shall authorize the performance of funeral honors details by members of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard under section 115 of title 32, United States Code, and may authorize the remainder of such details to consist of members of veterans organizations or other organizations approved for purposes of section 1491 of title 10, United States Code, as provided for by subsection (b)(2) of such section 1491.
(b)
Elements
The briefing under subsection (a) shall include a description in detail the authorities and requirements for the implementation of the plan, including administrative, logistical, coordination, and funding authorities and requirements.
592.
Limitation on implementation of Army Combat Fitness Test
The Secretary of the Army may not implement the Army Combat Fitness Test until the Secretary receives results of a study, conducted for purposes of this section by an entity independent of the Department of Defense, on the following:
(1)
The extent, if any, to which the test would adversely impact members of the Army stationed or deployed to climates or areas with conditions that make prohibitive the conduct of outdoor physical training on a frequent or sustained basis.
(2)
The extent, if any, to which the test would affect recruitment and retention in critical support military occupational specialties (MOS) of the Army, such as medical personnel.
593.
Report on impact of children of certain Filipino World War II veterans on national security, foreign policy, and economic and humanitarian interests of the United States
(a)
In general
Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the impact of the children of certain Filipino World War II veterans on the national security, foreign policy, and economic and humanitarian interests of the United States.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The number of Filipino World War II veterans who fought under the United States flag during World War II to protect and defend the United States in the Pacific theater.
(2)
The number of Filipino World War II veterans who died fighting under the United States flag during World War II to protect and defend the United States in the Pacific theater.
(3)
An assessment of the economic and tax contributions that Filipino World War II veterans and their families have made to the United States.
(4)
An assessment of the impact on the United States of exempting from the numerical limitations on immigrant visas the children of the Filipino World War II veterans who were naturalized under—
(A)
section 405 of the Immigration Act of 1990 (
Public Law 101–649
;
8 U.S.C. 1440
note); or
(B)
title III of the Nationality Act of 1940 (54 Stat. 1137; chapter 876), as added by section 1001 of the Second War Powers Act, 1942 (56 Stat. 182; chapter 199).
VI
Compensation and Other Personnel Benefits
A
Pay and Allowances
601.
Reorganization of certain allowances other than travel and transportation allowances
(a)
Per diem for duty outside the continental United States
(1)
Transfer to chapter 7
Section 475 of title 37, United States Code, is transferred to chapter 7 of such title, inserted after section 403b, and redesignated as section 405.
(2)
Repeal of termination provision
Section 405 of title 37, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), is amended by striking subsection (f).
(3)
Retitling of authority
The heading of section 405 of title 37, United States Code, as so added, is amended to read as follows:
405.
Per diem while on duty outside the continental United States
.
(b)
Allowance for funeral honors duty
(1)
Transfer to chapter 7
Section 495 of title 37, United States Code, is transferred to chapter 7 of such title, inserted after section 433a, and redesignated as section 435.
(2)
Repeal of termination provision
Section 435 of title 37, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), is amended by striking subsection (c).
(c)
Clerical amendments
(1)
Chapter 7
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 of such title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by inserting after the item relating to section 403b the following new item:
405. Per diem while on duty outside the continental United States.
;
and
(B)
by inserting after the item relating to section 433a the following new item:
435. Funeral honors duty: allowance.
.
(2)
Chapter 8
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 8 of such title is amended by striking the items relating to sections 475 and 495.
602.
Hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces performing duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the military department concerned shall pay hazardous duty pay under this section to a member of a regular or reserve component of the Armed Forces who—
(1)
performs duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19); and
(2)
is entitled to basic pay under section 204 of title 37, United States Code, or compensation under section 206 of such title, for the performance of such duty.
(b)
Regulations
Hazardous duty pay shall be payable under this section in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. Such regulations shall specify the duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 qualifying a member for payment of such pay under this section.
(c)
Amount
The amount of hazardous duty pay paid a member under this section shall be such amount per month, not less than $150 per month, as the Secretary of Defense shall specify in the regulations under subsection (b).
(d)
Monthly payment; no proration
(1)
Monthly payment
Hazardous duty pay under this section shall be paid on a monthly basis.
(2)
No proration
Hazardous duty pay is payable to a member under this section for a month if the member performs any duty in that month qualifying the person for payment of such pay.
(e)
Months for which payable
Hazardous duty pay is payable under this section for qualifying duty performed in months occurring during the period—
(1)
beginning on January 1, 2020; and
(2)
ending on December 31, 2020.
(f)
Construction with other pay
Hazardous duty pay payable to a member under this section is in addition to the following:
(1)
Any other pay and allowances to which the member is entitled by law.
(2)
Any other hazardous duty pay to which the member is entitled under section 351 of title 37, United States Code (or any other provision of law), for duty that also constitutes qualifying duty for payment of such pay under this section.
(g)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of Defense should also authorize hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces not under orders specific to the response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 who provide—
(1)
healthcare in a military medical treatment facility for individuals infected with the Coronavirus Disease 2019; or
(2)
technical or administrative support for the provision of healthcare as described in paragraph (1).
603.
Compensation and credit for retired pay purposes for maternity leave taken by members of the reserve components
(a)
Compensation
Section 206(a) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
for each of 6 days in connection with the taking by the member of a period of maternity leave.
.
(b)
Credit for retired pay purposes
(1)
In general
The period of maternity leave taken by a member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces in connection with the birth of a child shall count toward the member's entitlement to retired pay, and in connection with the years of service used in computing retired pay, under
chapter 1223
of title 10, United States Code, as 12 points.
(2)
Separate credit for each period of leave
Separate crediting of points shall accrue to a member pursuant to this subsection for each period of maternity leave taken by the member in connection with a childbirth event.
(3)
When credited
Points credited a member for a period of maternity leave pursuant to this subsection shall be credited in the year in which the period of maternity leave concerned commences.
(4)
Contribution of leave toward entitlement to retired pay
Section 12732(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
(F)
Points at the rate of 12 a year for the taking of maternity leave.
.
(5)
Computation of years of service for retired pay
Section 12733 of such title is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
One day for each point credited to the person under subparagraph (F) of section 12732(a)(2) of this title.
.
(c)
Effective date
This section and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to periods of maternity leave that commence on or after that date.
B
Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays
611.
One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay authorities
(a)
Authorities relating To reserve forces
Section 910(g) of title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
(b)
Title 10 authorities relating to health care professionals
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
:
(1)
Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate accession program.
(2)
Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
(c)
Authorities relating to nuclear officers
Section 333(i) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
(d)
Authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus authorities
The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
:
(1)
Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for enlisted members.
(2)
Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for officers.
(3)
Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for officers.
(4)
Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for officers in health professions.
(5)
Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
(6)
Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
(7)
Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty pay.
(8)
Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or proficiency bonus.
(9)
Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high priority units.
(e)
Authority to provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for housing
Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
612.
Increase in special and incentive pays for officers in health professions
(a)
Accession bonus generally
Subparagraph (A) of section 335(e)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
$30,000
and inserting
$100,000
.
(b)
Accession bonus for critically short wartime specialties
Subparagraph (B) of such section is amended by striking
$100,000
and inserting
$200,000
.
(c)
Retention bonus
Subparagraph (C) of such section is amended by striking
$75,000
and inserting
$150,000
.
(d)
Incentive pay
Subparagraph (D) of such section is amended—
(1)
in clause (i), by striking
$100,000
and inserting
$200,000
; and
(2)
in clause (ii), by striking
$15,000
and inserting
$50,000
.
(e)
Board certification pay
Subparagraph (E) of such section is amended by striking
$6,000
and inserting
$15,000
.
(f)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2020, and shall apply with respect to special bonus and incentive pays payable under section 335 of title 37, United States Code, pursuant to agreements entered into under that section on or after that date.
C
Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits
621.
Inclusion of drill or training foregone due to emergency travel or duty restrictions in computations of entitlement to and amounts of retired pay for non-regular service
(a)
Entitlement to retired pay
Section 12732(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
(F)
(i)
Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to matters concerning the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, one point for each day of active service or one point for each drill or period of equivalent instruction that was prescribed by the Secretary concerned to be performed during the covered emergency period, if such person was prevented from performing such duty due to travel or duty restrictions imposed by the President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard.
(ii)
A person may not be credited more than 35 points in a one-year period under this subparagraph.
(iii)
In this subparagraph, the term
covered emergency period
means the period beginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on the day that is 60 days after the date on which the travel or duty restriction applicable to the person concerned is lifted.
; and
(2)
in the matter following subparagraph (F), as inserted by paragraph (1), by striking
and (E)
and inserting
(E), and (F)
.
(b)
Amount of retired pay
Section 12733(3) of such title is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
or (D)
and inserting
(D), or (F)
.
622.
Modernization and clarification of payment of certain Reserves while on duty
(a)
Change in priority of payments for retired or retainer pay
Subsection (a) of section 12316 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
subsection (b)
and inserting
subsection (c)
; and
(B)
by striking
his earlier military service
and inserting
the Reserve's earlier military service
;
(C)
by striking
a pension, retired or retainer pay, or disability compensation
and inserting
retired or retainer pay
; and
(D)
by striking
he is entitled
and inserting
the Reserve is entitled
; and
(2)
by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
(1)
the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that the Reserve is performing; or
(2)
if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, the retired or retainer pay to which the Reserve is entitled because of the Reserve's earlier military service.
.
(b)
Payments for pension or disability compensation
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Except as provided by subsection (c), a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of the Reserve's earlier military service is entitled to a pension or disability compensation, and who performs duty for which the Reserve is entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty either—
(1)
the pension or disability compensation to which the Reserve is entitled because of the Reserve's earlier military service; or
(2)
if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that the Reserve is performing.
.
(c)
Additional conforming and modernizing amendments
Subsection (c) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
by striking
(a)(2)
both places it appears and inserting
(a)(1) or (b)(2), as applicable,
;
(2)
by striking
his earlier military service
the first place it appears and inserting
a Reserve's earlier military service
;
(3)
by striking
his earlier military service
each other place it appears and inserting
the Reserve's earlier military service
;
(4)
by striking
he is entitled
and inserting
the Reserve is entitled
; and
(5)
by striking
the member or his dependents
and inserting
the Reserve or the Reserve's dependents
.
(d)
Procedures
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under which a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard may waive the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty the Reserve is performing under subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
623.
Relief of Richard W. Collins III
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
On May 20, 2017, Lieutenant Richard W. Collins III was murdered on the campus of the University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(2)
At the time of his murder, Lieutenant Collins had graduated from the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Bowie State University and received a commission in the United States Army.
(3)
At the time of the murder of Lieutenant Collins, a graduate of a Reserve Officers’ Training Corps who received a commission but died before receiving a first duty assignment was not eligible for a death gratuity under section 1475(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, or for casualty assistance under section 633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
10 U.S.C. 1475
note).
(4)
Section 623 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) amended section 1475 of title 10, United States Code, to authorize the payment of a death gratuity to a graduate of the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (SROTC) who receives a commission but dies before receiving a first duty assignment.
(5)
Section 625 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 authorizes the families of Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps graduates to receive casualty assistance in the event of the death of such graduates.
(6)
Sections 623 and 625 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 apply only to a Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps graduate who receives a commission but dies before receiving a first duty assignment on or after the date of the enactment of that Act.
(7)
The death of Lieutenant Collins played a critical role in changing the eligibility criteria for the death gratuity for Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps graduates who die prior to their first assignment.
(b)
Applicability of laws
(1)
Death gratuity
Section 623 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), and the amendment made by that section, shall apply to Lieutenant Richard W. Collins III as if his death had occurred after the date of the enactment of that section.
(2)
Casualty assistance
Section 625 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and the amendment made by that section, shall apply to Lieutenant Richard W. Collins III as if his death had occurred after the date of the enactment of that section.
(c)
Limitation
No amount exceeding 10 percent of a payment made under subsection (b)(1) may be paid to or received by any attorney or agent for services rendered in connection with the payment. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to a fine in the amount provided under title 18, United States Code.
D
Other Matters
631.
Permanent authority for and enhancement of the Government lodging program
(a)
Permanent authority
Section 914 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
5 U.S.C. 5911
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
, for the period of time described in subsection (b),
; and
(2)
by striking subsection (b).
(b)
Exclusion of certain shipyard employees
Such section is further amended by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Exclusion of certain shipyard employees
In carrying out a Government lodging program under the authority in subsection (a), the Secretary shall exclude from the requirements of the program employees who are traveling for the performance of mission functions of a public shipyard of the Department if the purpose or mission of such travel would be adversely affected by the requirements of the program.
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
914.
Government lodging program
.
632.
Approval of certain activities by retired and reserve members of the uniformed services
(a)
Clarification of activities for which approval required
Section 908 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i)
by striking
subsection (b)
and inserting
subsections (b) and (c)
; and
(ii)
by inserting
, accepting payment for speeches, travel, meals, lodging, or registration fees, or accepting a non-cash award,
after
that employment)
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
armed forces
and inserting
armed forces, except members serving on active duty under a call or order to active duty for a period in excess of 30 days
;
(2)
in the heading of subsection (b), by inserting
for employment and compensation
after
Approval required
;
(3)
by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
(4)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Approval required for certain payments and awards
A person described in subsection (a) may accept payment for speeches, travel, meals, lodging, or registration fees described in that subsection, or accept a non-cash award described in that subsection, only if the Secretary concerned approves the payment or award.
.
(b)
Annual reports on approvals
Subsection (d) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(3) of this section, is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
Not later than
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection, by inserting
, and each approval under subsection (c) for a payment or award described in subsection (a),
after
in subsection (a)
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
The report under paragraph (1) on an approval described in that paragraph with respect to an officer shall set forth the following:
(A)
The foreign government providing the employment or compensation or payment or award.
(B)
The duties, if any, to be performed in connection with the employment or compensation or payment or award.
(C)
The total amount of compensation, if any, or payment to be provided.
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Section heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
908.
Reserves and retired members: acceptance of employment, payments, and awards from foreign governments
.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 908 and inserting the following new item:
908. Reserves and retired members: acceptance of employment, payments, and awards from foreign governments.
.
VII
Health care provisions
A
TRICARE and other health care benefits
701.
Authority for Secretary of Defense to manage provider type referral and supervision requirements under TRICARE program
Section 1079(a)(12) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the first sentence, by striking
or certified clinical social worker,
and inserting
certified clinical social worker, or other class of provider as designated by the Secretary of Defense,
.
702.
Removal of Christian Science providers as authorized providers under the TRICARE program
(a)
Repeal
Subsection (a) of section 1079 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4).
(b)
Conforming amendment
Paragraph (12) of such subsection is amended, in the first sentence, by striking
, except as authorized in paragraph (4)
.
703.
Waiver of fees charged to certain civilians for emergency medical treatment provided at military medical treatment facilities
Section 1079b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Waiver of fees
Under the procedures implemented under subsection (a), a military medical treatment facility may waive a fee charged under such procedures to a civilian who is not a covered beneficiary if—
(1)
after insurance payments, if any, the civilian is not able to pay for the trauma or other medical care provided to the civilian; and
(2)
the provision of such care enhanced the medical readiness of the health care provider or health care providers furnishing such care.
.
704.
Mental health resources for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents during the COVID–19 pandemic
(a)
Plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to protect and promote the mental health and well-being of members of the Armed Forces and their dependents, which shall include the following:
(1)
A strategy to combat existing stigma surrounding mental health conditions that might deter such individuals from seeking care.
(2)
Guidance to commanding officers at all levels on the mental health ramifications of the COVID–19 crisis.
(3)
Additional training and support for mental health care professionals of the Department of Defense on supporting individuals who are concerned for the health of themselves and their family members, or grieving the loss of loved ones due to COVID–19.
(4)
A strategy to leverage telemedicine to ensure safe access to mental health services.
(b)
Outreach
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct outreach to the military community to identify resources and health care services, including mental health care services, available under the TRICARE program to support members of the Armed Forces and their dependents.
(c)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
dependent
and
TRICARE program
have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of such title.
705.
Transitional health benefits for certain members of the National Guard serving under orders in response to the coronavirus (COVID–19)
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall provide to a member of the National Guard separating from active service after serving on full-time National Guard duty pursuant to section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, the health benefits authorized under section 1145 of title 10, United States Code, for a member of a reserve component separating from active duty, as referred to in subsection (a)(2)(B) of such section 1145, if the active service from which the member of the National Guard is separating was in support of the whole of government response to the coronavirus (COVID–19).
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
active duty
,
active service
, and
full-time National Guard duty
have the meanings given those terms in section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code.
706.
Extramedical maternal health providers demonstration project
(a)
Demonstration project required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence the conduct of a demonstration project designed to evaluate the cost, quality of care, and impact on maternal and fetal outcomes of using extramedical maternal health providers under the TRICARE program to determine the appropriateness of making coverage of such providers under the TRICARE program permanent.
(b)
Elements of demonstration project
The demonstration project under subsection (a) shall include, for participants in the demonstration project, the following:
(1)
Access to doulas.
(2)
Access to lactation consultants who are not otherwise authorized to provide services under the TRICARE program.
(c)
Participants
The Secretary shall establish a process under which covered beneficiaries may enroll in the demonstration project in order to receive the services provided under the demonstration project.
(d)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration project for a period of five years beginning on the date on which notification of the commencement of the demonstration project is published in the Federal Register.
(e)
Survey
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the duration of the demonstration project, the Secretary shall administer a survey to determine—
(A)
how many members of the Armed Forces or spouses of such members give birth while their spouse or birthing partner is unable to be present due to deployment, training, or other mission requirements;
(B)
how many single members of the Armed Forces give birth alone; and
(C)
how many members of the Armed Forces or spouses of such members use doula support or lactation consultants.
(2)
Matters covered by the survey
The survey administered under paragraph (1) shall include an identification of the following:
(A)
The race, ethnicity, age, sex, relationship status, military service, military occupation, and rank, as applicable, of each individual surveyed.
(B)
If individuals surveyed were members of the Armed Forces or the spouses of such members, or both.
(C)
The length of advanced notice received by individuals surveyed that the member of the Armed Forces would be unable to be present during the birth, if applicable.
(D)
Any resources or support that the individuals surveyed found useful during the pregnancy and birth process, including doula or lactation counselor support.
(f)
Reports
(1)
Implementation plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a plan to implement the demonstration project.
(2)
Annual report
(A)
In general
Not later than one year after the commencement of the demonstration project, and annually thereafter for the duration of the demonstration project, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the cost of the demonstration project and the effectiveness of the demonstration project in improving quality of care and the maternal and fetal outcomes of covered beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration project.
(B)
Matters covered
Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(i)
The number of covered beneficiaries who are enrolled in the demonstration project.
(ii)
The number of enrolled covered beneficiaries who have participated in the demonstration project.
(iii)
The results of the surveys under subsection (f).
(iv)
The cost of the demonstration project.
(v)
An assessment of the quality of care provided to participants in the demonstration project.
(vi)
An assessment of the impact of the demonstration project on maternal and fetal outcomes.
(vii)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the demonstration project.
(viii)
Recommendations for adjustments to the demonstration project.
(ix)
The estimated costs avoided as a result of improved maternal and fetal health outcomes due to the demonstration project.
(x)
Recommendations for extending the demonstration project or implementing permanent coverage under the TRICARE program of extramedical maternal health providers.
(xi)
An identification of legislative or administrative action necessary to make the demonstration project permanent.
(C)
Final report
The final report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted not later than 90 days after the termination of the demonstration project.
(g)
Expansion of demonstration project
(1)
Regulations
If the Secretary determines that the demonstration project is successful, the Secretary may prescribe regulations to include extramedical maternal health providers as health care providers authorized to provide care under the TRICARE program.
(2)
Credentialing and other requirements
The Secretary may establish credentialing and other requirements for doulas and lactation consultants through public notice and comment rulemaking for purposes of including doulas and lactation consultations as health care providers authorized to provide care under the TRICARE program pursuant to regulations prescribed under paragraph (1).
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Extramedical maternal health provider
The term
extramedical maternal health provider
means a doula or lactation consultant.
(2)
Covered beneficiary; TRICARE program
The terms
covered beneficiary
and
TRICARE program
have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
707.
Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription maintenance medications under TRICARE pharmacy benefits program
(a)
Requirement
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program under which eligible covered beneficiaries may elect to receive non-generic prescription maintenance medications selected under subsection (c) through military treatment facility pharmacies, retail pharmacies, or the national mail-order pharmacy program, notwithstanding section 1074g(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
(b)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program for a three-year period beginning not later than March 1, 2021.
(c)
Selection of medication
The Secretary shall select non-generic prescription maintenance medications described in section 1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of title 10, United States Code, to be covered by the pilot program.
(d)
Use of voluntary rebates
(1)
Requirement
In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall seek to renew and modify contracts described in paragraph (2) in a manner that—
(A)
includes for purposes of the pilot program retail pharmacies as a point of sale for the non-generic prescription maintenance medication covered by the contract; and
(B)
provides the manufacturer with the option to provide voluntary rebates for such medications at retail pharmacies.
(2)
Contracts described
The contracts described in this paragraph are contracts for the procurement of non-generic prescription maintenance medications selected under subsection (c) that are eligible for renewal during the period in which the pilot program is carried out.
(e)
Notification
In providing each eligible covered beneficiary with an explanation of benefits, the Secretary shall notify the beneficiary of whether the medication that the beneficiary is prescribed is covered by the pilot program.
(f)
Briefing and reports
(1)
Briefing
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the implementation of the pilot program.
(2)
Interim report
Not later than 18 months after the commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program.
(3)
Comptroller General report
(A)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2024, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program.
(B)
Elements
The report required by subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
The number of eligible covered beneficiaries who participated in the pilot program and an assessment of the satisfaction of such beneficiaries with the pilot program.
(ii)
The rate by which eligible covered beneficiaries elected to receive non-generic prescription maintenance medications at a retail pharmacy pursuant to the pilot program, and how such rate affected military treatment facility pharmacies and the national mail-order pharmacy program.
(iii)
The amount of cost savings realized by the pilot program, including with respect to—
(I)
dispensing fees incurred at retail pharmacies compared to the national mail-order pharmacy program for brand name prescription drugs;
(II)
administrative fees;
(III)
any costs paid by the United States for the drugs in addition to the procurement costs;
(IV)
the use of military treatment facilities; and
(V)
copayments paid by eligible covered beneficiaries.
(iv)
A comparison of supplemental rebates between retail pharmacies and other points of sale.
(g)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to affect the ability of the Secretary to carry out section 1074g(a)(9)(C) of title 10, United States Code, after the date on which the pilot program is completed.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
eligible covered beneficiary
has the meaning given that term in section 1074g(i) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
The terms
military treatment facility pharmacies
,
retail pharmacies
, and
the national mail-order pharmacy program
mean the methods for receiving prescription drugs as described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, of section 1074g(a)(2)(E) of title 10, United States Code.
B
Health care administration
721.
Modifications to transfer of Army Medical Research and Development Command and public health commands to Defense Health Agency
(a)
Delay of transfer
(1)
In general
Section 1073c(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
September 30, 2022
and inserting
September 30, 2024
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
Section 737 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended, in subsections (a) and (c), by striking
September 30, 2022
and inserting
September 30, 2024
each place it appears.
(b)
Modification To resources preserved
Such section 737 is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
resources
and inserting
infrastructure and personnel
; and
(2)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
resources
and inserting
infrastructure and personnel
; and
(B)
by striking
, which shall include manpower and funding, at not less than the level of such resources
.
(c)
Elimination of transfer of funds
Such section 737 is further amended by—
(1)
striking subsection (b); and
(2)
redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
(d)
Change of name of Command
(1)
Delay of transfer
Section 1073c(e)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
Materiel
and inserting
Development
.
(2)
Preservation of infrastructure and personnel
Section 737 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(A)
in the section heading, by striking
Materiel
and inserting
Development
; and
(B)
by striking
Materiel
each place it appears and inserting
Development
.
(e)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended by striking the item relating to section 737 and inserting the following new item:
Sec. 737. Preservation of infrastructure and personnel of the Army Medical Research and Development Command and continuation as Center of Excellence.
.
722.
Delay of applicability of administration of TRICARE dental plans through Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program
Section 713(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
5 U.S.C. 8951
note) is amended by striking
January 1, 2022
and inserting
January 1, 2023
.
723.
Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements during national emergencies for purposes of provision of health care
(a)
In general
Chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1073d
the following new section:
1073e.
Authority to waive requirements during national emergencies
(a)
Purpose
The purpose of this section is to enable the Secretary of Defense to ensure, to the maximum extent feasible, in an emergency area during an emergency period—
(1)
that sufficient authorized health care items and services are available to meet the needs of covered beneficiaries in such area eligible for the programs under this chapter; and
(2)
that private sector health care providers authorized under the TRICARE program that furnish such authorized items and services in good faith may be reimbursed for such items and services absent any determination of fraud or abuse.
(b)
Authority
(1)
In general
To the extent necessary to accomplish the purpose specified in subsection (a), the Secretary, subject to the provisions of this section, may, for a period of 60 days, waive or modify the application of the requirements of this chapter or any regulation prescribed thereunder with respect to health care items and services furnished by a health care provider (or class of health care providers) in an emergency area (or portion of such area) during an emergency period (or portion of such period), including by deferring the termination of status of a covered beneficiary.
(2)
Renewal
The Secretary may renew a waiver or modification under paragraph (1) for subsequent 60-day periods during the duration of the applicable emergency declaration.
(c)
Implementation
The Secretary may implement any temporary waiver or modification made pursuant to this section by program instruction or otherwise.
(d)
Retroactive application
A waiver or modification made pursuant to this section with respect to an emergency period may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be made retroactive to the beginning of the emergency period or any subsequent date in such period specified by the Secretary.
(e)
Satisfaction of preconditions for status as covered beneficiary
A deferral under subsection (b) of termination of status of a covered beneficiary may be contingent upon retroactive satisfaction by such beneficiary of any premium or enrollment fee payments or other preconditions for such status.
(f)
Certification
(1)
In general
Not later than two days before exercising a waiver or modification under subsection (b)(1) or renewing a waiver or modification under subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a certification and advance written notice regarding the authority to be exercised.
(2)
Matters included
Certification and advanced written notice required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
a description of—
(i)
the specific provisions of law that will be waived or modified;
(ii)
the health care providers to whom the waiver or modification will apply;
(iii)
the geographic area in which the waiver or modification will apply; and
(iv)
the period of time for which the waiver or modification will be in effect; and
(B)
a certification that the waiver or modification is necessary to carry out the purpose specified in subsection (a).
(g)
Termination of waiver
A waiver or modification of requirements pursuant to this section terminates upon the termination of the applicable emergency declaration.
(h)
Report
Not later than one year after the end of an emergency period during which the Secretary exercised the authority under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the approaches used to accomplish the purpose described in subsection (a), including an evaluation of such approaches and recommendations for improved approaches should the need for the exercise of such authority arise in the future.
(i)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Emergency area
The term
emergency area
means a geographical area covered by an emergency declaration.
(2)
Emergency declaration
The term
emergency declaration
means—
(A)
an emergency or disaster declared by the President pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.) or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.); or
(B)
a public health emergency declared pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
).
(3)
Emergency period
The term
emergency period
means the period covered by an emergency declaration.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 55 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1073d the following new item:
1073e. Authority to waive requirements during national emergencies.
.
C
Reports and other matters
741.
Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund
Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2573), as most recently amended by section 732(4)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
September 30, 2021
and inserting
September 30, 2022
.
742.
Membership of Board of Regents of Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences
(a)
In general
Section 2113a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
(3)
the Director of the Defense Health Agency, who shall be an ex officio member;
.
(b)
Rule of construction
The amendments made by this section may not be construed to invalidate any action taken by the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences or its Board of Regents prior to the effective date of this section.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on January 1, 2021.
743.
Military Health System Clinical Quality Management Program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall implement a comprehensive program to be known as the
Military Health System Clinical Quality Management Program
(in this section referred to as the
Program
).
(b)
Elements of program
The Program shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
The implementation of systematic procedures to eliminate, to the maximum extent feasible, risk of harm to patients at military medical treatment facilities, including through identification, investigation, and analysis of events indicating a risk of patient harm and corrective action plans to mitigate such risks.
(2)
With respect to a potentially compensable event (including those involving members of the Armed Forces) at a military medical treatment facility—
(A)
an analysis of such event, which shall occur and be documented as soon as possible after the event;
(B)
use of such analysis for clinical quality management; and
(C)
reporting of such event to the National Practitioner Data Bank in accordance with guidelines of the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (
42 U.S.C. 11101
et seq.), giving special emphasis to the results of external peer reviews of the event.
(3)
Validation of provider credentials and granting of clinical privileges by the Director of the Defense Health Agency for all health care providers at a military medical treatment facility.
(4)
Accreditation of military medical treatment facilities by a recognized external accreditation body.
(5)
Systematic measurement of indicators of health care quality, emphasizing clinical outcome measures, comparison of such indicators with benchmarks from leading health care quality improvement organizations, and transparency with the public of appropriate clinical measurements for military medical treatment facilities.
(6)
Systematic activities emphasized by leadership at all organizational levels to use all elements of the Program to eliminate unwanted variance throughout the health care system of the Department of Defense and make constant improvements in clinical quality.
(7)
A full range of procedures for productive communication between patients and health care providers regarding actual or perceived adverse clinical events at military medical treatment facilities, including procedures—
(A)
for full disclosure of such events (respecting the confidentiality of peer review information under a medical quality assurance program under section 1102 of title 10, United States Code);
(B)
providing an opportunity for the patient to be heard in relation to quality reviews; and
(C)
to resolve patient concerns by independent, neutral healthcare resolution specialists.
(c)
Additional clinical quality management activities
(1)
In general
In addition to the elements of the Program set forth in subsection (b), the Secretary shall establish and maintain clinical quality management activities in relation to functions of the health care system of the Department separate from delivery of health care services in military medical treatment facilities.
(2)
Health care delivery outside military medical treatment facilities
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall maintain policies and procedures to promote clinical quality in health care delivery on ships and planes, in deployed settings, and in all other circumstances not covered by subsection (b), with the objective of implementing standards and procedures comparable, to the extent practicable, to those under such subsection.
(3)
Purchased care system
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall maintain policies and procedures for health care services provided outside the Department but paid for by the Department, reflecting best practices by public and private health care reimbursement and management systems.
(d)
Military medical treatment facility defined
In this section, the term
military medical treatment facility
means any fixed facility or portion thereof of the Department of Defense that is outside of a deployed environment and used primarily for health care.
744.
Modifications to pilot program on civilian and military partnerships to enhance interoperability and medical surge capability and capacity of National Disaster Medical System
Section 740 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
The Secretary of Defense may
and inserting
Beginning not later than September 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall
; and
(B)
by striking
health care organizations, institutions, and entities
and inserting
health care organizations, health care institutions, health care entities, academic medical centers of institutions of higher education, and hospitals
; and
(C)
by striking
in the vicinity of major aeromedical and other transport hubs and logistics centers of the Department of Defense
;
(2)
by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new subsections:
(c)
Lead official for design and implementation of pilot program
(1)
In general
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall be the lead official for design and implementation of the pilot program under subsection (a).
(2)
Resources
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall leverage the resources of the Defense Health Agency for execution of the pilot program under subsection (a) and shall coordinate with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff throughout the planning and duration of the pilot program.
(d)
Locations
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) at not fewer than five locations in the United States that are located at or near locations with established expertise in disaster health preparedness and response and trauma care that augment and enhance the effectiveness of the pilot program.
(2)
Phased selection of locations
(A)
Initial selection
Not later than the earlier of the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act or March 31, 2021, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Transportation, shall select not fewer than two locations at which to carry out the pilot program.
(B)
Subsequent selection
Not later than the end of each one-year period following selection of locations under subparagraph (A), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Transportation, shall select not fewer than two additional locations at which to carry out the pilot program until not fewer than five locations are selected in total.
(3)
Consideration and priority for locations
In selecting locations for the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(A)
consider—
(i)
the proximity of the location to civilian or military transportation hubs, including airports, railways, interstate highways, or ports;
(ii)
the ability of the location to accept a redistribution of casualties during times of war;
(iii)
the ability of the location to provide trauma care training opportunities for medical personnel of the Department of Defense; and
(iv)
the proximity of the location to existing academic medical centers of institutions of higher education, facilities of the Department, or other institutions that have established expertise in the areas of—
(I)
highly infectious disease;
(II)
biocontainment;
(III)
quarantine;
(IV)
trauma care;
(V)
combat casualty care;
(VI)
the National Disaster Medical System under section 2812 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300hh–11
);
(VII)
disaster health preparedness and response;
(VIII)
medical and public health management of biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear hazards; or
(IX)
such other areas of expertise as the Secretary considers appropriate; and
(B)
give priority to public-private partnerships with academic medical centers of institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other entities with facilities that have an established history of providing clinical care, treatment, training, and research in the areas described in subparagraph (A)(ii) or other specializations determined important by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
;
(3)
by redesignating subsections (d) through (f) as subsections (e) through (g), respectively;
(4)
in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (3)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
the commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a)
and inserting
the initial selection of locations for the pilot program under subsection (d)(2)(A)
; and
(ii)
in subparagraph (B)—
(I)
in clause (ii), by striking
subsection (d)
and inserting
subsection (e)
;
(II)
in clause (iii), by striking
subsection (e)
and inserting
subsection (f)
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2)(B)(iv), by striking
the authority for
; and
(5)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Institution of higher education defined
In this section, the term
institution of higher education
means a four-year institution of higher education, as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
.
745.
Study on force mix options and service models to enhance readiness of medical force of the Armed Forces to provide combat casualty care
(a)
Study required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center or other independent entity to perform a study on force mix options and service models (including traditional and nontraditional active and reserve models) to optimize the readiness of the medical force of the Armed Forces to deliver combat care on the battlefield.
(b)
Issues To be addressed
The study required by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum—
(1)
with respect to options relating to members of the Armed Forces on active duty—
(A)
a review of existing models for such members who are medical professionals to support clinical readiness skills by serving in civilian trauma centers;
(B)
an assessment of the extent to which existing models can be optimized, standardized, and scaled to address current readiness shortfalls; and
(C)
an evaluation of the cost and effectiveness of alternative models for such members who are medical professionals to serve in civilian trauma centers; and
(2)
with respect to options relating to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces—
(A)
a review of existing models for such members of the reserve components who are medical professionals to support clinical readiness skills by serving in civilian trauma centers;
(B)
an assessment of the extent to which existing models can be optimized, standardized, and scaled to address current readiness shortfalls; and
(C)
an evaluation of the cost and effectiveness of alternative models for such members of the reserve components who are medical professionals to serve in civilian trauma centers.
(c)
Report
Not later than 15 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the findings and recommendations of the independent study required by subsection (a).
746.
Comptroller General study on delivery of mental health services to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on the delivery of Federal, State, and private mental health services to members of the reserve components.
(b)
Elements
The study conducted under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
identify all programs, coverage, and costs associated with services described in such subsection;
(2)
specify gaps or barriers to access that could result in delayed or insufficient mental health care support to members of the reserve components.
(3)
evaluate the mental health screening requirements for members of the reserve components immediately before, during, and after—
(A)
Federal deployment under title 10, United States Code; or
(B)
State deployment under title 32, United States Code; and
(4)
provide recommendations when practicable to strengthen the reintegration of members of the reserve components, including an assessment of the effectiveness of making programming mandatory.
(c)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the study conducted under subsection (a).
(d)
Reserve component defined
In this section, the term
reserve component
means a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code.
747.
Review and report on prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at remote installations outside the contiguous United States
(a)
Review required
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of efforts by the Department of Defense to prevent suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations.
(b)
Elements of review
The review conducted under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of each of the following:
(1)
Current policy guidelines of the Armed Forces on the prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations.
(2)
Current suicide prevention programs of the Armed Forces and activities for members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents, including programs provided by the Defense Health Program and the Office of Suicide Prevention.
(3)
The integration of mental health screenings and suicide risk and prevention efforts for members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents into the delivery of primary care for such members and dependents.
(4)
The standards for responding to attempted or completed suicides among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents, including guidance and training to assist commanders in addressing incidents of attempted or completed suicide within their units.
(5)
The standards regarding data collection for members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents, including related factors such as domestic violence and child abuse.
(6)
The means to ensure the protection of privacy of members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents who seek or receive treatment related to suicide prevention.
(7)
The availability of information from indigenous populations on suicide prevention for members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations who are members of such a population.
(8)
The availability of information from graduate research programs of institutions of higher education on suicide prevention for members of the Armed Forces.
(9)
Such other matters as the Comptroller General considers appropriate in connection with the prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their dependents.
(c)
Briefing and report
The Comptroller General shall—
(1)
not later than October 1, 2021, brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on preliminary observations relating to the review conducted under subsection (a); and
(2)
not later than March 1, 2022, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the results of such review.
(d)
Covered installation defined
In this section, the term
covered installation
means a remote installation of the Department of Defense outside the contiguous United States.
748.
Audit of medical conditions of tenants in privatized military housing
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall commence the conduct of an audit of the medical conditions of eligible individuals and the association between adverse exposures of such individuals in unsafe or unhealthy housing units and the health of such individuals.
(b)
Content of audit
The audit conducted under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
determine the percentage of units of privatized military housing that are unsafe or unhealthy housing units;
(2)
study the adverse exposures of eligible individuals that relate to residing in an unsafe or unhealthy housing unit and the effect of such exposures on the health of such individuals; and
(3)
determine the association, to the extent permitted by available scientific data, and provide quantifiable data on such association, between such adverse exposures and the occurrence of a medical condition in eligible individuals residing in unsafe or unhealthy housing units.
(c)
Conduct of audit
The Inspector General of the Department shall conduct the audit under subsection (a) using the same privacy preserving guidelines used by the Inspector General in conducting other audits of health records.
(d)
Source of data
In conducting the audit under subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Department shall use—
(1)
de-identified data from electronic health records of the Department;
(2)
records of claims under the TRICARE program (as defined in section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code); and
(3)
such other data as determined necessary by the Inspector General.
(e)
Submittal and public availability of report
Not later than one year after the commencement of the audit under subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Department shall—
(1)
submit to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of the audit conducted under subsection (a); and
(2)
publish such report on a publicly available internet website of the Department of Defense.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible individual
The term
eligible individual
means a member of the Armed Forces or a family member of a member of the Armed Forces who has resided in an unsafe or unhealthy housing unit.
(2)
Privatized military housing
The term
privatized military housing
means military housing provided under subchapter IV of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Unsafe or unhealthy housing unit
The term
unsafe or unhealthy housing unit
means a unit of privatized military housing in which, at any given time, at least one of the following hazards is present:
(A)
Physiological hazards, including the following:
(i)
Dampness or microbial growth.
(ii)
Lead-based paint.
(iii)
Asbestos or manmade fibers.
(iv)
Ionizing radiation.
(v)
Biocides.
(vi)
Carbon monoxide.
(vii)
Volatile organic compounds.
(viii)
Infectious agents.
(ix)
Fine particulate matter.
(B)
Psychological hazards, including ease of access by unlawful intruders or lighting issues.
(C)
Poor ventilation.
(D)
Safety hazards.
(E)
Other hazards as determined by the Inspector General of the Department.
749.
Comptroller General study on prenatal and postpartum mental health conditions among members of the Armed Forces and their dependents
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on prenatal and postpartum mental health conditions among members of the Armed Forces and dependents of such members.
(2)
Elements
The study required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of the extent to which beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, including members of the Armed Forces and dependents of such members, are diagnosed with prenatal or postpartum mental health conditions, including—
(i)
prenatal or postpartum depression;
(ii)
prenatal or postpartum anxiety disorder;
(iii)
prenatal or postpartum obsessive compulsive disorder;
(iv)
prenatal or postpartum psychosis; and
(v)
other relevant mood disorders.
(B)
A demographic assessment of the population included in the study with respect to race, ethnicity, sex, age, relationship status, military service, military occupation, and rank, where applicable.
(C)
An assessment of the status of prenatal and postpartum mental health care for beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, including those who seek care at military medical treatment facilities and those who rely on civilian providers.
(D)
An assessment of the ease or delay for beneficiaries under the TRICARE program in obtaining treatment for prenatal and postpartum mental health conditions, including—
(i)
an assessment of wait times for mental health treatment at each military medical treatment facility; and
(ii)
a description of the reasons such beneficiaries may cease seeking such treatment.
(E)
A comparison of the rates of prenatal or postpartum mental health conditions within the military community to such rates in the civilian population, as reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(F)
An assessment of any effects of implicit or explicit bias in prenatal and postpartum mental health care under the TRICARE program, or evidence of racial or socioeconomic barriers to such care.
(b)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a), including—
(1)
recommendations for actions to be taken by the Secretary of Defense to improve prenatal and postpartum mental health among members of the Armed Forces and dependents of such members; and
(2)
such other recommendations as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
(c)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
dependent
and
TRICARE program
have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
750.
Plan for evaluation of flexible spending account options for members of the uniformed services and their families
(a)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to evaluate flexible spending account options that allow pre-tax payment of health and dental insurance premiums, out-of-pocket health care expenses, and dependent care expenses for members of the uniformed services and their family members, including an identification of any legislative or administrative barriers to achieving the implementation of such options.
(b)
Uniformed services defined
In this section, the term
uniformed services
has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 37, United States Code.
751.
Assessment of receipt by civilians of emergency medical treatment at military medical treatment facilities
(a)
Assessment
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall complete an assessment of the provision by the Department of Defense of emergency medical treatment to civilians who are not covered beneficiaries at military medical treatment facilities during the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on September 30, 2020.
(b)
Elements of assessment
The assessment completed under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to civilians who received emergency medical treatment at a military medical treatment facility during the period specified in such paragraph, the following:
(1)
The total fees charged to such civilians for such treatment and the total fees collected.
(2)
The amount of medical debt from such treatment that was garnished from such civilians, categorized by garnishment from Social Security benefits, tax refunds, wages, or other financial asset.
(3)
The number of such civilians from whom medical debt from such treatment was garnished.
(4)
The total fees for such treatment that were waived for such civilians.
(5)
With respect to medical debt incurred by such civilians from such treatment—
(A)
the amount of such debt that was collected by the Department of Defense;
(B)
the amount of such debt still owed to the Department; and
(C)
the amount of debt transferred from the Department of Defense to the Department of the Treasury for collection.
(6)
The number of such civilians from whom such medical debt was collected who did not possess medical insurance at the time of such treatment.
(7)
The number of such civilians from whom such medical debt was collected who collected Social Security benefits at the time of such treatment.
(8)
The number of such civilians from whom such medical debt was collected who, at the time of such treatment, earned—
(A)
less than the poverty line;
(B)
less than 200 percent of the poverty line;
(C)
less than 300 percent of the poverty line; and
(D)
less than 400 percent of the poverty line.
(9)
An assessment of the process through which military medical treatment facilities seek to recover unpaid medical debt from such civilians, including whether the Department of Defense contracts with private debt collectors to recover such unpaid medical debt.
(10)
An assessment of the process, if any, through which such civilians can apply to have medical debt for such treatment waived, forgiven, canceled, or otherwise determined to not be a financial obligation of the civilian.
(11)
Such other information as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
(c)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the completion of the assessment under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the results of the assessment.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Civilian
The term
civilian
means an individual who is not—
(A)
a member of the Armed Forces;
(B)
a contractor of the Department of Defense; or
(C)
a civilian employee of the Department.
(2)
Covered beneficiary
The term
covered beneficiary
has the meaning given that term in section 1072(5) of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Poverty line
The term
poverty line
has the meaning given that term in section 673 of the Community Services Block Grant Act (
42 U.S.C. 9902
).
752.
Report on billing practices for health care from Department of Defense
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Through the TRICARE program, the Department of Defense provides health care benefits and services to approximately 9,500,000 beneficiaries.
(2)
The Department of Defense is not structured as a typical health care provider, which can lead to complicated billing practices and strict deadlines for members of the Armed Forces, former members of the Armed Forces, and their dependents, as well as for providers.
(3)
Numerous findings issued by the Inspector General of the Department of Defense between 2014 and 2019 describe the third-party collection program of the Department as inadequately managed, resulting in substantial uncollected funds that could be used to improve the quality of health care at military medical treatment facilities.
(4)
Numerous press reports have found that the Federal Government aggressively collects unpaid debts from uninsured or low-income civilian patients who happen to receive treatment at a military medical treatment facility, even though providing that treatment often benefits military readiness by providing experience to military medical professionals.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that it is in the national interest of the United States to ensure members of the Armed Forces, former members of the Armed Forces, and their dependents receive high-quality health care, and that Federal agencies prioritize fairness and accessibility when administering health care.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report assessing the billing practices of the Department of Defense for care received under the TRICARE program or at military medical treatment facilities.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the extent to which data is being collected and maintained on whether beneficiaries under the TRICARE program have other forms of health insurance.
(B)
A description of the extent to which the Secretary of Defense has implemented the recommendations of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense to improve collections of third-party payments for care at military medical treatment facilities and a description of the impact such implementation has had on such beneficiaries.
(C)
A description of the extent to which the process used by managed care support contractors under the TRICARE program to adjudicate third-party liability claims is efficient and effective, including with respect to communication with such beneficiaries.
(d)
TRICARE program defined
In this section, the term
TRICARE program
has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
753.
Access of veterans to Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall provide to a veteran read-only access to the documents of the veteran contained in the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record in a printable format through a portal accessible through a website of the Department of Veterans Affairs and a website of the Department of Defense.
754.
Study on the incidence of cancer diagnosis and mortality among military aviators and aviation support personnel
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, in conjunction with the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute, shall conduct a study on cancer among covered individuals in two phases as provided in this subsection.
(2)
Phase 1
(A)
In general
Under the initial phase of the study conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall determine if there is a higher incidence of cancers occurring for covered individuals as compared to similar age groups in the general population through the use of the database of the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of the National Cancer Institute.
(B)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of the initial phase of the study under subparagraph (A).
(3)
Phase 2
(A)
In general
If, pursuant to the initial phase of the study under paragraph (2), the Secretary concludes that there is an increased rate of cancers among covered individuals, the Secretary shall conduct a second phase of the study under which the Secretary shall do the following:
(i)
Identify the carcinogenic toxins or hazardous materials associated with military flight operations from shipboard or land bases or facilities, such as fuels, fumes, and other liquids.
(ii)
Identify the operating environments, including frequencies or electromagnetic fields, where exposure to ionizing radiation (associated with high altitude flight) and nonionizing radiation (associated with airborne, ground, and shipboard radars) occurred in which covered individuals could have received increased radiation amounts.
(iii)
Identify, for each covered individual, duty stations, dates of service, aircraft flown, and additional duties (including Landing Safety Officer, Catapult and Arresting Gear Officer, Air Liaison Officer, Tactical Air Control Party, or personnel associated with aircraft maintenance, supply, logistics, fuels, or transportation) that could have increased the risk of cancer for such covered individual.
(iv)
Determine locations where a covered individual served or additional duties of a covered individual that are associated with higher incidences of cancers.
(v)
Identify potential exposures due to service in the Armed Forces that are not related to aviation, such as exposure to burn pits or toxins in contaminated water, embedded in the soil, or inside bases or housing.
(vi)
Determine the appropriate age to begin screening covered individuals for cancer based on race, gender, flying hours, period of service as aviation support personnel, Armed Force, type of aircraft, and mission.
(B)
Data
The Secretary shall format all data included in the study conducted under this paragraph in accordance with the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of the National Cancer Institute, including by disaggregating such data by race, gender, and age.
(C)
Report
Not later than one year after the submittal of the report under paragraph (2)(B), if the Secretary conducts the second phase of the study under this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of the study conducted under this paragraph.
(4)
Use of data from previous studies
In conducting the study under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall incorporate data from previous studies conducted by the Air Force, the Navy, or the Marine Corps that are relevant to the study under this subsection, including data from the comprehensive study conducted by the Air Force identifying each covered individual and documenting the cancers, dates of diagnoses, and mortality of each covered individual.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committee of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Armed Forces
The term
Armed Forces
—
(A)
has the meaning given the term
armed forces
in section 101 of title 10, United States Code; and
(B)
includes the reserve components named in section 10101 of such title.
(3)
Covered individual
The term
covered individual
—
(A)
means an aviator or aviation support personnel who—
(i)
served in the Armed Forces on or after February 28, 1961; and
(ii)
receives benefits under
chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code; and
(B)
includes any air crew member of fixed-wing aircraft and personnel supporting generation of the aircraft, including pilots, navigators, weapons systems operators, aircraft system operators, personnel associated with aircraft maintenance, supply, logistics, fuels, or transportation, and any other crew member who regularly flies in an aircraft or is required to complete the mission of the aircraft.
D
Mental health services from Department of Veterans Affairs for members of reserve components
761.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
Care and Readiness Enhancement for Reservists Act of 2020
or the
CARE for Reservists Act of 2020
.
762.
Expansion of eligibility for readjustment counseling and related outpatient services from Department of Veterans Affairs to
include members of reserve components of the Armed Forces
(a)
Readjustment counseling
Subsection (a)(1) of section 1712A of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
(i)
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, may furnish to any member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces who has a behavioral health condition or psychological trauma, counseling under subparagraph (A)(i), which may include a comprehensive individual assessment under subparagraph (B)(i).
(ii)
A member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces described in clause (i) shall not be required to obtain a referral before being furnished counseling or an assessment under this subparagraph.
.
(b)
Outpatient services
Subsection (b) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by inserting
to an individual
after
If, on the basis of the assessment furnished
; and
(B)
by striking
veteran
each place it appears and inserting
individual
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
veteran
and inserting
individual
.
(c)
Effective Date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
763.
Provision of mental health services from Department of Veterans Affairs to members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
Subchapter VIII of
chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1789.
Mental health services for members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, may furnish mental health services to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1788 the following new item:
1789. Mental health services for members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
.
764.
Inclusion of members of reserve components in mental health programs of Department of Veterans
Affairs
(a)
Suicide prevention program
(1)
In general
Section 1720F of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(l)
(1)
Covered individual defined
In this section, the term
covered individual
means a veteran or a member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(2)
In determining coverage of members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces under the comprehensive program, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Defense.
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
Such section is further amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
;
(B)
in subsection (b), by striking
veterans
each place it appears and inserting
covered individuals
;
(C)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
in the subsection heading, by striking
of veterans
;
(ii)
by striking
veterans
each place it appears and inserting
covered individuals
; and
(iii)
by striking
veteran
and inserting
individual
;
(D)
in subsection (d), by striking
to veterans
each place it appears and inserting
to covered individuals
;
(E)
in subsection (e), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
;
(F)
in subsection (f)—
(i)
in the first sentence, by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
; and
(ii)
in the second sentence, by inserting
or members
after
veterans
;
(G)
in subsection (g), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
;
(H)
in subsection (h), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
;
(I)
in subsection (i)—
(i)
in the subsection heading, by striking
for veterans and families
;
(ii)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
veterans and the families of veterans
and inserting
covered individuals and the families of covered individuals
;
(iii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
; and
(iv)
in paragraph (4), by striking
veterans
each place it appears and inserting
covered individuals
;
(J)
in subsection (j)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
veterans
each place it appears and inserting
covered individuals
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (4)—
(I)
in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
women veterans
and inserting
covered individuals who are women
;
(II)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
women veterans who
and inserting
covered individuals who are women and
; and
(III)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
women veterans
and inserting
covered individuals who are women
; and
(K)
in subsection (k), by striking
veterans
and inserting
covered individuals
.
(3)
Clerical amendments
(A)
In general
Such section is further amended, in the section heading, by inserting
and members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
after
veterans
.
(B)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 1720F and inserting the following new item:
1720F. Comprehensive program for suicide prevention among veterans and members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces.
.
(b)
Mental health treatment for individuals who served in classified missions
(1)
In general
Section 1720H of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in paragraph (1)—
(I)
by striking
eligible veteran
and inserting
eligible individual
; and
(II)
by striking
the veteran
and inserting
the individual
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (3), by striking
eligible veterans
and inserting
eligible individuals
;
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
by striking
a veteran
and inserting
an individual
; and
(ii)
by striking
eligible veteran
and inserting
eligible individual
; and
(C)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
The term
eligible veteran
means a veteran
and inserting
The term
eligible individual
means a veteran or a member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (3), by striking
eligible veteran
and inserting
eligible individual
.
(2)
Clerical amendments
(A)
In general
Such section is further amended, in the section heading, by inserting
and members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
after
veterans
.
(B)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 1720H and inserting the following new item:
1720H. Mental health treatment for veterans and members of the reserve components of the Armed
Forces who served in classified missions.
.
765.
Report on mental health and related services provided by Department of Veterans Affairs to
members of the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report that includes an assessment of the following:
(1)
The increase, as compared to the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, of the number of members of the Armed Forces that use readjustment counseling or outpatient mental health care from the Department of Veterans Affairs, disaggregated by State, Vet Center location, and clinical care site of the Department, as appropriate.
(2)
The number of members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces receiving telemental health care from the Department.
(3)
The increase, as compared to the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, of the annual cost associated with readjustment counseling and outpatient mental health care provided by the Department to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(4)
The changes, as compared to the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, in staffing, training, organization, and resources required for the Department to offer readjustment counseling and outpatient mental health care to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(5)
Any challenges the Department has encountered in providing readjustment counseling and outpatient mental health care to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
(b)
Vet Center defined
In this section, the term
Vet Center
has the meaning given that term in section 1712A(h) of title 38, United States Code.
VIII
Acquisition policy, acquisition management, and related matters
A
Industrial base matters
801.
Policy recommendations for implementation of Executive Order 13806 (Assessing and Strengthening the Manufacturing and Defense Industrial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency)
(a)
Submission of recommendations to Secretary of Defense
In order to fully implement the July 21, 2017, Presidential Executive Order on Assessing and Strengthening the Manufacturing and Defense Industrial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency of the United States, not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a series of recommendations regarding United States industrial policies. The recommendations shall consist of specific executive actions, programmatic changes, regulatory changes, and legislative proposals and changes, as appropriate.
(b)
Scope of assessment
In developing the recommendations required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall assess—
(1)
direct subsidies and investment in the economy;
(2)
direct provision of credit and purchases of private sector bonds and equity;
(3)
prize-based technology challenges for critical research and development milestones;
(4)
capital controls and dollar policy;
(5)
trade policy, including export control policy, government acquisition policy, and targeted protectionist policies;
(6)
export promotion policies;
(7)
foreign talent attraction and retention;
(8)
graduate education policy; and
(9)
expansion of existing or establishment of new public-private partnerships, including the Trusted Capital Marketplace.
(c)
Objectives
The recommendations made pursuant to subsection (a) shall aim to—
(1)
facilitate only high-value design, engineering, and manufacturing activities;
(2)
expand the defense industrial base to include friendly and capable allies and partners;
(3)
preserve the viability of domestic and international suppliers;
(4)
include export and productivity incentives;
(5)
accord with standing international trade law; and
(6)
strengthen the domestic national security industrial base, especially in areas currently dependent on foreign suppliers.
(d)
Consultation
In assessing the areas specified in subsection (b) and developing the recommendations required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall consult or inaugurate studies with, as appropriate, the Joint Industrial Base Working Group, the Defense Science Board, the Defense Innovation Board, economists, commercial industry, and federally funded research and development centers.
(e)
Submission of recommendations to President
Not later than 30 days after receiving the recommendations under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit the recommendations, together with any additional views or recommendations, to the President, the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Council, and the National Economic Council.
(f)
Submission of recommendations to Congress
Not later than 30 days after submitting the recommendations to the President under section (e), the Secretary of Defense shall submit the recommendations to and brief the congressional defense committees on the recommendations.
802.
Assessment of national security innovation base
(a)
In general
Not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Secretary of Defense an assessment of the economic forces and structures shaping the capacity of the national security innovation base and policy recommendations pertaining to the outcome of such assessment.
(b)
Elements
The assessment required under subsection (a) shall review the following matters as they pertain to the innovative and manufacturing capacity of the national security innovation base:
(1)
Competition and antitrust policy.
(2)
Immigration policy, including the policies germane to the attraction and retention of skilled immigrants.
(3)
Graduate education funding and policy.
(4)
Demand stabilization and social safety net policies.
(5)
The structure and incentives of financial markets and businesses’ access to credit.
(6)
Trade policy, including export control policy.
(7)
The tax code and its effect on investment, including the Federal research and development tax credit.
(8)
Deregulation in critical economic sectors, land use, environment review, and construction and manufacturing activities.
(9)
National economic and manufacturing infrastructure.
(10)
Intellectual property reform.
(11)
Federally funded investments in the economy, including research and development and advanced manufacturing.
(12)
Federally funded procurement of goods and services.
(13)
Federally funded investments to expand domestic manufacturing capabilities.
(c)
Engagement with certain entities
In conducting the assessment required under subsection (a), the Deputy Secretary shall engage through appropriate mechanisms with the Defense Science Board, the Defense Innovation Board, the Defense Business Board, academic experts, commercial industry, and federally funded research and development centers.
(d)
Submission of assessment
Not later than 30 days after receiving the assessment and recommendations under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit the assessment, together with recommendations and any additional views of the Secretary, to the President, the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Council, the National Economic Council, and the congressional defense committees.
803.
Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the national technology and industrial base
(a)
National technology and industrial base implementation
(1)
Assessment of research and development, manufacturing, and production capabilities
(A)
In general
In developing the strategy required by section 2501 of title 10, United States Code, carrying out the analysis of the national technology and industrial base required by section 2503 of such title, and performing the periodic assessments required under section 2505 of such title, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the Under Secretary of Research and Engineering, assess the research and development, manufacturing, and production capabilities of entities within the United States and non-United States members of the national technology and industrial base as well as other friendly nations.
(B)
Identification of specific technologies, companies, laboratories, and factories
The assessment shall include identification of specific technologies, companies, laboratories, and factories of or located in the United States and the non-United States members of the national technology and industrial base of potential value to current and future Department of Defense plans and programs.
(2)
Policy and guidance
Consistent with section 2440 of title 10, United States Code, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall develop and promulgate to the service and command acquisition executives, the heads of the appropriate defense agencies and field activities, and relevant program managers acquisition policy and guidance germane to the use of the research and development, manufacturing, and production capabilities identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) and the technologies, companies, laboratories, and factories in specific Department of Defense research and development, international cooperative research, procurement, and sustainment activities.
(b)
Cooperative research and development
(1)
Authority to enter into cooperative research and development projects with nations in the National Technology and Industrial Base
Section 2350a(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(F)
A nation in the National Technology and Industrial Base, as defined by section 2500 of title 10, United States Code.
.
(2)
Regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to conform with subparagraph (F) of section 2350a(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1).
(c)
Regulatory council
Section 2502 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
(e)
National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council
(1)
Establishment
The Chairman of the National Defense Technology and Industrial Base Council shall work with the equivalent designees in the countries that comprise the national technology and industrial base to establish the National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council.
(2)
Meetings
The National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council shall meet biannually to harmonize respective policies and regulations, and to propose new legislation and regulations that increase the integration between the policies, persons, and organizations comprising the national technology and industrial base.
(3)
Duties
The National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council shall—
(A)
address and review issues related to industrial security, supply chain security, cybersecurity, regulating foreign direct investment and foreign ownership, control and influence mitigation, market research, technology assessment, and research cooperation within public and private research and development organizations and universities, technology and export control measures, acquisition processes and oversight, and management best practices; and
(B)
establish a mechanism for national technology and industrial base members to raise disputes that arise within the national technology and industrial base at a government-to-government level.
.
(d)
Recommendations for additional members of the national technology and industrial base
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a process to consider the inclusion of additional member nations in the national technology and industrial base.
(2)
Elements
The process developed under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
analysis of the national security costs and benefits to the United States and allies of the inclusion of such additional member nation in the national technology and industrial base;
(B)
analysis of the economic costs and benefits to entities within the United States and allies of the inclusion of such additional member nation into the national technology and industrial base, including an assessment of—
(i)
specific shortfalls in the technological and industrial capacities of current member nations of the national technology and industrial base that would be addressed by inclusion of such additional member nation; and
(ii)
specific areas in the industrial bases of current member nations of the national technology and industrial base that would likely be impacted by additional competition if such additional nation were included in the national technology and industrial base; and
(C)
analysis of other factors as determined relevant by the Secretary.
(3)
Recommended legislation
(A)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may submit legislative proposals to Congress to add new nations to the national technology and industrial base.
(B)
Elements
Proposals submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall include the following elements:
(i)
A summary of the analyses performed pursuant to subsection (d)(2).
(ii)
A set of metrics to assess the national security and economic benefits that such inclusion is expected to accrue to entities within the United States and allied nations.
(4)
Report
Not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report with recommendations regarding whether to include in the national technology and industrial base each country with which the United States maintains a mutual defense treaty, a reciprocal defense procurement agreement, or other defense cooperation agreement. The report shall be based on assessments conducted using the process established under paragraph (1) and shall include, for each country recommended for inclusion, the information specified in paragraph (3)(B).
804.
Modification of framework for modernizing acquisition processes to ensure integrity of industrial base
Section 2509 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 845(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
by inserting
, such as those identified through the Department of Defense’s supply chain risk management process and by the Federal Acquisition Security Council, and
after
supply chain risks
; and
(ii)
in clause (ii), by striking
(other than optical transmission components)
;
(B)
in subparagraph (C)—
(i)
in clause (x), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(ii)
by redesignating clause (xi) as clause (xii); and
(iii)
by inserting after clause (x) the following new clause:
(xi)
processes and procedures related to supply chain risk management, including those implemented pursuant to section 806 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
;
10 U.S.C. 2304
note); and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(E)
Characterization and assessment of industrial base support policies, programs, and procedures, including—
(i)
limitations and acquisition guidance relevant to the national technology and industrial base (as defined in section 2500(1) of this title);
(ii)
limitations and acquisition guidance relevant to section 2533a of this title;
(iii)
the Industrial Base Analysis and Sustainment program, including direct support and common design activities;
(iv)
the Small Business Innovation Research program;
(v)
the Department of Defense Manufacturing Technology program;
(vi)
programs related to the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4511
et seq.);
(vii)
the Trusted Capital Marketplace program; and
(viii)
programs in the military services.
; and
(2)
in subsection (f)(2), by inserting
, and supporting policies, procedures, and guidance
after
pursuant to subsection (b)
.
805.
Assessments of industrial base capabilities and capacity
(a)
Assessments
The Secretary of Defense shall define intelligence and other information requirements, sources, and organizational responsibilities for assessing foreign adversary technological and industrial bases and conducting comparative analyses of such technological and industrial bases. The requirements, sources, and responsibilities shall include—
(1)
examining the competitive advantages foreign adversaries are pursuing, including with respect to regulation, raw materials, educational capacity, labor, and capital accessibility;
(2)
assessing relative cost, speed of product development, age and value of the installed capital base, leadership’s technical competence and agility, nationally imposed inhibiting conditions, the availability of human and material resources, and the burdens of government oversight;
(3)
a temporal evaluation of the competitive strengths and weaknesses of United States industry, including manufacturing surge capacity, versus the directed priorities and capabilities of foreign adversary governments; and
(4)
assessing any other issues that the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
(b)
Methodology
The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Policy shall incorporate inputs pursuant to subsection (a) as part of a methodology to continuously assess domestic and foreign industries, markets, and companies of significance to military and industrial advantage to identify supply chain vulnerabilities.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than March 15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on efforts to establish the continuous assessment activity required under subsections (a) and (b).
(2)
Elements
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a consideration of whether it would be appropriate to task some of the assessment work to an organization independent of the Department, and any recommendations regarding which organization should perform such work.
806.
Analyses of certain materials and technology sectors for action to address sourcing and industrial capacity
(a)
Analyses required
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Undersecretary for Acquisition and Sustainment and other appropriate officials, shall review the materials, processes, and technology sectors under subsection (c) to determine and develop appropriate actions, consistent with the policies, programs, and activities required under
chapter 148
of title 10, United States Code, including—
(A)
restricting procurement, with appropriate waivers for cost, emergency requirements, and non-availability of suppliers, including restricting procurement to—
(i)
suppliers in the United States;
(ii)
suppliers in the national technology and industrial base (as defined in section 2500(1) of title 10, United States Code);
(iii)
suppliers in other allied nations; or
(iv)
other suppliers;
(B)
increasing investment to expand capacity or diversifying sources of supply or alternative approaches to addressing military requirements, through use of research and development or procurement activities and acquisition authorities;
(C)
taking a combination of actions described under subparagraphs (A) and (B); or
(D)
taking no actions, restrictions, or additional investment.
(2)
Considerations
The analyses conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall consider national security, economic, and treaty implications, as well as impacts on current and potential suppliers of goods and services.
(b)
Recommendations
The analyses conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used to inform policy, agreements, guidance and reporting requirements under
chapter 148
of title 10, United States Code, including—
(1)
the annual report to Congress required under section 2504 of such title;
(2)
the annual report on unfunded priorities of the national technology and industrial base required under section 2504a of such title;
(3)
Department of Defense technology and industrial base policy guidance prescribed under section 2506 of such title;
(4)
activities to modernize acquisition processes to ensure integrity of industrial base pursuant to section 2509 of such title;
(5)
defense memoranda of understanding and related agreements considered in accordance with section 2531 of such title;
(6)
other requirements as appropriate.
(c)
Materials, technologies, and processes of interest
The Secretary of Defense shall prioritize undertaking analyses and making recommendations under this section for the following goods and services:
(1)
Goods and services covered under existing restrictions, where a domestic non-availability determination has been made.
(2)
Critical technologies identified in the National Defense Strategy.
(3)
Technologies and sectors identified in reports required regarding the defense industrial base.
(4)
Microelectronics.
(5)
Printed circuit boards and other electronics components.
(6)
Pharmaceuticals.
(7)
Medical devices.
(8)
Personal protective equipment.
(9)
Rare earth materials.
(10)
Synthetic graphite.
(11)
Coal-based rayon carbon fibers.
(12)
Aluminum.
807.
Microelectronics manufacturing strategy
(a)
In general
Not later than January 1, 2021, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary for Research and Engineering, and the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff a strategy to manufacture state-of-the art integrated circuits in the United States within a period of three to five years that includes a plan to explore and evaluate options for re-establishing microelectronics foundry services and the industrial capabilities associated with such services.
(b)
Elements
In developing the strategy required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall consider—
(1)
multiple models of public-private partnerships to execute the strategy;
(2)
processes and criteria for competitive selection of commercial companies, including companies headquartered in allied and partner countries, to provide design, foundry and assembly, and packaging services and to build and operate the industrial capabilities associated with such services;
(3)
the role that the broader Federal Government should play in organizing and supporting the strategy, including any required direct or indirect funding support, or legislative and regulatory actions, including restricting procurements to domestic sources, and providing anti-trust and export control relief; and
(4)
all potential funding sources and mechanisms for initial and sustaining investments.
(c)
Submission of strategy to President
Not later February 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the strategy, together with any views and recommendations, and an estimated budget to implement the strategy, to the President, the National Security Council, and the National Economic Council.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the strategy to and brief the congressional defense committees on the strategy and the Secretary’s recommendations.
808.
Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit boards
(a)
Purchases
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall require for new contracts or other acquisition activities that contractors, or subcontractors at any tier, that provide covered printed circuit boards for use by the Department of Defense certify that, of the total value of the covered printed circuit boards provided by the contractor or subcontractor pursuant to a contract or subcontract with the Department of Defense, not less than the percentages set forth in subsection (b) were manufactured and assembled within a covered nation.
(b)
Implementation
(1)
Establishment of required percentages
In establishing the certification process under subsection (a), the Secretary shall establish and publish increasing percentages of values of the covered printed circuit boards under subsection (a) to be complied with by appropriate contractors and subcontractors, based on—
(A)
assessment of covered nation capacity to supply printed circuit boards, over time;
(B)
assessment of threats to national security capabilities from use of printed circuit boards from non-covered nations;
(C)
economic benefits accrued by non-covered nations which would otherwise be accrued by covered nations;
(D)
achieving a goal of production of 100 percent of manufacture and assembly of printed circuit boards in covered nations within ten years; and
(E)
other criteria as determined appropriate.
(2)
Minimum percentages
The percentages established by the Secretary under this subsection shall, in any case, be equal to or greater than, unless specifically directed by the Secretary for an individual contract or subcontract—
(A)
25 percent by October 1, 2023;
(B)
50 percent by October 1, 2025;
(C)
75 percent by October 1, 2029; and
(D)
100 percent by October 1, 2032.
(3)
Limited exceptions
If the Secretary of Defense directs that a specific contract or subcontract is required to comply with a different percentage than those prescribed under this subsection, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days after such direction is issued, along with a rationale for the changed percentage.
(c)
Remediation
In the event that a contractor or subcontractor is unable to complete the certification required under subsection (a), the Secretary may accept covered printed circuit boards from the contractor or subcontractor for an appropriate time period, not to exceed 18 months over a five-year period, while requiring the contractor to complete a remediation plan. Such a plan shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees and shall require the contractor or subcontractor to—
(1)
audit its supply chain to identify any areas of security vulnerability and compliance with section 224 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 119–92
); and
(2)
meet the requirements of subsection (a) within in an expedited fashion after the initial missed certification deadline to address national security threats.
(d)
Waiver
A contractor may request that the Secretary of Defense waive the requirement for certification, and the Secretary may grant such a waiver, if the Secretary has conclusively determined that—
(1)
there are no significant national security concerns regarding counterfeiting, quality, or unauthorized access created by any covered printed circuit boards provided to the Department of Defense by the contractor in the fiscal year under the certification requirement or the previous fiscal year;
(2)
the contractor is otherwise in compliance with all relevant cybersecurity provisions relating to members of the defense industrial base, including section 244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020; and
(3)
the waiver is required to support national security needs, particularly with respect to acquisitions of commercial items.
(e)
Availability and cost exceptions
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the extent that the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that covered printed circuit boards of satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity, in the required form, cannot be procured as and when needed from covered nations at reasonable cost, excluding comparisons with non-market economies, or in time to meet an operational requirement.
(f)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
covered printed circuit board
means any printed circuit board that is a—
(A)
noncommercial item; or
(B)
commercial or commercially available off-the-shelf item that transmits or stores national security sensitive information for—
(i)
telecommunications;
(ii)
data communications;
(iii)
data storage;
(iv)
medical applications;
(v)
networking;
(vi)
fifth-generation cellular communications;
(vii)
computing;
(viii)
radar;
(ix)
munitions; or
(x)
any other system that the Secretary of Defense determines should be covered under this section; and
(2)
the term
covered nation
means—
(A)
the United States;
(B)
a member nation of the national technology and industrial base under section 2500 of title 10, United States Code; or
(C)
a nation that has agreed, in compliance with section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2776
) and section 2457 of title 10, United States Code—
(i)
to comply with agreements with foreign governments requiring the United States to purchase supplies from foreign sources for the purposes of offsetting sales made by the United States Government or United States firms under approved programs serving defense requirements; or
(ii)
along with the United States Government, to remove barriers to purchases of supplies produced in the other country or services performed by sources of the other country; or
(D)
any country, other than the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, Iran, or the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, that the Secretary designates, upon a determination to be published in the Federal Register, that accepting covered printed circuit boards from which—
(i)
is in the national security interests of the United States; and
(ii)
does not pose a significant risk to national security systems.
(g)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Department of Defense from entering into a contract with an entity that connects to the facilities of a third party, for the purposes of backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements, on the basis of the third party’s noncompliance with the provisions of this section.
809.
Statement of policy with respect to supply of strategic minerals and metals for Department of Defense purposes
(a)
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States that the Department of Defense shall pursue the following goals:
(1)
Ensure, by 2030, secure sources of supply of strategic minerals and metals that will—
(A)
fully meet the demands of the domestic defense industrial base;
(B)
eliminate the dependence of the United States on unsecure sources of supply of strategic minerals and metals; and
(C)
ensure that the Department of Defense is not reliant upon unsecure sources of supply for the processing or manufacturing of any strategic mineral and metal deemed essential to national security by the Secretary of Defense.
(2)
Provide incentives for the defense industrial base to develop robust processing and manufacturing capabilities in the United States to refine strategic minerals and metals for Department of Defense purposes.
(3)
Maintain secure sources of supply of strategic minerals and metals required to maintain current military requirements in the event that international supply chains are disrupted.
(4)
Achieve the goals described in paragraphs (1) through (3) through, among other methods—
(A)
the continued and expanded use of existing programs, such as the National Defense Stockpile administered by the Defense Logistics Agency; and
(B)
the continued use of authorities under title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4531
et seq.).
(b)
Strategic minerals and metals
For purposes of this section, strategic minerals and metals include critical minerals, as defined pursuant to Executive Order 13817.
810.
Report on strategic and critical minerals and metals
(a)
Report required
Not later than June 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of a study, conducted for purposes of this section, concerning strategic and critical minerals and metals and vulnerabilities in supply chains of such minerals and metals.
(b)
Strategic and critical minerals and metals
For purposes of this section, strategic and critical minerals and metals are minerals and metals, including rare earth elements, that are necessary to meet national defense and national security requirements, including supply chain resiliency, and for the economic security of the United States.
(c)
Elements
The study required for purposes of the report under subsection (a) shall do the following:
(1)
Identify the strategic and critical minerals and metals that are currently utilized by the Department of Defense.
(2)
To the extent practicable, identify the overall annual tonnage of each strategic or critical mineral or metal identified pursuant to paragraph (1) that was utilized by the Department during the 10-year period ending on December 31, 2020.
(3)
Identify domestic and international sources for the strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1).
(4)
Identify risks to access to the strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1) from supply chain disruptions due to geopolitical, economic, and other vulnerabilities.
(5)
Evaluate the benefits of a robust domestic supply chain for providing strategic and critical minerals and metals to Department manufacturing supply chains in real time.
(6)
Evaluate the effects of the use of waivers by the Department of Defense Strategic Materials Protection Board on the domestic supply of strategic and critical minerals and metals.
(7)
Recommend policies and procedures for the Department to ensure a capability to secure strategic and critical minerals and metals necessary for emerging technologies such as anti-microbial products, minerals, and metals for use in medical equipment among other technologies.
(8)
Identify improvements required to the National Defense Stockpile in order to ensure the Department has access to the strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1).
(9)
Evaluate the domestic processing and manufacturing capacity needed to supply the Department with the strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1) in an economic and secure manner.
(10)
In consultation with the United States Geological Survey, identify domestic locations already verified to contain large supplies of strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1) with existing commercial manufacturing interest.
(11)
Address any other matter relating to strategic and critical minerals and metals that the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
811.
Stabilization of shipbuilding industrial base workforce
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Department of the Navy must explore and identify solutions, in consultation with the Department of Labor, to enhance shipbuilding workforce stability and ensure industry preparedness to construct the 355-ship fleet.
(b)
Working group to stabilize shipbuilding industrial base workforce
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Navy shall form a working group with the Secretary of Labor for the purpose of enhancing integration of programs, resources, and expertise to strengthen the shipbuilding industrial base, as well as to provide recommendations to Congress, to better stabilize the shipbuilding industrial base workforce and determine appropriate solutions for workforce fluctuations.
(2)
Duties
The working group shall carry out the following activities related to the ongoing challenges with workforce stability:
(A)
Analyze existing Department of the Navy contracts with the shipbuilding industry and other relevant information to better anticipate future employment trends and tailor workforce resources and opportunities for workers most vulnerable to upcoming workforce fluctuations.
(B)
Identify existing Department of Labor programs for unemployed, underemployed, and furloughed employees that could benefit the shipbuilding industrial base workforce during times of workload fluctuations and workforce instability, and explore potential partnerships to connect employees with appropriate resources.
(C)
Explore possible cost sharing agreements to enable the Department of the Navy to contribute funding to existing Department of Labor workforce programs to support the shipbuilding workforce.
(D)
Examine possible programs that will specifically assist furloughed employees who may sporadically rely on unemployment benefits.
(E)
Explore opportunities for unemployed, underemployed, or furloughed employees to provide workforce training through temporary partnerships with States, technical schools, community colleges, and other local workforce development opportunities.
(F)
Review existing training programs for the shipbuilding workforce to maximize relevant and necessary training opportunities that would broaden employee skillset during times of unemployment, underemployment, or furlough, where applicable.
(G)
Assess the possibility of shipbuilding worker support programs to weather a period of unemployment, underemployment, or furlough, including compensation options, alternative employment, temporary stipends, or other worker support opportunities.
(H)
Study cross-State credentialing requirements and identify any restrictions that inhibit the flexibility of the shipbuilding workforce to seek employment opportunities across State lines, and make recommendations to streamline licensing, credentialing, certification, and qualification requirements within the shipbuilding industry.
(I)
Review additional or new contracting authorities that could enable the Department of the Navy to award short-term, flexible contracts that will prioritize work for unemployed, underemployed, or furloughed employees within the shipbuilding workforce.
(J)
Identify specific workforce support programs to support suppliers of all sizes within the shipbuilding industrial base, and assess any additional support from prime contractors that would improve the stability of such suppliers.
(K)
Assess whether greater collaboration with the United States Coast Guard and its shipbuilding contractors and subcontractors would improve workforce stability by assessing a totality of shipbuilding demands.
(L)
Consider potential pilot programs that will specifically address shipbuilding industrial base workforce stability.
(M)
Explore any additional opportunities to invest in recruiting, retaining, and training a skilled shipbuilding workforce.
(N)
Consider and incorporate the findings and recommendations, as appropriate, of the report on shipbuilder training and the defense industrial base required under section 1037 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(3)
Notification requirement regarding establishment and structure
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, shall notify the congressional defense committees regarding the membership and structure of the working group.
(4)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives a report with the findings and recommendations of the working group.
812.
Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods
Section 2534 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking paragraphs (2) through (5);
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
(2)
Components for naval vessels
(A)
Vessel propellers with a diameter of six feet or more.
(B)
The following components of vessels, to the extent they are unique to marine applications: gyrocompasses, electronic navigation chart systems, steering controls, propulsion and machinery control systems, and totally enclosed lifeboats.
;
(C)
by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (3); and
(D)
in paragraph (3), as redesignated by subparagraph (C), by striking
(k)
and inserting
(j)
;
(2)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
(B)
in paragraph (2), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), by striking
subsection (a)(3)(A)(iii)
and inserting
subsection (a)(2)(A)
;
(3)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
by striking
items
.
and all that follows through
Subsection (a) does not apply
in paragraph (1) and inserting
items
.—Subsection (a) does not apply
; and
(B)
by striking paragraphs (2) though (5);
(4)
in subsection (g)—
(A)
by striking
(1) This section
and inserting
This section
; and
(B)
by striking paragraph (2);
(5)
in subsection (h), by striking
subsection (a)(3)(B)
and inserting
subsection (a)(2)(B)
;
(6)
in subsection (i)(3), by striking
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
and inserting
Acquisition and Sustainment
;
(7)
by striking subsection (j); and
(8)
by redesignating the first subsection designated subsection (k) as subsection (j).
813.
Use of domestically sourced star trackers in national security satellites
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (a), any acquisition executive of the Department of Defense who approves a contract for a national security satellite after October 1, 2021, shall require any star tracker system included in the design of such national security satellite to be domestically sourced.
(b)
Exceptions
The application of subsection (a) may be waived if the acquisition executive certifies in writing that—
(1)
there is no available domestically sourced star tracker system that meets the national security satellite systems mission and design requirements;
(2)
the cost of the available domestically sourced star tracker system is unreasonably priced based on a market survey; or
(3)
an urgent and compelling national security need exists to necessitate a foreign-made star tracker.
(c)
National security satellite defined
In this section,
national security satellite
is a satellite the principle purpose of which is to support the national security needs of the United States Government.
814.
Modification to small purchase threshold exception to sourcing requirements for certain articles
Subsection (h) of section 2533a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(h)
Exception for small purchases
Subsection (a) does not apply to purchases for amounts not greater than $150,000. A proposed purchase or contract for an amount greater than $150,000 may not be divided into several purchases or contracts for lesser amounts in order to qualify for this exception. On October 1 of each year evenly divisible by 5, the Secretary of Defense may adjust the dollar threshold in this subsection based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. The Secretary shall publish notice of any such adjustment in the Federal Register, and the new price threshold shall take effect on the date of publication.
.
B
Acquisition policy and management
831.
Report on acquisition risk assessment and mitigation as part of Adaptive Acquisition Framework implementation
(a)
Service Acquisition Executives input
The Service Acquisition Executives shall report to the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense how they are assessing, mitigating, and reporting on the following risks in acquisition programs:
(1)
Technical risks in engineering, software, manufacturing and testing.
(2)
Integration and interoperability risks, including complications related to systems working across multiple domains while using machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities to continuously change and optimize system performance.
(3)
Operations and sustainment risks, including as mediated by access to technical data and intellectual property rights.
(4)
Workforce and training risks, including consideration of the role of contractors as part of the total workforce.
(5)
Supply chain risks, including cybersecurity, foreign control and ownership of key elements of supply chains, and the consequences a fragile and weakening defense industrial base, combined with barriers to industrial cooperation with allies and partners pose for delivering systems and technologies in a trusted and assured manner.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than March 31, 2021, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report including—
(1)
the input received from the Service Acquisition Executives pursuant to subsection (a); and
(2)
the views of the Under Secretary with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of such subsection.
832.
Comptroller General report on implementation of software acquisition reforms
(a)
In general
Not later than March 15, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall brief the congressional defense committees on the implementation by the Department of Defense of required acquisition reforms with respect to acquiring software for weapon systems, business systems, and other activities that are part of the defense acquisition system, with a report, or reports, to follow as agreed upon by the committees and the Comptroller General.
(b)
Elements
The briefing and report, or reports, required under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the extent to which the Department of Defense has implemented requirements related to the following:
(1)
Software acquisition studies and their implementation, including pursuant to section 872 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition regulations), section 868 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; implementation of recommendations of the final report of the Defense Science Board Task Force on the Design and Acquisition of Software for Defense Systems).
(2)
Software acquisition activities pursuant to section 2322a of title 10, United States Code (related to consideration of certain maters during the acquisition of noncommercial computer software), section 875 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; pilot program for open source software), and section 800 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
, related to continuous integration and delivery of software applications and upgrades to embedded systems).
(3)
Software acquisition pilots, including the pilot program pursuant to section 873 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; relating to the use of agile or iterative development methods to tailor major software-intensive warfighting systems and defense business systems) and the pilot program pursuant to section 874 of such Act (relating to using agile best practices for software development).
(c)
Assessment of acquisition policy, guidance, and practices
Each report under subsection (a) should include an assessment of the extent to which Department of Defense software acquisition policy, guidance, and practices reflect implementation of relevant recommendations from related studies, pilot programs, and directives from the congressional defense committees.
(d)
Modification of requirements for Comptroller General assessment of acquisition programs and initiatives
Section 2229b(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
a summary of organizational and legislative changes and emerging assessment methodologies since the last assessment, and a discussion of the implications
and inserting
a discussion of selected organizational, policy, and legislative changes, as determined appropriate by the Comptroller General, and the potential implications
.
(e)
Defense acquisition system defined
In this section, the term
defense acquisition system
has the meaning given that term in section 2545(2) of title 10, United States Code.
C
Amendments to general contracting authorities, procedures, and limitations
841.
Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and services using general solicitation competitive procedures
(a)
Authority
(1)
In general
Chapter 140
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2380c.
Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and services using general solicitation competitive procedures
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of Defense may acquire innovative commercial products and services through a competitive selection of proposals resulting from a general solicitation and the peer review of such proposals.
(b)
Treatment as competitive procedures
Use of general solicitation competitive procedures under subsection (a) shall be considered to be use of competitive procedures for purposes of chapter 137 of this title.
(c)
Limitations
(1)
The Secretary may not enter into a contract or agreement in excess of $100,000,000 using the authority under subsection (a) without a written determination from the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment or the relevant service acquisition executive of the efficacy of the effort to meet mission needs of the Department of Defense or the relevant military department.
(2)
Contracts or agreements entered into using the authority under subsection (a) shall be fixed-price, including fixed-price incentive fee contracts.
(3)
Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, products and services acquired using the authority under subsection (a) shall be treated as commercial products and services.
(d)
Congressional notification required
(1)
Not later than 45 days after the award of a contract for an amount exceeding $100,000,000 using the authority in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of such award.
(2)
Notice of an award under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Description of the innovative commercial product or service acquired.
(B)
Description of the requirement, capability gap, or potential technological advancement with respect to which the innovative commercial product or service acquired provides a solution or a potential new capability.
(C)
Amount of the contract awarded.
(D)
Identification of contractor awarded the contract.
(e)
Innovative defined
. In this section, the term 'innovative' means—
(1)
any technology, process, or method, including research and development, that is new as of the date of submission of a proposal; or
(2)
any application that is new as of the date of submission of a proposal of a technology, process, or method existing as of such date.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 140
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 2380b
the following new item:
2380c. Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and services using general solicitation competitive procedures.
.
(b)
Repeal of obsolete authority
Section 879 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is hereby repealed.
842.
Truth in Negotiations Act threshold for Department of Defense contracts
Section 2306a(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
contract if
and all that follows through clause (iii) and inserting
contract if the price adjustment is expected to exceed $2,000,000.
;
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
section and—
and all that follows through clause (iii) and inserting
section and the price of the subcontract is expected to exceed $2,000,000.
; and
(3)
in subparagraph (D), by striking
subcontract if—
and all that follows through clause (ii) and inserting
subcontract if the price adjustment is expected to exceed $2,000,000.
.
843.
Revision of proof required when using an evaluation factor for defense contractors employing or subcontracting with members of the selected reserve of the reserve components of the Armed Forces
Section 819 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (
Public Law 109–163
; 119 Stat. 3385;
10 U.S.C. 2305
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (b); and
(2)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
844.
Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units
(a)
In general
Section 2302e of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the heading, by striking
advanced development
and inserting
development and demonstration
; and
(2)
in subsection (a)(1), by striking
provision of advanced component development, prototype,
and inserting
development and demonstration
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 2302e and inserting the following new item:
2302e. Contract authority for development and demonstration of initial or additional prototype units.
.
845.
Definition of business system deficiencies for contractor business systems
Section 893 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (
Public Law 111–383
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
significant deficiencies
both places it appears and inserting
material weaknesses
;
(2)
by striking
significant deficiency
each place it appears and inserting
material weakness
; and
(3)
by amending paragraph (4) of subsection (g) to read as follows:
(4)
The term
material weakness
means a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over risks related to Government contract compliance or other shortcomings in the system, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material noncompliance will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A reasonable possibility exists when the likelihood of an event occurring is either reasonably possible, meaning the chance of the future event occurring is more than remote but less than likely, or is probable.
.
846.
Repeal of pilot program on payment of costs for denied Government Accountability Office bid protests
Section 827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
) is repealed.
D
Provisions relating to major defense acquisition programs
861.
Implementation of modular open systems architecture requirements
(a)
Requirements for interface delivery
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Joint All Domain Command and Control Cross Functional Team under the supervision of the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer and the Joint Staff Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber, shall prescribe regulations and issue guidance to the military services, defense agencies and field activities, and combatant commands, as appropriate, in order to—
(A)
facilitate the Department of Defense’s access to and utilization of system, major subsystem, and major component software-defined interfaces;
(B)
fully meet the intent of
chapter 144B
of title 10, United States Code; and
(C)
advance the Department’s efforts to generate diverse and recomposable kill chains.
(2)
Elements
The regulations and guidance required in subsection (a)(1) shall include, at a minimum—
(A)
requirements that each relevant program office characterizes the desired modularity of the system for which it is responsible, either, in the case of major defense acquisition programs, in the acquisition strategy required under section 2431a of title 10, United States Code, or, in the case of other programs, via other documentation, including—
(i)
specification of which system, major subsystems, and major components should be able to execute without requiring coincident execution of other systems, major subsystems, and major components;
(ii)
a default configuration specifying which systems, major subsystems, and major components should communicate with other systems, major subsystems, and major components; and
(iii)
specification of what information should be communicated, the method of the communication, and the desired function of the communication;
(B)
requirements that relevant Department of Defense contracts include mandates for the delivery of system, major subsystem, and major component software-defined interfaces for systems, major subsystems, and major components deemed relevant in the acquisition strategy or documentation referred to in subsection (a)(2)(a), including—
(i)
software-defined interface syntax and properties, specifically governing how values are validly passed and received between major subsystems and components, in machine-readable format;
(ii)
a machine-readable definition of the relationship between the delivered interface and existing common standards or interfaces available in the interface repository of subsection (c), if appropriate and available, using interface field transform technology developed under the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency System of Systems Technology Integration Tool Chain for Heterogeneous Electronic Systems (STITCHES) program or technology that is functionally similar; and
(iii)
documentation with functional descriptions of software-defined interfaces, conveying semantic meaning of interface elements, such as the function of a given interface field;
(C)
requirements that relevant program offices, including those responsible for maintaining and upgrading legacy systems, that have awarded contracts that do not include the requirements specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) nevertheless acquire the items specified in clauses (i) through (iii) of such subparagraph, either through contractual updates, separate negotiations or contracts, or program management mechanisms; and
(D)
requirements that program offices deliver these interfaces and the associated documentation to the controlled repository established under subsection (c).
(3)
Applicability of regulations and guidance
(A)
Applicability
The regulations and guidance required under subsection (a)(1) shall apply, at a minimum, to program offices responsible for the prototyping, acquisition, or sustainment of new or existing cyber-physical weapon systems with software-defined interfaces, or with major subsystems or components with software-defined interfaces, developed or to be developed, wholly or in part with Federal funds, including those applicable program offices using other transaction authorities (OTA).
(B)
Extension of scope
One year after the promulgation of the regulations and guidance required under subsection (a)(1) for cyber-physical systems, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall extend the regulations and guidance to apply to purely software systems, including business systems and cybersecurity systems. The Secretary may make the regulations and guidance applicable, as practicable, to program offices responsible for the acquisition of systems and capabilities under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and commercially available off the-the-shelf items.
(C)
Inclusion of subsystems and components
The major subsystems and components covered under paragraph (2)(A) shall include all subsystems and components covered by contract line items.
(b)
Rights in interface software
(1)
Regulations
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall prescribe regulations to define the legitimate interest of the United States and of a contractor or subcontractor in interface software. The regulations shall be included in regulations of the Department of Defense prescribed as part of the Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(2)
Limitation on regulations
The regulations prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1) may not—
(A)
impair any right of the United States or of any contractor or subcontractor with respect to patents or copyrights or any other right in software otherwise established by law; or
(B)
impair the right of a contractor or subcontractor to receive from a third party a fee or royalty for the use of software pertaining to an item or process developed exclusively at private expense by the contractor or subcontractor, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
(3)
Elements
Such regulations shall include the following provisions:
(A)
In the case of a software interface that is developed by a contractor or subcontractor exclusively with Federal funds (other than an item developed under a contract or subcontract to which regulations under section 9(j)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(j)(2)
) apply), the United States shall have the unlimited and non-expiring right to use the software or release or disclose the software to persons outside the government or permit the use of the software by such persons.
(B)
In the case of a software interface that is developed in part with Federal funds and in part at private expense and except in any case in which the Secretary of Defense determines that negotiation of different rights in such software would be in the best interest of the United States, the Government—
(i)
shall have Government-purpose rights to the software interface, and, in addition, may release or disclose the software interface, or authorize others to do so, if—
(I)
prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to an exclusive for-Government-use and non-disclosure agreement;
(II)
the intended recipient is a Government contractor receiving access to the interface for the performance of a Government contract; and
(III)
the intended use is for the purpose of system, major subsystem, and major component segregation, interoperability, integration, or reintegration; and
(ii)
may not use, or authorize other persons to use, interface software for commercial purposes.
(C)
In the case of a software interface that is developed exclusively at private expense, the Government shall negotiate with the contractor or the subcontractor to best achieve, if practical, Government-purpose rights to the software interface and rights to release or disclose the software interface, or authorize others to do so, if—
(i)
prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to an exclusive for-Government use and non-disclosure agreement;
(ii)
the intended recipient is a Government contractor receiving access to the interface for the performance of a Government contract; and
(iii)
the intended use is for the purpose of system, major subsystem, and major component segregation, interoperability, integration and reintegration.
(c)
Interface repository
(1)
Establishment
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall establish and maintain, at the appropriate classification level, an interface repository for interfaces, syntax and properties, documentation, and communication implementations delivered pursuant to the requirements established under subsection (a)(2)(B) and shall provide interfaces, access to interfaces, and relevant documentation to the military services, defense agencies and field activities, combatant commands, and contractors, as appropriate, to facilitate system, major subsystem, and major component segregation and reintegration.
(2)
Distribution of interfaces
Consistent with section 2320 of title 10, United States Code, and in accordance with subsection (b), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment may distribute interfaces, access to interfaces, and relevant documentation to Government entities and contractors. Any such protected transfer or disclosure by the Government to a recipient is limited to only those data necessary for segregation, interoperability, integration, or reintegration.
(d)
System of systems integration technology and experimentation
(1)
Demonstrations and assessment
No later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Joint Staff Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber and Department of Defense Chief Information Officer, through the Joint All Domain Command and Control Cross Functional Team, shall conduct demonstrations and complete an assessment of the technologies developed under the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s System of Systems Integration Technology and Experimentation program, including the STITCHES technology, and their applicability to the Joint All-Domain Command and Control architecture. The demonstrations and assessment shall include—
(A)
at least three demonstrations of the use of the STITCHES technology to create, under constrained schedules and budgets, novel kill chains involving previously incompatible weapon systems, sensors, and command, control, and communication systems from multiple military services in cooperation with United States Indo-Pacific Command or United States European Command;
(B)
an evaluation as to whether the communications enabled via the STITCHES technology are sufficient for military missions and whether the technology results in any substantial performance loss in communication between systems, major subsystems, and major components;
(C)
an evaluation as to whether the STITCHES technology obviates the need to develop, impose, and maintain strict adherence to common communication and interface standards for Department of Defense systems;
(D)
the appropriate roles and responsibilities of the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the geographic combatant commands, the military services, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the defense industrial base in using and maintaining the STITCHES technology to generate diverse and recomposable kill chains as part of the Joint All-Domain Command and Control architecture; and
(E)
coordination with the program manager for the Time Sensitive Targeting Defeat program under the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
(2)
Chief Information Officer assessment
The Department of Defense Chief Information Officer shall assess the technologies developed under the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s System of Systems Integration Technology and Experimentation program, including the STITCHES interface field transform technology, and their applicability to the Department’s business systems and cybersecurity tools. This assessment shall include—
(A)
at least two demonstrations of the use of the STITCHES technology in enabling communication between business systems;
(B)
in coordination with the Cross Functional Team under the Principal Cyber Adviser and the Integrated Adaptive Cyber Defense program office of the National Security Agency, at least two demonstrations of the use of the STITCHES technology in enabling communication between and orchestration of previously incompatible cybersecurity tools; and
(C)
an evaluation as to how the STITCHES technology could be used in concert with or instead of existing cybersecurity standards, frameworks, and technologies designed to enable communication across cybersecurity tools.
(3)
Sustainment of STITCHES engineering resources and capabilities developed by DARPA
To conduct the demonstrations and assessments required under this subsection and to execute the Joint All Domain Command and Control program, the Joint All Domain Command and Control program office shall sustain the STITCHES engineering resources and capabilities developed by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
(e)
Transfer of responsibility for STITCHES
One year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may transfer responsibility for maintaining the STITCHES engineering capabilities to a different organization.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Desired modularity
The term
desired modularity
means the desired degree to which systems, major constitutive subsystems and components within a system, and major subsystems and components across subsystems can function as modules that can communicate across component boundaries and through interfaces and can be separated and recombined to achieve various effects, missions, or capabilities.
(2)
Machine-readable format
The term
machine-readable format
means a format that can be easily processed by a computer without human intervention.
862.
Sustainment reviews
(a)
Annual sustainment reviews
Section 2441(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
annually thereafter
before
throughout the life cycle of the weapon system
.
(b)
Submission to Congress of sustainment reviews
Section 2441 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Submission to Congress of sustainment reviews
(1)
The Secretary of each military department shall submit no fewer than ten sustainment reviews required by this section to the congressional defense committees annually. The Secretary of each military department shall select the ten reviews from among the systems with the highest independent cost estimates for the remainder of the life cycle of the program.
(2)
The Secretary shall submit the reviews required under paragraph (1) to the congressional defense committees annually not later than 30 days after submission of the President’s annual budget request to Congress under section 1105 of title 31. The sustainment reviews shall be posted on a publicly available website maintained by the Director of the Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation office and, for those systems with operating and support cost growth, shall include comments from the military departments regarding actions being taken to reduce the operating and support costs. The reviews may include classified appendices, as appropriate.
.
(c)
Comptroller General study
Not later than 180 days after the Secretaries of the military departments post the initial sustainment reviews required under paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of section 2441 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (b) of this section) on a publicly available website as required under paragraph (2) of such subsection (d), the Comptroller General of the United States shall assess steps the military departments are taking to quantify and address operating and support cost growth. The assessment shall include—
(1)
an evaluation of—
(A)
the causes of operating and support cost growth for selected systems covered by the sustainment reviews, as well as any other systems the Comptroller General determines appropriate;
(B)
the extent to which the Department has mitigated operating and support cost growth of these systems; and
(C)
any other issues related to potential operating and support cost growth the Comptroller General determines appropriate; and
(2)
any recommendations of the Comptroller General, including steps the military departments could take to reduce operating and support cost growth for fielded weapon systems, as well as lessons learned to be incorporated in future weapon system acquisitions.
863.
Recommendations for future direct selections
The Secretary of each military department shall provide to the congressional defense committees in the future-years defense program submitted under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, for fiscal year 2022 a list of at least one acquisition program for which it would be appropriate to have a large number of users provide direct assessment of the outcome of a competitive contract award.
864.
Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense acquisition program offers
(a)
In general
Chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2339c.
Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense acquisition program offers
(a)
General
Any covered offeror seeking to be awarded a shipbuilding construction contract as part of a major defense acquisition program with funds from the Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy account shall disclose with its offer and any subsequent offer revisions, including the final proposal revision offer, whether any part of the offeror’s planned contract performance will or is expected to include foreign government subsidized performance, financing, financial guarantees, or tax concessions.
(b)
Disclosure
An offeror shall make a disclosure required under subsection (a) in a format prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy and shall include therein a specific description of the extent to which the offeror’s planned contract performance will include, with or without contingencies, any foreign government subsidized performance, financing, financial guarantees, or tax concessions.
(c)
Congressional notification
Not later than 5 days after awarding a contract described under subsection (a) to an offeror that made a disclosure under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Navy shall notify the congressional defense committees and summarize such disclosure.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered offeror
The term
covered offeror
means any offeror that currently requires or may reasonably be expected to require during the period of contract performance a method to mitigate or negate foreign ownership under subsection (f)(6) of part 2004.34 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
Foreign government subsidized performance
The term
foreign government subsidized performance
means any financial support, materiel, services, or guarantees of support, services, supply, performance, or intellectual property concessions, that may be provided to or for the offeror or the offeror’s Department of Defense customer by a foreign government or entity effectively owned or controlled by a foreign government, which may have the effect of supplementing, supplying, servicing, or reducing the cost or price of an end item, or supporting, financing in whole or in part, or guaranteeing contract performance by the offeror.
(3)
Major defense acquisition program
The term
major defense acquisition program
has the meaning given the term in section 2430 of this title.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 137
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 2339b
the following new item:
2339c. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense acquisition program offers.
.
E
Small business matters
871.
Prompt payment of contractors
Section 2307(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
if a specific payment date is not established by contract
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
if—
and all that follows through
the prime contractor agrees
in clause (ii) and inserting
if the prime contractor agrees or proposes
.
872.
Extension of pilot program for streamlined awards for innovative technology programs
Section 873(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2306a
) is amended by striking
2020
and inserting
2023
.
873.
Reporting requirements
Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(b)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (7)—
(A)
in subparagraph (F), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (G), by adding
and
at the end; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(H)
with respect to a Federal agency to which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies, whether the Federal agency has satisfied the requirement under each applicable subsection for the year covered by the report;
;
(2)
in paragraph (9), by striking
and
at the end;
(3)
in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(11)
with respect to a Federal agency to which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies and that the Administration determines has not satisfied the requirement under either applicable subsection, require the head of that Federal agency to submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report regarding why the Federal agency has not satisfied the requirement.
.
F
Provisions related to Software-Driven capabilities
881.
Inclusion of software in government performance of acquisition functions
(a)
Inclusion of software
Section 1706(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(14)
Program lead software.
.
(b)
Technical amendments
Section 1706 of such title is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
for each major defense acquisition program and each major automated information system program
and inserting
for each acquisition program
; and
(2)
by striking subsection (c).
882.
Balancing security and innovation in software development and acquisition
(a)
Requirements for solicitations of commercial and developmental solutions
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall develop requirements for inclusion in solicitations for both commercial and developmental solutions, and for the evaluation of bids, of appropriate software security criteria, including—
(1)
delineation of what processes were or will be used for a secure software development lifecycle, including management of supply chain and third-party software sources and component risks; and
(2)
an associated vulnerability management plan or tools.
(b)
Security review of code
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall develop processes for security review of code for the purpose of publication and other procedures necessary to fully implement the pilot program required under section 875 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
;
10 U.S.C. 2223
note).
(c)
Coordination with Software Acquisition Pathway efforts
The requirements and procedures required under subsections (a) and (b) shall be developed in conjunction with the Department of Defense's efforts to incorporate input and finalize the procedures described in the Interim Procedures for Operation of the Software Acquisition Pathway.
883.
Comptroller General report on intellectual property acquisition and licensing
(a)
In general
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report evaluating the implementation of the Department of Defense's Instruction on Intellectual Property Acquisition and Licensing (DODI 5010.44), established under section 2322 of title 10, United States Code.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall assess the following:
(1)
The extent to which the Department of Defense is fulfilling the core principles established in DODI 5010.44.
(2)
The extent to which the Defense Acquisition University, Department of Defense components, and program offices are carrying out their responsibilities under DODI 5010.44.
(3)
The progress of the Department in establishing an IP Cadre, including the extent to which such experts are executing their roles and responsibilities.
(4)
The performance of the Department in assessing and demonstrating the implementation of DODI 5010.44, including the effectiveness of the IP Cadre;
(5)
The effect implementation of DODI 5010.44 has had on particular acquisitions;
(6)
Any other matters the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
884.
Pilot program exploring the use of consumption-based solutions to address software-intensive warfighting capability
(a)
Finding
In its final report, the Section 809 Panel recommended the adoption of consumption-based approaches at the Department of Defense, stating,
More things will be sold as a service in the future. XaaS could really mean everything in the context of the Internet of things (IoT). Consumption-based solutions are appearing in many industry sectors, from last mile transportation (e.g., bike shares and electric scooters) to agriculture (e.g., tractor-as-a-service for farmers in developing countries). Most smart phone users are familiar with software updates that provide bug fixes or new features. A more extreme example of technology innovation enabled by the IoT is the ability to deliver physical performance improvements to vehicles through over-the-air software updates… In the not-so-distant future, cloud computing and the IoT will enable consumption-based solution offerings and delivery models that are hard to imagine today.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress—
(1)
that the Department of Defense should take advantage of
as-a-service
or
aaS
approaches in commercial capability development, particularly where the capability is software-defined, and cloud-enabled;
(2)
to support the Department of Defense’s commitment to new approaches to development and acquisition of software;
(3)
that the Department should explore a variety of approaches, to include the use of consumption-based solutions for software-intensive warfighting capability; and
(4)
that, in conducting activities under the pilot program established under this program, the Department should use the Software pathway under the new Adaptive Acquisition Framework.
(c)
In general
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to establish a pilot program to explore the use of consumption-based solutions to address software-intensive warfighting capability.
(d)
Selection of initiatives
The Secretary of each military department and the commander of each combatant command with acquisition authority shall propose for selection by the Secretary of Defense for the pilot program at least one and not more than three initiatives that are well-suited to explore consumption-based solutions to address software-intensive warfighting capability. The initiatives may be new or existing programs of record and shall focus on software-defined or machine-enabled warfighting applications, and may include applications that—
(1)
rapidly analyze sensor data;
(2)
secure warfighter networks, including multi-level security;
(3)
swiftly transport information across various networks and network modalities; or
(4)
otherwise enable joint all-domain operational concepts, including in a contested environment.
(e)
Contract requirements
Contracts for consumption-based solutions entered into pursuant to the pilot program shall provide for—
(1)
the solution to be measurable on a frequent interval customary for the type of solution;
(2)
the contractor to notify the government when consumption reaches 75 percent and 90 percent of the contract funded amount; and
(3)
discretion for the contracting officer to add new features or capabilities without additional competition for the contract, provided that the amount of the new features or capabilities does not exceed 25 percent of the total contract value.
(f)
Duration of initiatives
Each initiative carried out under the pilot program shall be carried out during the three-year period following selection of the initiative.
(g)
Monitoring and evaluation of pilot program
The Director of the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall establish continuous monitoring to evaluate the pilot program established under subsection (c), including collecting data on cost, schedule, and performance from the program office, the user community, and the contractors.
(h)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than January 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on initiatives selected for the pilot program, roles and responsibilities for implementing the pilot program, and the monitoring and evaluation approach for the pilot.
(2)
Progress report
Not later than April 15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress of the initiatives.
(3)
Final report
Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the cost, schedule, and performance outcomes of the initiatives. The report shall also include lessons learned about the use of consumption-based solutions for software-intensive capabilities and any recommendations for statutory or regulatory changes to facilitate their use.
(i)
Consumption-based solution defined
In this section, the term
consumption-based solution
means any combination of software, hardware or equipment, and labor or services that provides a seamless capability that is metered and billed based on actual usage and predetermined pricing per resource unit, and includes the ability to rapidly scale capacity up or down.
G
Other matters
891.
Safeguarding defense-sensitive United States intellectual property, technology, and other data and information
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish, enforce, and track actions being taken to protect defense-sensitive United States intellectual property, technology, and other data and information, including hardware and software, from acquisition by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
(b)
List of critical technology
The Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a list of critical national security technology.
(c)
Restrictions on employment of defense industrial base employees with Chinese companies
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for mechanisms to restrict employees or former employees of the defense industrial base that contribute to the technology referenced in subsection (b) from working directly for companies wholly owned by, or under the direction of, the Government of the Peoples Republic of China.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Department of Defense report
Not later than May 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on progress in implementing the measures described in subsections (a) through (c).
(2)
Comptroller General report
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report reviewing the report submitted under paragraph (1) and providing an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures implemented under this section.
(3)
Form
The reports required under this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain classified annexes.
892.
Domestic comparative testing activities
Section 2350a(g)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
and conventional defense equipment, munitions, and technologies manufactured and developed domestically
after
in subsection (a)(2)
.
893.
Repeal of apprenticeship program
(a)
In general
Section 2870 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 865 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is repealed.
(b)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 2870.
(2)
Obsolete provision
Section 865 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is repealed.
IX
Department of Defense Organization and Management
A
Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
901.
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict and related matters
(a)
In general
(1)
Clarification of chain of administrative command
Section 138(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (B) as subclauses (I), (II), and (III), respectively;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively;
(C)
by inserting
(A)
after
(2)
;
(D)
in clause (i) of subparagraph (A), as redesignated by this paragraph, by inserting before the period at the end the following:
through the administrative chain of command specified in section 167(f) of this title;
and
(E)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
In the discharge of the responsibilities specified in subparagraph (A)(i), the Assistant Secretary is immediately subordinate to the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense. No officer below the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may intervene to exercise authority, direction, or control over the Assistant Secretary in the discharge of such responsibilities.
.
(2)
Technical amendment
Subparagraph (A) of such section, as redesignated by paragraph (2), is further amended in the matter preceding clause (i), as so redesignated, by striking
section 167(j)
and inserting
section 167(k)
.
(b)
Fulfillment of special operations responsibilities
(1)
In general
Section 139b of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
139b.
Secretariat for Special Operations; Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council
(a)
Secretariat for Special Operations
(1)
In general
In order to fulfill the responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict specified in section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title, there shall be within the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict an office to be known as the
Secretariat for Special Operations
.
(2)
Purpose
The purpose of the Secretariat is to assist the Assistant Secretary in exercising authority, direction, and control with respect to the special operations-peculiar administration and support of the special operations command, including the readiness and organization of special operations forces, resources and equipment, and civilian personnel as specified in such section.
(3)
Director
The Director of the Secretariat for Special Operations shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense from among individuals qualified to serve as the Director. The Director shall have a grade of Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense.
(4)
Administrative chain of command
For purposes of the support of the Secretariat for the Assistant Secretary in the fulfillment of the responsibilities referred to in paragraph (1), the administrative chain of command is as specified in section 167(f) of this title. No officer below the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense (other than the Assistant Secretary) may intervene to exercise authority, direction, or control over the Secretariat in its support of the Assistant Secretary in the discharge of such responsibilities.
(b)
Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council
(1)
In general
In order to fulfill the responsibilities specified in section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title, there shall also be within the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict a team known as the
Special Operation Policy and Oversight Council
. The team is lead by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, or the Assistant Secretary's designee..
(2)
Purpose
The purpose of the Council is to integrate the functional activities of the headquarters of the Department of Defense in order to most efficiently and effectively provide for special operations forces and capabilities. In fulfilling this purpose, the Council shall develop and continuously improve policy, joint processes, and procedures that facilitate the development, acquisition, integration, employment, and sustainment of special operations forces and capabilities.
(3)
Membership
The Council shall include the following:
(A)
The Assistant Secretary, who shall act as leader of the Council.
(B)
Appropriate senior representatives of each of the following:
(i)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
(ii)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Management and Support.
(iii)
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
(iv)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
(v)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
(vi)
The General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
(vii)
The other Assistant Secretaries of Defense under the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
(viii)
The military departments.
(ix)
The Joint Staff.
(x)
The United States Special Operations Command.
(xi)
Such other officials or Agencies, elements, or components of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
(4)
Operation
The Council shall operate continuously.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 139b and inserting the following new item:
139b. Secretariat for Special Operations; Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council.
.
(c)
DoD directive on responsibilities of ASD SOLIC
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall publish a Department of Defense directive establishing policy and procedures related to the exercise of authority, direction, and control of all special-operations peculiar administrative matters relating to the organization, training, and equipping of special operations forces by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict as specified by section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a)(1).
(2)
Matters for including
The directive required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A specification of responsibilities for coordination on matters affecting the organization, training, and equipping of special operations forces.
(B)
An identification and specification of updates to applicable documents and instructions of the Department of Defense.
(C)
Mechanisms to ensure the inclusion of the Assistant Secretary in all Departmental governance forums affecting the organization, training, and equipping of special operations forces.
(D)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Applicability
The directive required by paragraph (1) shall apply throughout the Department of Defense to all components of the Department of Defense.
(4)
Limitation on availability of certain funding pending publication
Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the date that is 15 days after the date on which the Secretary publishes the directive required by paragraph (1).
902.
Redesignation and codification in law of Office of Economic Adjustment
(a)
Redesignation
(1)
In general
The Office of Economic Adjustment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense is hereby redesignated as the
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation
.
(2)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the office referred to in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a reference to the
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation
.
(b)
Codification in law
(1)
In general
Chapter 4
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
146.
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation
(a)
In general
There is an Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
(b)
Director
The Office shall be headed by the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, who shall be assigned to such position by the Under Secretary from among civilian employees of the Department of Defense who are qualified to serve in the position.
(c)
Functions
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary, the Office shall—
(1)
in cooperation with the other components, of the Department of Defense be the primary office within the Department for the provision of assistance to States, counties, municipalities, regions, and communities intended to—
(A)
foster greater cooperation with military installations in order to enhance the military mission, achieve facility and infrastructure savings and reduced operating costs, address encroachment and compatible land use issues, support military families, and increase military, civilian, and industrial readiness and resiliency; and
(B)
address impacts caused by changes in defense programs, including basing decisions, defense industry expansions or contractions, increases or reductions in Federal civilian or contractor personnel, and expansions, realignments, and closures of military installations;
(2)
provide support to the Economic Adjustment Committee within the Executive Office of the President, or any successor interagency coordination body; and
(3)
perform such other functions as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
(d)
Annual report to Congress
Not later than June 1 each year, the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the activities of the Office during the preceding year, including the assistance provided pursuant to subsection (c)(1) during such year.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
146. Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation.
.
903.
Modernization of process used by the Department of Defense to identify, task, and manage Congressional reporting requirements
(a)
Analysis required
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs shall conduct an analysis of the process used by the Department of Defense to identify reports to Congress required by annual national defense authorization Acts, assign responsibility for preparation of such reports, and manage the completion and delivery of such reports to Congress for the purpose of identifying mechanisms to optimize and otherwise modernize the process.
(b)
Consultation
The Assistant Secretary shall conduct the analysis required by subsection (a) with the assistance of and in consultation with the Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense and the Director of the Defense Digital Service.
(c)
Elements
The analysis required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A business process reengineering of the process described in subsection (a).
(2)
An assessment of applicable commercially available analytics tools, technologies, and services in connection with such business process reengineering.
(3)
Such other actions as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the analysis.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than November 15, 2020, the Assistant Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the results of the analysis required by subsection (a). The briefing shall address the following:
(1)
The results of the analysis and of the business process reengineering described in subsection (c)(1).
(2)
A description of the actions being taken, and to be taken, to optimize and otherwise improve the process described in subsection (a).
(3)
Such recommendations for administrative and legislative action as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate the optimization and improvement of the process described in subsection (a) as a result of the analysis and the business process reengineering.
(4)
Such other matters as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate in connection with the analysis, the business process reengineering and the optimization and improvement of the process described in subsection (a).
904.
Inclusion of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau as an advisor to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council
Section 181(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the heading, by inserting
and Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau
after
of Staff
;
(2)
by striking
of the Chiefs of Staff
and inserting
of—
(A)
the Chiefs of Staff
;
(3)
by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
the Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau when matters involving non-Federalized National Guard capabilities in support of homeland defense or civil support missions are under consideration by the Council.
.
905.
Assignment of responsibility for the Arctic region within the Office of the Secretary of Defense
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs shall assign responsibility for the Arctic region to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Western Hemisphere or any other Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
B
Department of Defense Management Reform
911.
Termination of position of Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
(a)
Termination
(1)
In general
The position of Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense is terminated, effective on the date specified by the Secretary of Defense, which date may not be later than September 30, 2022.
(2)
Notice
The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a notice on the effective date specified pursuant to paragraph (1).
(b)
Conforming repeal of establishing authority
(1)
In general
Section 132a of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(2)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 132a.
(3)
Effective date
The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on the effective date specified pursuant to subsection (a)(1).
912.
Report on assignment of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of Chief Management Officer to other officers or employees of the Department of Defense
(a)
Report
Not later than 45 days before the effective date specified pursuant to section 911(a)(1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
(1)
The position and title of each officer or employee of the Department of Defense, and the component of such officer or employee, in whom the Secretary will vest responsibility and authority to perform responsibilities and duties, and exercise authorities, assigned to the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, whether by statute or by directive, instruction, policy, or practice of the Department of Defense, on the termination of the position of Chief Management Officer under section 911.
(2)
A description of the responsibilities, duties, and authorities, if any, assigned to the Chief Management Officer by statute that the Secretary recommends for discontinuation or modification, and a justification for such recommendation.
(3)
A description of the responsibilities, duties, and authorities, if any, assigned to the Chief Management Officer by directive, instruction, policy, or practice of the Department that the Secretary recommends for discontinuation or modification, and a justification for such recommendation.
(4)
A description of the general process and timeline for the effective transfer of each responsibility, duty, and authority assigned to the Chief Management Officer by statute or by policy, instruction, or practice of the Department to the officer or employee in whom such responsibility, duty, and authority will be vested as described in paragraph (1).
(5)
A description of the manner and timeline in which the resources of the Chief Management Officer, including funding and human capital, will be realigned or repurposed to other organizations in the Office of the Secretary of Defense or to other components of the Department.
(6)
A description of the general process and timeline for the assignment of responsibility of each issue under the jurisdiction of the Chief Management Officer current identified by the Comptroller General of the United States as
high risk
to an officer or employee in the Department who is specifically charged by the Secretary to initiate and sustain progress toward resolution of such issue.
(7)
Such recommendations (including recommendations for legislative action) as the Secretary considers appropriate for additional authorities and resources (including funding and human capital resources) necessary to ensure that each officer or employee, in whom the Secretary vests responsibility and authority as described in paragraph (1) is capable of exercising such responsibility and authority effectively.
(8)
Such other matters in connection with the termination of the position of Chief Management Officer, and the transition of the responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief Management Officer in connection with such termination, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Vesting of certain responsibilities, duties, and authorities in particular officers
In setting forth matters under paragraph (1) of subsection (a), the report required by that subsection shall address, in particular, the following:
(1)
Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief Management Officer in the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the Deputy Secretary's capacity as the Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Defense for purposes of functions specified in section 1123 of title 31, United States Code.
(2)
Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief Management Officer in the Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense under section 142a of title 10, United States Code (as added by section 913 of this Act), for purposes of functions specified in section 1124 of title 31, United States Code.
(c)
Other responsibilities, duties and authorities
In addition to any other responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief Management Officer, the report required by subsection (a) shall specifically address responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief Management Officer with respect to the following:
(1)
Establishment of policies for, and the direction and management of, enterprise business operations and shared business services of the Department, as set forth in section 132a(b) of title 10, United States Code, and section 921(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
10 U.S.C. 2222
note).
(2)
Exercise of authority, direction, and control over the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities for shared business services and budget review, assessment, certification, and reporting, as set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 132a of title 10, United States Code, and section 192 of that title.
(3)
Minimization of duplication of efforts, maximization of efficiency and effectiveness, and establishment of metrics for performance among and for all components of the Department, as set forth in section 132a(b) of title 10, United States Code.
(4)
Issuance and maintenance of guidance on covered defense business systems, development and maintenance of the defense business enterprise architecture, exercise of authorities and responsibilities with respect to common enterprise data, leadership of and matters within the Defense Business Council, and service as the appropriate approval official in the case of certain covered defense business systems and programs, as set forth in section 2222 of title 10, United States Code.
(5)
The Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan, as set forth in section 240b of title 10, United States Code.
(6)
Receipt of audit reports, as set forth in section 240d of title 10, United States Code.
(7)
Discharge by the Department of the annual reviews required by section 11319 of title 40, United States Code.
(8)
Business transformation efforts of the defense commissary system and the exchange stores system, as set forth in section 631 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(9)
Analysis of Department business management and operations datasets, as set forth in section 922 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
10 U.S.C. 2222
note).
(10)
Reviews, reports, and other actions required by sections 924, 925, 926, 927, and 1624 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, to the extent such reviews, reports, and actions have not been completed as of the date of the report under subsection (a).
(11)
Science and technology activities in support of business systems information technology acquisition as set forth in section 217 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 2445a
note).
(12)
Relationships with the Chief Management Officers of the military departments, and the development and update of a strategic management plan for the Department, as set forth in section 904 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
) and the amendments made by that section.
913.
Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense
(a)
Performance Improvement Officer
(1)
In general
Chapter 4
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 142
the following new section:
142a.
Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense
(a)
There is an Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense, who is designated as provided in section 1124(a)(1) of title 31.
(b)
The Performance Improvement Officer shall—
(1)
perform the duties and responsibilities, and exercise the powers set forth in section 1124 of title 31; and
(2)
perform such additional duties and responsibilities, and exercise such other powers, as the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
(c)
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Performance Improvement Officer reports, without intervening authority, directly to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in the Deputy Secretary's role as the Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Defense under section 1123 of title 31.
(d)
The Performance Improvement Officer may communicate views on matters within the responsibility of the Officer directly to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, without obtaining the approval or concurrence of any other officer in the Department of Defense.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of section at the beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 142 the following new item:
142a. Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense.
.
(b)
Effective date
(1)
In general
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on such date as the Secretary of Defense shall specify for purposes of this section, which date may not be later than one day before the effective date specified by the Secretary pursuant to section 911(a)(1).
(2)
Notice
The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a notice on the effective date specified pursuant to paragraph (1).
914.
Assignment of certain responsibilities and duties to particular officers of the Department of Defense
(a)
Certain responsibilities and duties of Deputy Secretary of Defense
(1)
Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Defense
Section 132 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
(c)
(1)
In accordance with section 1123 of title 31, the Deputy Secretary performs the duties, has the responsibilities, and exercises the powers of the Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Defense.
(2)
Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary shall supervise the Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense in the Officer's performance of duties and responsibilities specified in section 142a of this title.
.
(2)
Designation of priority defense business systems
Section 2222(h)(5)(B) of such title is amended by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or such other officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may designate,
.
(b)
Periodic reviews of Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities in connection with business enterprise reform
Section 192(c) of such title is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (3), as redesignated by section 923(a)(1) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1930), as paragraph (4);
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2), as added by section 923(a)(2) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively;
(3)
in paragraph (2), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this subsection—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or an officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary
;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
the officer conducting such review
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
the Secretary
; and
(4)
in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking
the Chief Management Officer
each place it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting
the officer conducting such review
.
(c)
Responsibility of Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) for Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan
Subsection (a) of section 240b of such title is amended to read as follows:
(a)
In general
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, together with such other officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense may designate, shall maintain a plan to be known as the
Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan
.
.
(d)
Performance Improvement Officer functions for defense business systems
Section 2222 of such title is amended—
(1)
in subsection (e)(6)(C), by inserting
and the Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense
after
The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation
; and
(2)
in subsection (f)(2)(B)—
(A)
by redesignating clauses (i) through (iii) as clauses (ii) through (iv), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting before clause (ii), as redesignated by paragraph (1), the following new clause (i):
(i)
The Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense.
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
915.
Assignment of responsibilities and duties of Chief Management Officer to officers or employees of the Department of Defense to be designated
(a)
Title 10, United States Code
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
(1)
In section 240d(d)(1)(A), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
any other officer or employee of the Department of Defense that the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense may designate for purposes of this section
.
(2)
Section 2222 is amended—
(A)
in subsection (c)(2)—
(i)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense,
; and
(ii)
by striking
and the Chief Management Officer of each of the military departments
and inserting
the Chief Management Officer of each of the military departments, and other appropriate officers or employees of the Department and its components
;
(B)
in subsection (e)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officers or employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary shall designate
;
(ii)
in paragraph (6)—
(I)
in subparagraph (A)—
(aa)
by striking
The Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
Such officers of the Department of Defense as the Secretary shall designate
; and
(bb)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
such officers
; and
(II)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
The Chief Management Officer and the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)
and inserting
The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and such other officers of the Department as the Secretary shall designate
;
(C)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
the Chief Management Office and the Chief Information Office of the Department of Defense
and inserting
the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense and such other officers or employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary may designate
; and
(D)
in subsection (g)(2), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
each place it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B)(ii) and inserting
an officer or employee of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary
.
(b)
Title 40, United States Code
Section 11319(d)(4) of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense (of any successor to such Officer)
and inserting
the officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense for such purpose
.
(c)
Public Law 116–92
Section 631(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense may designate
.
(d)
Public Law 115–232
The John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
) is amended as follows:
(1)
In section 921(b)(1) (
10 U.S.C. 2222
note)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer or employee of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
;
(B)
in subparagraph (B)—
(i)
in the subparagraph heading, by striking
CMO
;
(ii)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer
the first place it appears and inserting
the Secretary shall, acting through such officer or employee of the Department as the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary shall designate
; and
(iii)
by striking
by the Chief Management Officer
.
(2)
In section 922 (
10 U.S.C. 2222
note)—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
The Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
An officer or employee of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in paragraph (1)—
(I)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
The Chief Management Officer
and inserting
The officer or employee designated pursuant to subsection (a)
; and
(II)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
The Chief Management Officer
and inserting
such officer or employee
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
the Chief Management Officer shall take appropriate actions
and inserting
all appropriate actions shall be taken
.
(3)
In section 924 (
10 U.S.C. 191
note)—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
;
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a)
; and
(ii)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
such officer
; and
(C)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer
the first place it appears and inserting
the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a)
; and
(ii)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer
the second place it appears and inserting
such officer
.
(4)
In section 925(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
.
(5)
In section 926(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
.
(6)
In section 927 (132 Stat. 1933)—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
; and
(B)
in subsections (c) and (d), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
each place it appears and inserting
the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a)
.
(7)
In section 1624(a) (
10 U.S.C. 2222
note)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
;
(B)
by striking
the Chief Management Officer
each place it appears in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) and inserting
the officer designated pursuant to paragraph (1)
; and
(C)
by inserting
and Security
after
for Intelligence
each place it appears.
(e)
Public Law 114–92
The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
) is amended as follows:
(1)
In section 217—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
the Deputy Chief Management Officer, and the Chief Information Officer
and inserting
the Chief Information Officer, and any other officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense for such purpose
; and
(B)
in subsections (b), (f)(1)(A)(ii), and (f)(2)(B), by striking
the Deputy Chief Management Officer
each place it appears and inserting
any officer designated pursuant to subsection (a)
.
(2)
In section 881(a) (
10 U.S.C. 2302
note), by striking
the Deputy Chief Management Officer,
.
(f)
Public Law 110–81
Section 904 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–81
; 122 Stat. 273)) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(4), by striking
the Chief Management Officer and Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate
; and
(2)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
such officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense may designate for purposes of this subsection
; and
(B)
in paragraph (3), by striking
the Chief Management Officer
and inserting
the officer designated pursuant to paragraph (1)
.
(g)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
916.
Definition of enterprise business operations for title 10, United States Code
Effective on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1) of this Act, section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(9)
Enterprise business operations
The term
enterprise business operations
—
(A)
means activities that constitute cross-cutting business operations used by multiple components of the Department of Defense, but excludes activities that are directly tied to a single military department or Department of Defense component; and
(B)
includes business-support functions designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense, including aspects of financial management, healthcare, acquisition and procurement, supply chain and logistics, certain information technology, real property, and human resources operations.
.
917.
Annual report on enterprise business operations of the Department of Defense
(a)
Annual report required
Not later than March 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that includes the following:
(1)
Each proposed budget for the enterprise business operations of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field Activity for the fiscal year beginning in the year in which such report is submitted.
(2)
An identification of each proposed budget described in paragraph (1) that does not achieve required levels of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business operations.
(3)
A discussion of the actions that the Secretary proposes to take, including recommendations for legislative action that the Secretary considers appropriate, to address inadequate levels of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business operations achieved by the proposed budgets described in paragraph (1).
(4)
Any additional comments that the Secretary considers appropriate regarding inadequate levels of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business operations achieved by the proposed budgets described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Submittal
The Secretary may submit a report required by subsection (a) through the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(c)
Enterprise business operations defined
In this section, the term
enterprise business operations
has the meaning given that term in paragraph (9) of section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code (as added by section 916 of this Act).
918.
Conforming amendments
(a)
Title 10, United States Code
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
(1)
In section 131(b)—
(A)
by striking paragraph (2);
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (9) as paragraphs (2) through (8), respectively; and
(C)
in paragraph (7), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
(i)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (F) as subparagraphs (B) through (G), respectively; and
(ii)
by inserting before subparagraph (B), as redesignated by clause (i), the following new subparagraph (A):
(A)
The Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense.
.
(2)
In section 133a(c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense
and inserting
and the Deputy Secretary of Defense
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
the Chief Management Officer,
.
(3)
In section 133b(c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense,
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
the Chief Management Officer,
.
(4)
In section 137a(d), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense,
.
(5)
In section 138(d), by striking
the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense,
.
(6)
In section 240b(b)(1)(C)(ii), by striking
, the Chief Management Officer,
.
(b)
Executive Schedule Level II
Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
C
Space Force Matters
I
Amendments to Integrate the Space Force Into Law
931.
Clarification of Space Force and Chief of Space Operations authorities
(a)
Composition of Space Force
Section 9081 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection (b):
(b)
Composition
The Space Force consists of—
(1)
the Regular Space Force;
(2)
all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the Space Force, including those not assigned to units, necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate mobilization for the national defense in the event of a national emergency; and
(3)
all Space Force units and other Space Force organizations, including installations and supporting and auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements.
.
(b)
Functions
Section 9081 of title 10, United States Code, is further amended—
(1)
by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Functions
The Space Force shall be organized, trained, and equipped to—
(1)
provide freedom of operation for the United States in, from, and to space;
(2)
conduct space operations; and
(3)
protect the interests of the United States in space.
; and
(2)
by striking subsection (d).
(c)
Clarification of Chief of Space Operations authorities
Section 9082 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
general officers of the Air Force
and inserting
general, flag, or equivalent officers of the Space Force
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(3)
The President may appoint an officer as Chief of Space Operations only if—
(A)
the officer has had significant experience in joint duty assignments; and
(B)
such experience includes at least one full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(d) of this title) as a general, flag, or equivalent officer of the Space Force.
(4)
The President may waive paragraph (3) in the case of an officer if the President determines such action is necessary in the national interest.
;
(2)
in subsection (b), by striking
grade of general
and inserting
grade in the Space Force equivalent to the grade of general in the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, or admiral in the Navy
; and
(3)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
perform duties prescribed for the Chief of Space Operations by sections 171 and 2547 of this title and other provision of law; and
.
(d)
Repeal of officer career field for space
Section 9083 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
(e)
Regular Space Force
Chapter 908
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (d), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section 9083:
9083.
Regular Space Force: composition
(a)
In general
The Regular Space Force is the component of the Space Force that consists of persons whose continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of the Regular Space Force.
(b)
Composition
The Regular Space Force includes—
(1)
the officers and enlisted members of the Regular Space Force; and
(2)
the retired officers and enlisted members of the Regular Space Force.
.
(f)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 908
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 9083 and inserting the following new item:
9083. Regular Space Force: composition.
.
931A.
Office of the Chief of Space Operations
(a)
In general
Chapter 908
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 931(e) of this Act, is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating section 9083 as section 9085; and
(2)
by inserting after section 9082 the following new sections:
9083.
Office of the Chief of Space Operations: function; composition
(a)
Function
There is in the executive part of the Department of the Air Force an Office of the Chief of Space Operations to assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out the responsibilities of the Secretary.
(b)
Composition
The Office of the Chief of Space Operations is composed of the following:
(1)
The Chief of Space Operations.
(2)
Such other offices and officials as may be established by law or as the Secretary of the Air Force may establish or designate.
(3)
Other members of the Space Force and Air Force assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
(4)
Civilian employees in the Department of the Air Force assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
(c)
Organization
Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by law, the Office of the Chief of Space Operations shall be organized in such manner, and the members of the Office of the Chief of Space Operations shall perform such duties and have such titles, as the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
9084.
Office of the Chief of Space Operations: general duties
(a)
Professional assistance
The Office of the Chief of Space Operations shall furnish professional assistance to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Space Operations, and other personnel of the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
(b)
Authorities
Under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Office of the Chief of Space Operations shall—
(1)
subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 9014 of this title, prepare for such employment of the Space Force, and for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping (including research and development), training, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining of the Space Force, as will assist in the execution of any power, duty, or function of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Space Operations;
(2)
investigate and report upon the efficiency of the Space Force and its preparation to support military operations by commanders of the combatant commands;
(3)
prepare detailed instructions for the execution of approved plans and supervise the execution of those plans and instructions;
(4)
as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Space Operations, coordinate the action of organizations of the Space Force; and
(5)
perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force.
.
(b)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 908 of such title, as amended by section 931(f) of this Act, is further amended by striking the item related to section 9083 and inserting the following the following new items:
9083. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: function; composition.
9084. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: general duties.
9085. Regular Space Force: composition.
.
932.
Amendments to Department of the Air Force provisions in title 10, United States Code
(a)
Subtitle
(1)
Heading
The heading of subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
D
Air Force and Space Force
.
(2)
Table of subtitles
The table of subtitles at the beginning of such title is amended is amended by striking the item relating to subtitle D and inserting the following new item:
D.
Air Force and Space Force
9011
.
(b)
Organization
(1)
Secretary of the Air Force
Section 9013 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
in subsection (f), by inserting
and officers of the Space Force
after
Officers of the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (g)(1), by inserting
, members of the Space Force,
after
members of the Air Force
.
(2)
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force
Section 9014 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following new paragraph (4)
(4)
The Inspector General of the Department of the Air Force.
;
(B)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and the Air Staff
and inserting
, the Air Staff, and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
;
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
or the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
after
the Air Staff
;
(iii)
in paragraph (3), by striking
to the Chief of Staff and to the Air Staff
and all that follows through the end and inserting
to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Space Operations and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations, and shall ensure that each such office or entity provides the Chief of Staff and Chief of Space Operations such staff support as the Chief concerned considers necessary to perform the Chief’s duties and responsibilities.
; and
(iv)
in paragraph (4)—
(I)
by inserting
and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
after
the Air Staff
; and
(II)
by inserting
and the Chief of Space Operations
after
Chief of Staff
;
(C)
in subsection (d)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and the Air Staff
and inserting
, the Air Staff, and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
;
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
after
the Air Staff
; and
(iii)
in paragraph (4), by striking
to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and to the Air Staff
and all that follows through the end and inserting
to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Space Operations and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations, and shall ensure that each such office or entity provides the Chief of Staff and Chief of Space Operations such staff support as the Chief concerned considers necessary to perform the Chief’s duties and responsibilities.
; and
(D)
in subsection (e)—
(i)
by striking
and the Air Staff
and inserting
, the Air Staff, and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
; and
(ii)
by striking
to the other
and inserting
to any of the others
.
(3)
Secretary of the Air Force: successors to duties
Section 9017(4) of such title is amended by inserting before the period the following:
of the Air Force and the Chief of Space Operations, in the order prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force and approved by the Secretary of Defense
.
(4)
Inspector General
Section 9020 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
by inserting
Department of the
after
Inspector General of the
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or the general, flag, or equivalent officers of the Space Force
after
general officers of the Air Force
;
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
or the Chief of Staff
and inserting
, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or the Chief of Space Operations
;
(ii)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
Department of the
before
Air Force
; and
(iii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or the Chief of Staff
and inserting
, the Chief of Staff, or the Chief of Space Operations
; and
(C)
in subsection (e), by inserting
or the Space Force
before
for a tour of duty
.
(5)
The Air Staff: function; composition
Section 9031(b)(8) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
of the Air Force
.
(6)
Surgeon General: appointment; duties
Section 9036(b) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force on all health and medical matters of the Air Force
and inserting
Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Chief of Space Operations on all health and medical matters of the Air Force and the Space Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
by inserting
and the Space Force
after
of the Air Force
the first place it appears; and
(ii)
by inserting
and members of the Space Force
after
of the Air Force
the second place it appears.
(7)
Judge Advocate General, deputy judge advocate general: appointment; duties
Section 9037 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (e)(2)(B), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
of the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
and inserting
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or the Chief of Space Operations
.
(8)
Chief of chaplains: appointment; duties
Section 9039(a) of such title is amended by striking
in the Air Force
and inserting
for the Air Force and the Space Force
.
(9)
Provision of certain professional functions for the space force
Section 9063 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsections (a) through (i), by striking
in the Air Force
each place it appears and inserting
in the Air Force and the Space Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (i), as amended by subparagraph (A), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
members of the Air Force
.
(c)
Personnel
(1)
Gender-free basis for acceptance of original enlistments
(A)
In general
Section 9132 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9132 is amended to read as follows:
9132.
Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free basis for acceptance of original enlistments
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 913 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9132 and inserting the following new item:
9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free basis for acceptance of original enlistments.
.
(2)
Reenlistment after service as an officer
(A)
In general
Section 9138 of such title is amended in subsection (a)—
(i)
by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
both places it appears; and
(ii)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
officer of the Air Force
both places it appears.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9132 is amended to read as follows:
9132.
Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 913 of such title, as amended by paragraph (1)(C), is further by striking the item relating to section 9138 and inserting the following new item:
9138. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer.
.
(3)
Appointments in the Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force
(A)
In general
Section 9160 of such title is amended—
(i)
by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or the Space Force
before the period.
(B)
Chapter heading
The heading of chapter 915 of such title is amended to read as follows:
915
Appointments in the Regular Air Force and the Regular Space Force
.
(C)
Tables of chapters
The table of chapters at the beginning of subtitle D of such title, and at the beginning of part II of subtitle D of such title, are each amended by striking the item relating to chapter 915 and inserting the following new item:
915.
Appointments in the Regular Air Force and the Regular Space Force
9151
.
(4)
Retired commissioned officers: status
Section 9203 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(5)
Duties: chaplains; assistance required of commanding officers
Section 9217(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(6)
Rank: commissioned officers serving under temporary appointments
Section 9222 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
both places it appears.
(7)
Requirement of exemplary conduct
Section 9233 of such title is amended—
(A)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
and in the Space Force
after
the Air Force
; and
(B)
in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
or the Space Force, respectively
after
the Air Force
.
(8)
Enlisted members: officers not to use as servants
Section 9239 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
both places it appears.
(9)
Presentation of United States flag upon retirement
Section 9251(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(10)
Service credit: regular enlisted members; service as an officer to be counted as enlisted service
Section 9252 of such title is amended—
(A)
by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
; and
(B)
by inserting
in the Space Force,
after
in the Air Force,
.
(11)
When Secretary may require hospitalization
Section 9263 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(12)
Decorations and awards
(A)
In general
Chapter 937 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
each place it appears in the following provisions:
(i)
Section 9271.
(ii)
Section 9272.
(iii)
Section 9273.
(iv)
Section 9276.
(v)
Section 9281 other than the first place it appears in subsection (a).
(vi)
Section 9286(a) other than the first place it appears.
(B)
Medal of honor; Air Force Cross; distinguished-service medal: delegation of power to award
Section 9275 of such title is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, or to an equivalent commander of a separate space force or higher unit in the field
.
(13)
Twenty years or more: regular or reserve commissioned officers
Section 9311(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
officer of the Air Force
.
(14)
Twenty to thirty years: enlisted members
Section 9314 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(15)
Thirty years or more: regular enlisted members
Section 9317 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(16)
Thirty years or more: regular commissioned officers
Section 9318 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(17)
Forty years or more: air force officers
(A)
In general
Section 9324 of such title is amended in subsections (a) and (b) by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9324 is amended to read as follows:
9324.
Forty years or more: Air Force officers and Space Force officers
.
(C)
Table of sections amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 941 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9324 and inserting the following new item:
9324. Forty years or more: Air Force officers and Space Force officers.
.
(18)
Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; enlisted members
Section 9325(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(19)
Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; regular and reserve commissioned officers
(A)
In general
Section 9326(a) of such title is amended—
(i)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
of the Air Force
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Such section 9326(a) is further amended by striking
his
each place it appears and inserting
the officer's
.
(20)
Computation of retired pay: law applicable
Section 9329 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(21)
Retired grade
(A)
Higher grade after 30 years of service: warrant officers and enlisted members
Section 9344 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
; and
(ii)
in subsection (b)—
(I)
in paragraphs (1) and (3), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
each place it appears; and
(II)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
.
(B)
Restoration to former grade: retired warrant officers and enlisted members
Section 9345 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(C)
Retired lists
Section 9346 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
;
(ii)
in subsection (b)(1), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
, or for commissioned officers of the Space Force other than of the Regular Space Force
; and
(iii)
in subsections (b)(2) and (c), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(22)
Recomputation of retired pay to reflect advancement on retired list
Section 9362(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(23)
Fatality reviews
Section 9381(a) of such title is amended in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(d)
Training
(1)
Members of Air Force: detail as students, observers, and investigators at educational institutions, industrial plants, and hospitals
(A)
In general
Section 9401 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a), by inserting
and members of the Space Force
after
members of the Air Force
;
(ii)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
;
(iii)
in subsection (c),by inserting
or Reserve of the Space Force
after
Reserve of the Air Force
;
(iv)
in subsection (e), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
; and
(v)
in subsection (f)—
(I)
by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
; and
(II)
by inserting
or the Space Force Reserve
after
the reserve components of the Air Force
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Subsection (c) of such section 9401 is further amended—
(i)
by striking
his
and inserting
the Reserve's
; and
(ii)
by striking
he
and inserting
the Reserve
,
(C)
Heading
The heading of such section 9401 is amended to read as follows:
9401.
Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, observers and investigators at educational institutions, industrial plants, and hospitals
.
(D)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9401 and inserting the following new item:
9401. Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, observers, and investigators at educational institutions, industrial plants, and hospitals.
.
(2)
Enlisted members of Air Force: schools
(A)
In general
Section 9402 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a)—
(I)
in the first sentence, by inserting
and enlisted members of the Space Force
after
members of the Air Force
; and
(II)
in the third sentence, by inserting
and Space Force officers
after
Air Force officers
; and
(ii)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
each place it appears.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9402 is amended to read as follows:
9402.
Enlisted members Air Force or Space Force: schools
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9402 and inserting the following new item:
9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools.
.
(3)
Service schools: leaves of absence for instructors
Section 9406 of such title is amended by inserting
or Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(4)
Degree granting authority for United States Air Force Institute of Technology
Section 9414(d)(1) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
needs of the Air Force
.
(5)
United States Air Force Institute of Technology: administration
Section 9414b(a)(2) is amended—
(A)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
each place it appears; and
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
or the equivalent grade in the Space Force
after
brigadier general
.
(6)
Community College of the Air Force: associate degrees
Section 9415 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
in the Air Force
and inserting
in the Department of the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
;
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by striking
other than
and all that follows through the end and inserting
other than the Air Force or the Space Force who are serving as instructors at Department of the Air Force training schools.
; and
(iii)
in paragraph (3), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(7)
Air Force Academy establishment; superintendent; faculty
Section 9431(a) of such title is amended by striking
Air Force cadets
and inserting
cadets
.
(8)
Air Force Academy superintendent; faculty: appointment and detail
Section 9433(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(9)
Air Force Academy permanent professors; director of admissions
(A)
In general
Section 9436 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a)—
(I)
in the first sentence, by inserting
in the Air Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force
after
colonel
;
(II)
in the second sentence, by inserting
and a permanent professor appointed from the Regular Space Force has the grade equivalent to the grade of colonel in the Regular Air Force
after
grade of colonel
; and
(III)
in the third sentence, by inserting
in the Air Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force
after
lieutenant colonel
; and
(ii)
in subsection (b)—
(I)
in the first sentence,
in the Air Force or the equivalent grade in the Space Force
after
colonel
each place it appears; and
(II)
in the second sentence, by inserting
and a person appointed from the Regular Space Force has the grade equivalent to the grade of colonel in the Regular Air Force
after
grade of colonel
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Subsections (a) and (b) of such section 9436 are further amended by striking
he
each place it appears and inserting
such person
.
(10)
Cadets: appointment; numbers, territorial distribution
(A)
In general
Section 9442 of such title is amended—
(i)
by striking
Air Force Cadets
each place it appears and inserting
cadets
; and
(ii)
in subsection (b)(2), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
.
(B)
Technical amendment
Subsection (b)(4) of such section 9442 is amended by striking
him
and inserting
the Secretary
.
(11)
Cadets: agreement to serve as officer
Section 9448(a) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
or as a Reserve in the Space Force for service in the Space Force Reserve
.
(12)
Cadets: organization; service; instruction
Section 9449 of such title is amended by striking subsection (d).
(13)
Cadets: hazing
Section 9452(c) of such title is amended—
(A)
by striking
an Air Force cadet
and inserting
a cadet
; and
(B)
by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(14)
Cadets: degree and commission on graduation
Section 9453(b) of such title is amended by inserting
or in the equivalent grade in the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
.
(15)
Support of athletic programs
Section 9462(c)(2) of such title is amended by striking
personnel of the Air Force
and inserting
personnel of the Department of the Air Force
.
(16)
Schools and camps: establishment: purpose
Section 9481 of such title is amended—
(A)
by inserting
, the Space Force,
after
members of the Air Force,
; and
(B)
by inserting
or the Space Force Reserve
after
the Air Force Reserve
.
(17)
Schools and camps: operation
Section 9482 of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by inserting
or the Regular Space Force
after
Regular Air Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (7), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
or Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(e)
Service, supply, and procurement
(1)
Equipment: bakeries, schools, kitchens, and mess halls
Section 9536 of title 10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(2)
Rations
Section 9561 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in the first sentence, by inserting
and the Space Force ration
after
the Air Force ration
; and
(ii)
in the second sentence, by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(3)
Clothing
Section 9562 of such title is amended by inserting
and members of the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(4)
Clothing: replacement when destroyed to prevent contagion
Section 9563 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(5)
Colors, standards, and guidons of demobilized organizations: disposition
Section 9565 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
organizations of the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(6)
Utilities: proceeds from overseas operations
Section 9591 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(7)
Quarters: heat and light
Section 9593 of such title is amended by inserting
and members of the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(8)
Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public
(A)
In general
Section 9594 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting
Department of the
before
Air Force Military History
each place it appears; and
(ii)
in subsection (e)(1)—
(I)
by inserting
Department of the
before
Air Force Military History
; and
(II)
by inserting
and the Space Force
after
materials of the Air Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9594 is amended to read as follows:
9594.
Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 967 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9594 and inserting the following new item:
9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public.
.
(9)
Subsistence and other supplies: members of armed forces; veterans; executive or military departments and employees; prices
Section 9621 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
and members of the Space Force
after
the Air Force
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2), by inserting
and officers of the Space Force
after
the Air Force
;
(B)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
;
(C)
in subsection (c), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
;
(D)
in subsection (d), by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
;
(E)
in subsection (e)—
(i)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
the first place it appears; and
(ii)
by inserting
or the Space Force, respectively
after
the Air Force
the second place it appears;
(F)
in subsection (f), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
; and
(G)
in subsection (h)—
(i)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
the first place it appears; and
(ii)
by inserting
or members of the Space Force
after
members of the Air Force
.
(10)
Rations: commissioned officers in field
Section 9622 of such title is amended by inserting
and commissioned officers of the Space Force
after
officers of the Air Force
.
(11)
Medical supplies: civilian employees of the Air Force
Section 9624(a) of such title is amended—
(A)
by striking
air base
and inserting
Air Force or Space Force military installation
; and
(B)
by striking
Air Force when
and inserting
Department of the Air Force when
.
(12)
Ordnance property: officers of armed forces; civilian employees of air force
(A)
In general
Section 9625 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
officers of the Air Force
; and
(ii)
in subsection (b), by striking
the Air Force
and inserting
the Department of the Air Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
9625.
Ordnance property: officers of the armed forces; civilian employees of the Department of the Air Force; American National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for veterans' orphans
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 969 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9625 and inserting the following new item:
9625. Ordnance property: officers of the armed forces; civilian employees of the Department of the Air Force; American National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for veterans' orphans.
.
(13)
Supplies: educational institutions
Section 9627 of such title is amended—
(A)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
for the Air Force
;
(B)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
officer of the Air Force
; and
(C)
by striking
air science and tactics
and inserting
science and tactics
.
(14)
Supplies: military instruction camps
Section 9654 of such title is amended—
(A)
by inserting
or Space Force
after
an Air Force
; and
(B)
by striking
air science and tactics
and inserting
science and tactics
.
(15)
Disposition of effects of deceased persons by summary court-martial
Section 9712(a)(1) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(16)
Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, supply base, or aviation field
(A)
In general
Section 9771 of such title is amended in paragraph (2) by inserting
or space mission-related facility
after
aviation field
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9771 is amended to read as follows:
9771.
Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, supply base, aviation field, or space mission-related facility
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9771 and inserting the following new item:
9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, supply base, aviation field, or space mission-related facility.
.
(17)
Acquisition and construction: air bases and depots
(A)
In general
Section 9773 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (a)—
(I)
by striking
permanent air bases
and inserting
permanent Air Force and Space Force military installations
;
(II)
by striking
existing air bases
and inserting
existing installations
; and
(III)
by inserting
or the Space Force
after
training of the Air Force
;
(ii)
in subsections (b) and (c), by striking
air bases
each place it appears and inserting
installations
;
(iii)
in subsection (b)(7), by inserting
or Space Force
after
Air Force
;
(iv)
in subsection (c)—
(I)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
or Space Force
after
Air Force
; and
(II)
in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
both places it appears; and
(v)
in subsection (f), by striking
air base
and inserting
installation
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 9773 is amended to read as follows:
9773.
Acquisition and construction: installations and depots
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9773 and inserting the following new item:
9773. Acquisition and construction: installations and depots.
.
(18)
Emergency construction: fortifications
Section 9776 of such title is amended by striking
air base
and inserting
installation
.
(19)
Use of public property
Section 9779 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
economy of the Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (b), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
support of the Air Force
.
(20)
Disposition of real property at missile sites
Section 9781(a)(2) of such title is amended—
(A)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
Air Force
and inserting
Department of the Air Force
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
Air Force
the first two places it appears and inserting
Department of the Air Force
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
Air Force
and inserting
Department of the Air Force
.
(21)
Maintenance and repair of real property
Section 9782 of such title is amended in subsections (c) and (d) by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
both places it appears.
(22)
Settlement of accounts: remission or cancellation of indebtedness of members
Section 9837(a) of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
member of the Air Force
.
(23)
Final settlement of officer’s accounts
(A)
In general
Section 9840 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Such section 9840 is further amended—
(i)
by striking
he
each place it appears and inserting
the officer
; and
(ii)
by striking
his
each place it appears and inserting
the officer's
.
(24)
Payment of small amounts to public creditors
Section 9841 of such title is amended by inserting
or Space Force
after
official of Air Force
.
(25)
Settlement of accounts of line officers
Section 9842 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(f)
Service of incumbents in certain positions without reappointment
(1)
In general
The individual serving in a position under a provision of law specified in paragraph (2) as of the date of the enactment of this Act may continue to serve in such position after that date without further appointment as otherwise provided by such provision of law, notwithstanding the amendment of such provision of law by subsection (b).
(2)
Provisions of law
The provisions of law specified in this paragraph are the provisions of title 10, United States Code, as follows:
(A)
Section 9020, relating to the Inspector General of the Department of the Air Force.
(B)
Section 9036. relating to the Surgeon General of the Air Force.
(C)
Section 9037(a), relating to the Judge Advocate General of the Air Force.
(D)
Section 9037(d), relating to the Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Air Force.
(E)
Section 9039, relating to the Chief of Chaplains for the Air Force and the Space Force.
933.
Amendments to other provisions of title 10, United States Code
(a)
Definitions
Section 101(b)(13) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in paragraph (13), by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(b)
Other provisions of subtitle
A
(1)
Space Force
I
Subtitle A of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by striking
and Marine Corps
each place it appears and inserting
Marine Corps, and Space Force
in the following provisions:
(A)
Section 116(a)(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A).
(B)
Section 533(a)(2).
(C)
Section 646.
(D)
Section 661(a).
(E)
Section 712(a).
(F)
Section 717(c)(1).
(G)
Subsections (c) and (d) of section 741.
(H)
Section 743.
(I)
Section 1111(b)(4).
(J)
Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(A)(ii) of section 1143.
(K)
Section 1174(j).
(L)
Section 1463(a)(1).
(M)
Section 1566.
(N)
Section 2217(c)(2).
(O)
Section 2259(a).
(P)
Section 2640(j).
(2)
Space Force
II
(A)
In general
Such subtitle is further amended by striking
Marine Corps,
each place it appears and inserting
Marine Corps, Space Force,
in the following provisions:
(i)
Section 123(a).
(ii)
Section 172(a).
(iii)
Section 518.
(iv)
Section 747.
(v)
Section 749.
(vi)
Section 1552(c)(1).
(vii)
Section 2632(c)(2)(A).
(viii)
Section 2686(a).
(ix)
Section 2733(a).
(B)
Heading
The heading of section 747 of such title is amended to read as follows:
747.
Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard join
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 43 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 747 and inserting the following new item:
747. Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard join.
.
(3)
Space Force
III
Such subtitle is further amended by striking
or Marine Corps
each place it appears and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
in the following provisions:
(A)
Section 125(b).
(B)
Section 541(a).
(C)
Section 601(a).
(D)
Section 603(a).
(E)
Section 619(a).
(F)
Section 619a(a).
(G)
Section 624(c).
(H)
Section 625(b).
(I)
Subsections (a) and (d) of section 631.
(J)
Section 632(a).
(K)
Section 637(a)(2).
(L)
Section 638(a).
(M)
Section 741(d).
(N)
Section 771.
(O)
Section 772.
(P)
Section 773.
(Q)
Section 1123.
(R)
Section 1143(d).
(S)
Section 1174(a)(2).
(T)
Section 1251(a).
(U)
Section 1252(a).
(V)
Section 1253(a).
(W)
Section 1375.
(X)
Section 1413a(h).
(Y)
Section 1551.
(Z)
Section 1561(a).
(AA)
Section 1731(a)(1)(A)(ii).
(BB)
Section 2102(a).
(CC)
Section 2103a(a)(2).
(DD)
Section 2104(b)(5).
(EE)
Section 2107.
(FF)
Section 2421.
(GG)
Section 2631(a).
(HH)
Section 2787(a).
(4)
Regular Space Force
I
Such subtitle is further amended by striking
or Regular Marine Corps
each place it appears and inserting
Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space Force
in the following provisions:
(A)
Section 531(c).
(B)
Section 532(a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1).
(C)
Subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (f) of section 533.
(D)
Section 633(a).
(E)
Section 634(a).
(F)
Section 635.
(G)
Section 636(a).
(H)
Section 647(c).
(I)
Section 688(b)(1).
(J)
Section 1181.
(5)
Regular Space Force
II
Such subtitle is further amended by striking
Regular Marine Corps,
each place it appears and inserting
Regular Marine Corps, Regular Space Force,
in the following provisions:
(A)
Section 505.
(B)
Section 506.
(C)
Section 508.
(6)
Transfer, etc. of functions, powers, and duties
Section 125(b) of such title, as amended by paragraph (3)(A), is further amended by striking
or 9062(c)
and inserting
9062(c), or 9081
.
(7)
Joint Staff matters
(A)
Appointment of Chairman; grade and rank
Section 152 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking
or the Commandant of the Marine Corps
and inserting
the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Chief of Space Operations
; and
(ii)
in subsection (c), by striking
or, in the case of the Navy, admiral
and inserting
, in the case of the Navy, admiral, or, in the case of an officer of the Space Force, the equivalent grade,
.
(B)
Inclusion of Space Force on Joint Staff
Section 155(a) of such title is amended—
(i)
in paragraph (2) by inserting
the Space Force and
before
the Coast Guard
;
(ii)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
(iii)
by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
(3)
Officers of the Space Force assigned to serve on the Joint Staff shall be selected by the Chairman in a number that, to the extent practicable, bears the same proportion to the numbers of officers of the armed forces selected under paragraph (2) as the number of Regular members of the Space Force bears to the number of Regular members of the armed forces specified in that paragraph (with the Navy and the Marine Corps treated as a single armed force for purposes of this paragraph).
.
(8)
Armed Forces Policy Council
Section 171(a) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (15), by striking
and
;
(B)
in paragraph (16), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(17)
the Chief of Space Operations.
.
(9)
Joint Requirements Oversight Council
Section 181(c)(1) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(F)
A Space Force officer in the grade equivalent to the grade of general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or admiral in the Navy.
.
(10)
Unfunded priorities
Section 222a(b) of such title is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
(5)
The Chief of Space Operations.
.
(11)
Theater security cooperation expenses
Section 312(b)(3) of such title is amended by inserting
the Chief of Space Operations,
after
the Commandant of the Marine Corps,
.
(12)
Western Hemisphere Institute
Section 343(e)(1)(E) of such title is amended by inserting
or Space Force
after
for the Air Force
.
(13)
Original appointments of commissioned officers
Section 531(a) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and in the grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior grade), and lieutenant in the Regular Navy
and inserting
in the grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior grade), and lieutenant in the Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades in the Regular Space Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
and in the grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain in the Regular Navy
and inserting
in the grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain in the Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades in the Regular Space Force
.
(14)
Service credit upon original appointment as a commissioned officer
Section 533(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking
or captain in the Navy
and inserting
, captain in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force
.
(15)
Senior joint officer positions: recommendations to the Secretary of Defense
Section 604(a)(1)(A) of such title is amended by inserting
and the name of at least one Space Force officer
after
Air Force officer
.
(16)
Force shaping authority
Section 647(a)(2) of such title is amended by striking
of that armed force
.
(17)
Members: required service
Section 651(b) of such title is amended by striking
of his armed force
.
(18)
Career flexibility to enhance retention of members
Section 710(c)(1) of such title is amended by striking
the armed force concerned
and inserting
an armed force
.
(19)
Senior Members of Military Staff Committee of United Nations
Section 711 of such title is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(20)
Rank: Chief of Space Operations
(A)
In general
Section 743 of such title is amended by striking
and the Commandant of the Marine Corps
and inserting
the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space Operations
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 743 is amended to read as follows:
743.
Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval Operations; Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant of the Marine Corps; Chief of Space Operations
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 43 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 743 and inserting the following new item:
743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval Operations; Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant of the Marine Corps; Chief of Space Operations.
.
(21)
Uniform Code of Military Justice
Chapter 47 of such title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended—
(A)
in section 822(a)(7) (article 22(a)(7)), by striking
Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or the commanding officer of a corresponding unit of the Space Force
;
(B)
in section 823(a) (article 23(a))—
(i)
in paragraph (2)—
(I)
by striking
Air Force base
and inserting
Air Force or Space Force military installation
; and
(II)
by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
the Air Force, or the Space Force
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (4), by inserting
or a corresponding unit of the Space Force
after
Air Force
; and
(C)
in section 824(a)(3) (article 24(a)(3)), by inserting
or a corresponding unit of the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(22)
Service as cadet or midshipman not counted for length of service
Section 971(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking
or Air Force
and inserting
, Air Force, or Space Force
.
(23)
Referral bonus
Section 1030(h)(3) of such title is amended by inserting
and the Space Force
after
concerning the Air Force
.
(24)
Return to active duty from temporary disability
Section 1211(a) of such title is amended—
(A)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (6)—
(i)
by striking
or the Air Force, who
and inserting
the Air Force, or the Space Force who
; and
(ii)
by striking
or the Air Force, as
and inserting
the Air Force, or the Space Force, as
.
(25)
Years of service
Section 1405(c) of such title is amended by striking
or Air Force
and inserting
, Air Force, or Space Force
.
(26)
Retired pay base for persons who became members before September 8, 1980
Section 1406 of such title is amended—
(A)
in the heading of subsection (e), by inserting
and Space Force
after
Air Force
; and
(B)
in subsection (i)(3)—
(i)
in subparagraph (A)—
(I)
by redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi); and
(II)
by inserting after clause (iv) the following new clause (v):
(v)
Chief of Space Operations.
; and
(ii)
in subparagraph (B)—
(I)
by redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi); and
(II)
by inserting after clause (iv) the following new clause (v):
(v)
The senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force.
.
(27)
Special requirements for military personnel in the acquisition field
(A)
In general
Section 1722a(a) of such title is amended by striking
and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, respectively)
and inserting
, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space Operations (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force, respectively)
.
(B)
Clarifying amendment
Such section 1722a(a) is further amended by striking
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
and inserting
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
.
(28)
Senior military acquisition advisors
Section 1725(e)(1)(C) of such title is amended by inserting
and Space Force
before the period.
(29)
Military family readiness council
Section 1781a(b)(1) of such title is amended by striking
Marine Corps, and Air Force
each place it appears and inserting
Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force
.
(30)
Financial assistance program for specially selected members
Section 2107 of such title is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
by striking
or as a
and inserting
, as a
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or as an officer in the equivalent grade in the Space Force
after
Marine Corps,
;
(B)
in subsection (b)—
(i)
in paragraph (3), by striking
the reserve component of the armed force in which he is appointed as a cadet or midshipman
and inserting
the reserve component of an armed force
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (5), by striking
reserve component of that armed force
each place it appears and inserting
reserve component of an armed force
; and
(C)
in subsection (d), by striking
second lieutenant or ensign
and inserting
second lieutenant, ensign, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force
.
(31)
Space Rapid Capabilities Office
Section 2273a(d) of such title is amended by striking paragraph (3).
(32)
Acquisition-related functions of Chiefs of the Armed Forces
Section 2547(a) of such title is amended by striking
and the Commandant of the Marine Corps
and inserting
the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space Operations
.
(33)
Agreements related to military training, testing, and operations
Section 2684a(i) of such title is amended by inserting
Space Force,
before
or Defense-wide activities
each place it appears.
(c)
Provisions of subtitle b
(1)
In general
Subtitle B of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
each place it appears and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
in the following provisions:
(A)
Section 7452(c).
(B)
Section 7621(d).
(2)
Computation of years of service
Section 7326(a)(1) of such title is amended by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
.
(d)
Provisions of subtitle
C
(1)
Cadets; hazing
Section 8464(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(2)
Sales prices
(A)
In general
Section 8802 of such title is amended by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 8802 is amended to read as follows:
8802.
Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; prices
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 879 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 8802 and inserting the following new item:
8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; prices.
.
(3)
Sales to certain veterans
Section 8803 of such title is amended by striking
or the Marine Corps
and inserting
the Marine Corps, or the Space Force
.
(4)
Subsistence and other supplies
Section 8806(d) of such title is amended by striking
or Air Force or Marine Corps
and inserting
, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(5)
Scope of chapter on prize
Section 8851(a) of such title is amended by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
.
934.
Amendments to provisions of law relating to pay and allowances
(a)
Definitions
Section 101 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
each place it appears; and
(2)
in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting
and the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(b)
Basic pay rates
(1)
Commissioned officers
Footnote 2 of the table titled
COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
;
37 U.S.C. 1009
note) is amended by inserting after
Commandant of the Marine Corps,
the following:
Chief of Space Operations,
.
(2)
Enlisted members
Footnote 2 of the table titled
ENLISTED MEMBERS
in section 601(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (
Public Law 109–364
;
37 U.S.C. 1009
note) is amended by inserting after
Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,
the following:
the senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force,
.
(c)
Pay grades: assignment to; general rules
Section 201(a) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
(a) For the purpose
and inserting
(a)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), for the purpose
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
For the purpose of computing their basic pay, commissioned officers of the Space Force are assigned to the pay grades in the table in paragraph (1) by grade or rank in the Air Force that is equivalent to the grade or rank in which such officers are serving in the Space Force.
.
(d)
Pay of senior enlisted members
Section 210(c) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
(5)
The senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force.
.
(e)
Allowances other than travel and transportation allowances
(1)
Personal money allowance
Section 414 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)(5), by inserting
Chief of Space Operations,
after
Commandant of the Marines Corps,
; and
(B)
in subsection (b), by inserting
the senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force,
after
the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,
.
(2)
Clothing allowance: enlisted members
Section 418(d) of such title is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
; and
(B)
in paragraph (4), by striking
or the Marine Corps
and inserting
the Marine Corps, or the Space Force
.
(f)
Travel and transportation allowances: parking expenses
Section 481i(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(g)
Leave
(1)
Addition of Space Force
Chapter 9
of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marines Corps,
each place it appears in the following provisions:
(A)
Subsections (b)(1) and (e)(1) of section 501.
(B)
Section 502(a).
(C)
Section 503(a).
(2)
Addition of regular Space Force
Section 501(b)(5)(C) of such title is amended by striking
or Regular Marine Corps
and inserting
Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space Force
.
(3)
Technical amendments
Chapter 9 of such title is further amended as follows:
(A)
In section 501(b)(1)—
(i)
by striking
his
each place it appears and inserting
the member's
; and
(ii)
by striking
he
and inserting
the member
.
(B)
In section 502—
(i)
by striking
his designated representative
each place it appears and inserting
the Secretary's designated representative
;
(ii)
in subsection (a), by striking
he
each place it appears and inserting
the member
; and
(iii)
in subsection (b), by striking
his
and inserting
the member's
.
(h)
Allotment and assignment of pay
(1)
In general
Subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 701 of title 37, United States Code, are each amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(2)
Technical amendments
Such section 701 is further amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
his
and inserting
the officer's
;
(B)
in subsection (b), by striking
his
and inserting
the person's
; and
(C)
in subsection (c), by striking
his pay, and if he does so
and inserting
the member's pay, and if the member does so
.
(3)
Heading
The heading of such section 701 is amended to read as follows:
701.
Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force; contract surgeons
.
(4)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 13 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 701 and inserting the following new item:
701. Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force; contract surgeons.
.
(i)
Forfeiture of pay
(1)
Forfeiture for absence for intemperate use of alcohol or drugs
(A)
In general
Section 802 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Such section 802 is further amended by striking
his
each place it appears and inserting
the member's
.
(2)
Forfeiture when dropped from rolls
(A)
In general
Section 803 of such title is amended by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 803 is amended to read as follows:
803.
Commissioned officers of the Army, Air Force, or Space Force: forfeiture of pay when dropped from rolls
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 803 and inserting the following new item:
803. Commissioned officers of the Army, Air Force, or Space Force: forfeiture of pay when dropped from rolls.
.
(j)
Effect on pay of extension of enlistment
Section 906 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
.
(k)
Administration of pay
(1)
Prompt payment required
(A)
In general
Section 1005 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
and of the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, and the Space Force
.
(B)
Heading
The heading of such section 1005 is amended to read as follows:
1005.
Army, Air Force, and Space Force: prompt payments required
.
(C)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 803 and inserting the following new item:
1005. Army, Air Force, and Space Force: prompt payments required.
.
(2)
Deductions from pay
(A)
In general
Section 1007 of such title is amended—
(i)
in subsections (b), (d), (f), and (g), by striking
or the Air Force
and inserting
, the Air Force, or the Space Force
; and
(ii)
in subsection (e), by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(B)
Technical amendments
Such section 1007 is further amended—
(i)
in subsection (b), by striking
him
and inserting
the member
;
(ii)
in subsection (d), by striking
his
each place it appears and inserting
the member's
; and
(iii)
in subsection (f)—
(I)
by striking
his
and inserting
the officer's
; and
(II)
by striking
he
both places it appears and inserting
the officer
.
935.
Amendments relating to provisions of law on veterans’ benefits
(a)
Addition of space service to references to military, Naval, or air service
Title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
or air service
and inserting
air, or space service
each place it appears in the following provisions:
(1)
Paragraphs (2), (5), (12), (16), (17), (18), (24), and (32) of section 101.
(2)
Section 105(a).
(3)
Section 106(b).
(4)
Section 701.
(5)
Paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 1101.
(6)
Section 1103.
(7)
Section 1110.
(8)
Subsections (b)(1) and (c)(1) of section 1112.
(9)
Section 1113(b).
(10)
Section 1131.
(11)
Section 1132.
(12)
Section 1133.
(13)
Section 1137.
(14)
Section 1141.
(15)
Section 1153.
(16)
Section 1301.
(17)
Subsections (a) and (b) of section 1302.
(18)
Section 1310(b).
(19)
Section 1521(j).
(20)
Section 1541(h).
(21)
Subsections (a)(2)(B) and (e)(3) of section 1710.
(22)
Section 1712(a).
(23)
Section 1712A(c).
(24)
Section 1717(d)(1).
(25)
Subsections (b) and (c) of section 1720A.
(26)
Section 1720D(c)(3).
(27)
Section 1720E(a).
(28)
Section 1720G(a)(2)(B).
(29)
Subsections (b)(2), (e)(1), and (e)(4) of section 1720I.
(30)
Section 1781(a)(3).
(31)
Section 1783(b)(1).
(32)
Section 1922(a).
(33)
Section 2002(b)(1).
(34)
Section 2101A(a)(1).
(35)
Subsections (a)(1)(C) and (d) of section 2301.
(36)
Section 2302(a).
(37)
Section 2303(b)(2).
(38)
Subsections (b)(4)(A) and (g)(2) of section 2306.
(39)
Section 2402(a)(1).
(40)
Section 3018B(a).
(41)
Section 3102(a)(1)(A)(ii).
(42)
Subsections (a) and (b)(2)(A) of section 3103.
(43)
Section 3113(a).
(44)
Section 3501(a).
(45)
Section 3512(b)(1)(B)(iii).
(46)
Section 3679(c)(2)(A).
(47)
Section 3701(b)(2).
(48)
Section 3712(e)(2).
(49)
Section 3729(c)(1).
(50)
Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 3901(1).
(51)
Subsections (c)(1)(A) and (d)(2)(B) of section 5103A.
(52)
Section 5110(j).
(53)
Section 5111(a)(2)(A).
(54)
Section 5113(b)(3)(C).
(55)
Section 5303(e).
(56)
Section 6104(c).
(57)
Section 6105(a).
(58)
Subsections (a)(1) and (b)(3) of section 6301.
(59)
Section 6303(b).
(60)
Section 6304(b)(1).
(61)
Section 8301.
(b)
Definitions
(1)
Armed Forces
Paragraph (10) of section 101 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Air Force,
.
(2)
Secretary concerned
Paragraph (25)(C) of such section is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
before the semicolon.
(3)
Space Force Reserve
Paragraph (27) of such section is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (G) as subparagraphs (F) through (H), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new subparagraph (E):
(E)
the Space Force Reserve;
.
(c)
Placement of employees in military installations
Section 701 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
and Air Force
and inserting
Air Force, and Space Force
.
(d)
Consideration to be accorded time, place, and circumstances of service
Section 1154(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
or air organization
and inserting
air, or space organization
.
(e)
Premium payments
Section 1908 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
.
(f)
Secretary concerned for GI Bill
Section 3020(l)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
before the semicolon.
(g)
Definitions for Post-9/11 GI Bill
Section 3301(2)(C) of title 38,United States Code, is amended by inserting
or the Space Force
after
Air Force
.
(h)
Provision of credit protection and other services
Section 5724(c)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
936.
Amendments to other provisions of the United States Code
(a)
Title 5; definition of Armed Forces
Section 2101(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
Marine Corps,
the following:
Space Force,
.
(b)
Title 14
(1)
Voluntary retirement
Section 2152 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking
or Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, or Space Force
.
(2)
Computation of length of service
Section 2513 of such title is amended by inserting after
Air Force,
the following:
Space Force,
.
(c)
Title 18; firearms as nonmailable
Section 1715 of such title is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
.
(d)
Title 31
(1)
Definitions relating to claims
Section 3701(a)(7) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
.
(2)
Collection and compromise
Section 3711(f) of such title is amended in paragraphs (1) and (3) by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
each place it appears.
(e)
Title 41; honorable discharge certificate in lieu of birth certificate
Section 6309(a) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by inserting
Space Force,
after
Marine Corps,
.
(f)
Title 51; powers of the administration in performance of functions
Section 20113(l) of title 51, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Services
and inserting
Forces
; and
(2)
by striking
and Marine Corps
and inserting
Marine Corps, and Space Force
.
937.
Applicability to other provisions of law
(a)
Secretary of Defense authority
The authority of the Secretary of Defense with respect to the Air Force or members of the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be exercised by the Secretary with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
(b)
Secretary of the Air Force authority
The authority of the Secretary of the Air Force with respect to the Air Force or members of the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be exercised with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
(c)
Benefits for members
A member of the Space Force shall be eligible for any benefit under a covered provision of law that is available to a member of the Air Force under the same terms and conditions as the provision of law applies to members of the Air Force.
(d)
Covered provision of law defined
In this section, the term
covered provision of law
means a provision of law other than a provision of title 5, 10, 14, 18, 31, 37, 38, 41, or 51, United States Code.
II
Other Matters
941.
Matters relating to reserve components for the Space Force
(a)
Limitation on establishment of Space National Guard
(1)
In general
The Space National Guard may not be established as a reserve component of the Space Force until the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing, to the congressional defense committees that a Space National Guard is the organization best suited to discharge in an effective and efficient manner the missions intended to be assigned to the Space National Guard.
(2)
Basis for certification
The certification must be based on the results of a study conducted for purposes of this subsection by the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
(3)
Proposed missions
The certification shall include a description of each mission proposed to be assigned to the Space National Guard in connection with the certification.
(b)
Space Force Reserve
(1)
Inclusion within Space Force
Section 9081(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
, including the Regular Space Force and the Space Force Reserve,
after
space forces
.
(2)
Named reserve component
Section 10101 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph (7):
(7)
The Space Force Reserve.
.
(3)
Composition
(A)
In general
Chapter 1003 of such title is amended—
(i)
by redesignating section 10114 as section 10115; and
(ii)
by inserting after section 10113 the following new section 10114:
10114.
Space Force Reserve: composition
The Space Force Reserve is a reserve component of the Space Force to provide a reserve for active duty. It consists of the members of the officers' section of the Space Force Reserve and of the enlisted section of the Space Force Reserve.
.
(B)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1003 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 10114 and inserting the following new items:
10114. Space Force Reserve: composition.
10115. Coast Guard Reserve.
.
(4)
Space Force Reserve Command
(A)
In general
Chapter 1006 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
10175.
Space Force Reserve Command
(a)
Establishment of command
The Secretary of the Air Force, with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Space Operations, shall establish a Space Force Reserve Command. The Space Force Reserve Command shall be operated as a separate command of the Space Force.
(b)
Commander
The Chief of Space Force Reserve is the Commander of the Space Force Reserve Command. The commander of the Space Force Reserve Command reports directly to the Chief of Space Operations.
(c)
Assignment of forces
The Secretary of the Air Force—
(1)
shall assign to the Space Force Reserve Command all forces of the Space Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States other than forces assigned to the unified combatant command for special operations forces established pursuant to section 167 of this title; and
(2)
except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of Defense in the case of forces assigned to carry out functions of the Secretary of the Air Force specified in section 9013 of this title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such forces assigned to the Space Force Reserve Command under paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the Secretary of Defense.
.
(B)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1006 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
10175. Space Force Reserve Command.
.
(c)
Military personnel management
Any authority in title 10, United States Code, may be applied to a member of the Space Force Reserve in the same manner as such authority is applied to a similarly situated member of the Air Force Reserve. In the application of such authority to a member of the Space Force Reserve, any reference to a grade of a member of in the Air Force or Air Force Reserve shall be deemed to refer to the equivalent grade in the Space Force or Space Force Reserve.
(d)
Report on integration of Space Force Reserve into law
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House or Representatives a report setting forth the amendments to title 10, United States Code, and any other laws, necessary to fully integrate the Space Force Reserve into statutory authorities on the personnel, activities, missions, and management of the Space Force.
942.
Transfers of military and civilian personnel to the Space Force
(a)
Prohibition on involuntary transfer
A member of the Armed Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense may not be transferred to the military or civilian part of the Space Force, as the case may be, without the consent of such member or employee.
(b)
Status within Space Force upon transfer
Any member of the Armed Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is transferred to the Space Force shall, after transfer, have the status of member or civilian employee, as the case may be, of the Space Force.
(c)
Detail or assignment of members
(1)
Permanent nature of detail or assignment
The detail or assignment of any member of the Armed Forces to the Space Force on or after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be permanent, and shall be treated as a transfer to which subsection (b) applies.
(2)
Acknowledgment of nature
Any member undergoing a detail or assignment described in paragraph (1) shall execute a written acknowledgment, before undergoing such detail or assignment, of the permanent nature of the detail or assignment by reason of paragraph (1).
943.
Limitation on transfer of military installations to the jurisdiction of the Space Force
(a)
Limitation
A military installation (whether or not under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Air Force) may not be transferred to the jurisdiction or command of the Space Force until the Secretary of the Air Force briefs the congressional defense committees on the results of a business case analysis, conducted by the Secretary in connection with the transfer, of the cost and efficacy of the transfer.
(b)
Timing of briefing
The briefing on a business case analysis conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be provided not later than 15 days after the date of the completion of the business case analysis by the Secretary.
944.
Clarification of procurement of commercial satellite communications services
(a)
In general
Chapter 963
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before section 9532 the following new section:
9531.
Procurement of commercial satellite communications services
The Secretary of the Air Force shall be responsible for the procurement of commercial satellite communications services for the Department of Defense.
.
(b)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 963 of such title is amended by inserting before the item relating to section 9532 the following new item:
9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications services.
.
945.
Temporary exemption from authorized daily average of members in pay grades E–8 and E–9
Section 517 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the Space Force until October 1, 2023.
946.
Application of acquisition demonstration project to Department of the Air Force employees assigned to acquisition positions within the Space Force
(a)
In general
Chapter 81
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1599i.
Application of acquisition demonstration project to Department of the Air Force employees assigned to acquisition positions within the Space Force
For purposes of the demonstration project authorized by section 1762 of this title, the Secretary of Defense may apply the provisions of such section, including any regulations, procedures, waivers, or guidance implementing such section, to employees of the Department of the Air Force assigned to acquisition positions within the Space Force.
.
(b)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
1599i. Application of acquisition demonstration project to Department of the Air Force employees assigned to acquisition positions within the Space Force.
.
947.
Air and Space Force Medal
(a)
Supersedure of Airman's Medal with Air and Space Force Medal
(1)
In general
Section 9280 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A)
by striking
Airman's Medal
each place it appears and inserting
Air and Space Force Medal
; and
(B)
in subsection (a)(1), by inserting
or the Space Force
after
the Air Force
.
(2)
Section heading
The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
9280.
Air and Space Force Medal: award; limitations
.
(3)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 937 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 9280 and inserting the following new item:
9280. Air and Space Force Medal: award; limitations.
.
(b)
Differentiation in design
The President shall ensure that the design of the Air and Space Force Medal and accompanying ribbon (and any related bar or device) awarded under section 9280 of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), differs in an appropriate manner from the design of the Airman's Medal and accompanying ribbon, bar, or device awarded under section 9280 of title 10, United States Code, as such section was in effect on the date before the date of the enactment of this Act.
D
Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
951.
Annual report on establishment of field operating agencies
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 134
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2245
the following new section:
2246.
Establishment of field operating agencies: annual report
(a)
Annual report required
Not later than January 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on each, if any, field operating agency established during the preceding year.
(b)
Elements
Each report under subsection (a) shall include, for each field operating agency covered by such report, the following:
(1)
The name of such agency.
(2)
The physical location of such agency.
(3)
The title and grade (whether military or civilian) of the head of such agency.
(4)
The chain of command, supervision, or authority through which the head of such agency reports to the Office of the Secretary of Defense or the military department or Armed Forces headquarters, as applicable.
(5)
The mission of such agency.
(6)
The number of personnel authorized to be assigned to such agency, and the number of such authorizations encumbered by military personnel and civilian employees of the Department of Defense or military department, as applicable.
(7)
The purpose underlying the establishment of such agency.
(8)
Any cost savings or other efficiencies that have accrued, or are anticipated to accrue, to the Department of Defense or any of its components in connection with the establishment and operation of such agency.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of chapter 134 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2245 the following new item:
2246. Establishment of field operating agencies: annual report.
.
952.
Briefing on assignment of members of the Armed Forces on active duty to the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center of the Department of Defense
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, with appropriate representatives of the Armed Forces, shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the feasibility and the current status of assigning members of the Armed Forces on active duty to the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC) of the Department of Defense. The briefing shall include an assessment of such assignment on each of the following:
(1)
The strengthening of ties between the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center and operational forces for purposes of—
(A)
identifying tactical and operational use cases for artificial intelligence (AI);
(B)
improving data collection; and
(C)
establishing effective liaison between the Center and operational forces for identification and clarification of concerns in the widespread adoption and dissemination of artificial intelligence.
(2)
The creation of opportunities for additional non-traditional broadening assignments for members on active duty.
(3)
The career trajectory of active duty members so assigned, including potential negative effects on career trajectory.
(4)
The improvement and enhancement of the capacity of the Center to influence Department-wide policies that affect the adoption of artificial intelligence.
953.
Threats to United States forces from small unmanned aerial systems worldwide
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
United States military forces face an ever increasing and constantly evolving threat from small unmanned aerial systems in operations worldwide, whether in the United States or abroad.
(2)
The Department of Defense is already doing important work to address the threats from small unmanned aerial systems worldwide, though the need for engagement in that area continues.
(b)
Executive agent
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Army is the executive agent of the Department of Defense for programs, projects, and activities to counter small unmanned aerial systems (in this section referred to as the
Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program
).
(2)
Functions
The functions of the Secretary as executive agent shall be as follows:
(A)
To develop the strategy required by subsection (c).
(B)
To carry out such other activities to counter threats to United States forces worldwide from small unmanned aerial systems as the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Army consider appropriate.
(3)
Structure
The Secretary as executive agent shall carry out the functions specified in paragraph (2) through such administrative structures as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Strategy To counter threats from small unmanned aerial systems
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, as executive agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program, shall develop and submit to relevant committees of Congress a strategy for the Armed Forces to effectively counter threats from small unmanned aerial systems worldwide. The report shall be submitted in classified form.
(d)
Report on executive agent activities
(1)
Report required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, as executive agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program, shall submit to Congress a report on the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the structure and activities of the executive agent as established and put in place by the Secretary, including the following:
(i)
Any obstacles hindering the effective discharge of its functions and activities, including limitations in authorities or policy.
(ii)
The changes, if any, to airspace management, rules of engagement, and training plans that are required in order to optimize the use by the Armed Forces of counter-small unmanned aerial systems.
(B)
An assessment of the implementation of the strategy required by subsection (c), and a description of any updates to the strategy that are required in light of evolving threats to the Armed Forces from small unmanned aerial systems.
(e)
Report on threat from small unmanned aerial systems
(1)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the submittal of the strategy required by subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that sets forth a direct comparison between the threats United States forces in combat settings face from small unmanned aerial systems and the capabilities of the United States to counter such threats. The report shall be submitted in classified form.
(2)
Coordination
The Secretary shall prepare the report required by paragraph (1) in coordination with the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and with such other appropriate officials of the intelligence community, and such other officials in the United States Government, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(3)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An evaluation and assessment of the current and evolving threat being faced by United States forces from small unmanned aerial systems.
(B)
A description of the counter-small unmanned aerial system systems acquired by the Department of Defense as of the date of the enactment of this Act, and an assessment whether such systems are adequate to meet the current and evolving threat described in subparagraph (A).
(4)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(f)
Independent assessment of Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program
(1)
Assessment
Not later than 60 days after the submittal of the strategy required by subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a contract with a Federally funded research and development center to conduct an assessment of the efficacy of the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program.
(2)
Elements
The assessment conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An identification of metrics to assess progress in the implementation of the strategy required by subsection (c), which metrics shall take into account the threat assessment required for purposes of subsection (e).
(B)
An assessment of progress, and key challenges, in the implementation of the strategy using such metrics, and recommendations for improvements in the implementation of the strategy.
(C)
An assessment of the extent to which the Department of Defense is coordinating adequately with other departments and agencies of the United States Government, and other appropriate entities, in the development and procurement of counter-small unmanned aerial systems for the Department.
(D)
An assessment of the extent to which the designation of the Secretary of the Army as executive agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program has reduced redundancies and increased efficiencies in procurement of counter-small unmanned aerial systems.
(E)
An assessment whether United States technological progress on counter-small unmanned aerial systems is sufficient to maintain a competitive edge over the small unmanned aerial systems technology available to United States adversaries.
(3)
Report
Not later than 180 days after entry into the contract referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the results of the assessment required under the contract.
X
General Provisions
A
Financial Matters
1001.
General transfer authority
(a)
Authority To transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2021 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
(2)
Limitation
Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed $4,000,000,000.
(3)
Exception for
transfers between military personnel authorizations
A transfer of funds between military personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
(b)
Limitations
The authority provided by subsection (a) to transfer authorizations—
(1)
may only be used to provide authority for items that have a higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; and
(2)
may not be used to provide authority for an item that has been denied authorization by Congress.
(c)
Effect on
authorization amounts
A transfer made from one account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
(d)
Notice to
Congress
The Secretary shall promptly notify Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
1002.
Application of Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan to fiscal years following fiscal year 2020
Section 240b(a)(2)(A)(iii) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
for fiscal year 2018
and all that follows and inserting
for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2020 occurs by not later than March 31 following such fiscal year;
.
1003.
Incentives for the achievement by the components of the Department of Defense of unqualified audit opinions on the financial statements
(a)
Incentives required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, acting through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Defense, develop and issue guidance to incentivize the achievement by each department, agency, and other component of the Department of Defense of unqualified audit opinions on their financial statements.
(b)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a description and assessment of current and proposed incentives for the achievement of unqualified audit opinions as described in subsection (a).
(c)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
B
Counterdrug activities
1011.
Codification of authority for joint task forces of the Department of Defense to support law enforcement agencies conducting counterterrorism or counter-transnational organized crime activities
(a)
Codification of section 1022 of FY 2004 NDAA
Chapter 15
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end a new section 285 consisting of—
(1)
a heading as follows:
285.
Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement agencies conducting counterterrorism or counter-transnational organized crime activities
; and
(2)
a text consisting of the text of section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (
10 U.S.C. 271
note).
(b)
Conforming amendments in connection with codification
Section 285 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b), by striking
During fiscal years 2006 through 2022, funds for drug interdiction
and inserting
Funds for drug interdiction
;
(2)
in subsection (c), by striking
of each year in which the authority in subsection (a) is in effect
and inserting
each year
;
(3)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking the paragraph designation and all that follows through
Support
in paragraph (2)(A) and inserting
(1) Support
;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) as paragraph (2); and
(C)
in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking
subparagraph (A)
and inserting
paragraph (1)
; and
(4)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
of title 10, United States Code
and inserting
of this title
; and
(B)
by striking the second paragraph (2).
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
285. Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement agencies conducting counterterrorism or counter-transnational organized crime activities.
.
(d)
Conforming repeal
Section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 is repealed.
C
Naval Vessels and Shipyards
1021.
Modification of authority to purchase used vessels with funds in the National Defense Sealift Fund
Section 2218(f)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking subparagraphs (E) and (G); and
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (E).
1022.
Waiver during war or threat to national security of restrictions on overhaul, repair, or maintenance of vessels in foreign shipyards
Section 8680 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection: (c)
(c)
Waiver
(1)
The Secretary of the Navy may waive the restrictions in subsections (a) and (b) for the duration of a period of threat to the national security interests of the United States upon a written determination by the Secretary that such a waiver is necessary in the national security interest of the United States.
(2)
Not later than 15 days after making a determination under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a written notification on the determination.
(3)
In this subsection, the term
period of threat to the national security interests of the United States
means the following:
(A)
A period of war.
(B)
Any other period determined by Secretary of Defense in which the national security interests of the United States are threatened by the application, or the imminent danger of application, of physical force by any foreign government or agency against the United States, citizens of the United States, the property of citizens of the United States, or the commercial interests of citizens of the United States.
.
1023.
Modification of waiver authority on prohibition on use of funds for retirement of certain legacy maritime mine countermeasure platforms
(a)
In general
Section 1046(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1556) is amended by striking
certifies
and inserting
, with the concurrence of the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, certifies in writing
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to waivers under subsection (b)(1) of section 1046 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 of the prohibition under subsection (a) of that section that occur on or after that date.
1024.
Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for certain Navy mess operations afloat
Section 1014(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4585), as most recently amended by section 1023(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 966), is further amended by striking
September 30, 2020
and inserting
September 30, 2025
.
1025.
Sense of Congress on actions necessary to achieve a 355-ship Navy
It is the sense of Congress that to achieve the national policy of the United States to have available, as soon as practicable, not fewer than 355 battle force ships—
(1)
the Navy must be adequately resourced to increase the size of the Navy in accordance with the national policy, which includes the associated ships, aircraft, personnel, sustainment, and munitions;
(2)
across fiscal years 2021 through 2025, the Navy should start construction on not fewer than—
(A)
12 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers;
(B)
10 Virginia-class submarines;
(C)
2 Columbia-class submarines;
(D)
3 San Antonio-class amphibious ships;
(E)
1 LHA-class amphibious ship;
(F)
6 John Lewis-class fleet oilers; and
(G)
5 guided missile frigates;
(3)
new guided missile frigate construction should increase to a rate of between two and four ships per year once design maturity and construction readiness permit;
(4)
the Columbia-class submarine program should be funded with additions to the Navy budget significantly above the historical average, given the critical single national mission that these vessels will perform and the high priority of the shipbuilding budget for implementing the National Defense Strategy;
(5)
stable shipbuilding rates of construction should be maintained for each vessel class, utilizing multi-year or block buy contract authorities when appropriate, until a deliberate transition plan is identified; and
(6)
prototyping of potential new shipboard subsystems should be accelerated to build knowledge systematically, and, to the maximum extent practicable, shipbuilding prototyping should occur at the subsystem-level in advance of ship design.
D
Counterterrorism
1031.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States
Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1953), as amended by section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
1032.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or relinquish control of United States
Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1551), as most recently amended by section 1045 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
fiscal year 2018, 2019, or 2020
and inserting
fiscal years 2018 through 2021
.
1033.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
to certain countries
Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1954), as amended by section 1042 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
1034.
Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the United States to
house detainees transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba
Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1954), as amended by section 1044 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
E
Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
1041.
Inclusion of disaster-related emergency preparedness activities among law enforcement activities authorities for sale or donation of excess personal property of the Department of Defense
(a)
Inclusion
Subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
disaster-related emergency preparedness,
after
counterterrorism,
.
(b)
Preference in transfers
Subsection (d) of such section is amended to read as follows:
(d)
Preference for certain transfers
In considering applications for the transfer of personal property under this section, the Secretary shall give a preference to applications indicating that the transferred property will be used in the counterdrug, counterterrorism, disaster-related emergency preparedness, or border security activities of the recipient agency. Applications that request vehicles used for disaster-related emergency preparedness, such as high-water rescue vehicles, should receive the highest preference.
.
1042.
Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense clandestine activities that support operational preparation of the environment
(a)
Authority
Subject to subsections (b) through (d), the Secretary of Defense may expend up to $15,000,000 in any fiscal year for clandestine activities for any purpose the Secretary determines to be proper for preparation of the environment for operations of a confidential nature. Such a determination is final and conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States. The Secretary may certify the amount of any such expenditure authorized by the Secretary that the Secretary considers advisable not to specify, and the Secretary's certificate is sufficient voucher for the expenditure of that amount.
(b)
Funds
Funds for expenditures under this section in a fiscal year shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for that fiscal year for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide.
(c)
Limitation on delegation
The Secretary of Defense may not delegate the authority under this section with respect to any expenditure in excess of $100,000.
(d)
Exclusion of intelligence activities
(1)
In general
This section does not constitute authority to conduct, or expend funds for, intelligence, counterintelligence, or intelligence-related activities.
(2)
Definitions
In this subsection, the terms
intelligence
and
counterintelligence
have the meaning given those terms in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
(e)
Annual report
Not later than December 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on expenditures made under this section during the fiscal year preceding the year in which the report is submitted. Each report shall include, for each expenditure under this section during the fiscal year covered by such report—
(1)
the amount and date of such expenditure;
(2)
a detailed description of the purpose for which such expenditure was made;
(3)
an explanation why other authorities available to the Department of Defense could not be used for such expenditure; and
(4)
any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
1043.
Clarification of authority of military commissions under
chapter 47A
of title 10, United States Code, to punish contempt
(a)
Clarification
(1)
In general
Subchapter IV of
chapter 47A
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
949o–1.
Contempt
(a)
Authority to punish
(1)
With respect to any proceeding under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may punish for contempt any person who—
(A)
uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the presence of the judicial officer during the proceeding;
(B)
disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or
(C)
willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.
(2)
A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the following:
(A)
Any judge of the United States Court of Military Commission Review.
(B)
Any military judge detailed to a military commission or any other proceeding under this chapter.
(b)
Punishment
The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.
(c)
Review
(1)
A punishment under this section—
(A)
is not reviewable by the convening authority of a military commission under this chapter;
(B)
if imposed by a military judge, shall constitute a judgment, subject to review in the first instance only by the United States Court of Military Commission Review and then only by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; and
(C)
if imposed by a judge of the United States Court of Military Commission Review, shall constitute a judgment of the court subject to review only by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
(2)
In reviewing a punishment for contempt imposed under this section, the reviewing court shall affirm such punishment unless the court finds that imposing such punishment was an abuse of the discretion of the judicial officer who imposed such punishment.
(3)
A petition for review of punishment for contempt imposed under this section shall be filed not later than 60 days after the date on which the authenticated record upon which the contempt punishment is based and any contempt proceedings conducted by the judicial officer are served on the person punished for contempt.
(d)
Punishment not conviction
Punishment for contempt is not a conviction or sentence within the meaning of section 949m of this title. The imposition of punishment for contempt is not governed by other provisions of this chapter applicable to military commissions, except that the Secretary of Defense may prescribe procedures for contempt proceedings and punishments, pursuant to the authority provided in section 949a of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IV of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
949o–1. Contempt.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Section 950t of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (31); and
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (32) as paragraph (31).
(c)
Rule of construction
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall not be construed to affect the lawfulness of any punishment for contempt adjudged prior to the effective date of such amendments.
(d)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to conduct by a person that occurs on or after such date.
1044.
Prohibition on actions to infringe upon First Amendment rights of peaceable assembly and petition for redress of grievances
Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act shall not be used for any program, project, or activity, or any use of personnel, to conduct actions against United States citizens that infringe upon their rights under the First Amendment to the Constitution peaceably to assemble and/or to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.
1045.
Arctic planning, research, and development
(a)
Arctic planning and implementation
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall begin planning and implementing such changes as may be necessary for requirements, training, equipment, doctrine, and capability development of the Armed Forces should an expanded role of the Armed Forces in the Arctic be determined by the Secretary to be in the national security interests of the United States.
(2)
Training
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall direct the Armed Forces to carry out training in the Arctic or training relevant to carrying out military operations in the Arctic.
(b)
Arctic research and development program
(1)
In general
If pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense determines that an expanded role for the Armed Forces is in the national security interests of the United States, the Secretary shall establish a research and development program on the current and future requirements and needs of the Armed Forces for operations in the Arctic.
(2)
Elements
The program required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
Development of materiel solutions for operating in extreme weather environments of the Arctic, including equipment for individual members of the Armed Forces, ground vehicles, and communications systems.
(B)
Development of a plan for fielding future weapons platforms able to operate in Arctic conditions for surface combatants, submarines, aviation platforms, assault craft unit connectors, auxiliaries, littoral craft, unmanned aerial vehicles, and any other systems that may be needed in the Arctic.
(C)
Development of capabilities to monitor, assess, and predict environmental and weather conditions in the Arctic and their effect on military operations.
(D)
Determining requirements for logistics and sustainment of the Armed Forces operating in the Arctic.
1046.
Consideration of security risks in certain telecommunications architecture for future overseas basing decisions of the Department of Defense
The Secretary of Defense shall take into account the security risks of 5G and 6G telecommunications network architecture, including the use of telecommunications equipment provided by at-risk vendors such as Huawei Technologies Company, Ltd., and the Zhongxing Telecommunications Equipment Corporation (ZTE), in all future overseas stationing decisions of the Department of Defense, including—
(1)
security risks from threats to operational and information security of United States military personnel and equipment; and
(2)
the sufficiency of potential mitigation by the Department and the host nation concerned of such security risks, including through cost-sharing agreements related to such mitigation.
1047.
Foreign military training programs
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Secure United States Bases Act
.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate defense committees
The term
appropriate defense committees
means—
(A)
the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate
; and
(B)
the
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives
.
(2)
Covered individuals
The term
covered individuals
means any foreign national (except foreign nationals of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom who have been granted a security clearance that is reciprocally accepted by the United States for access to classified information) who—
(A)
is seeking physical access to a Department of Defense installation or facility within the United States; and
(B)
(i)
is selected, nominated, or accepted for training or education for a period of more than 30 days occurring on a Department of Defense installation or facility within the United States; or
(ii)
is an immediate family member accompanying any foreign national who has been selected, nominated, or accepted for such training or education.
(3)
Immediate family member
The term
immediate family member
means—
(A)
spouse;
(B)
parents and stepparents;
(C)
siblings, stepsiblings, and half-siblings; and
(D)
children and stepchildren.
(4)
United States
The term
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Guam.
(c)
Establishment of vetting procedures; monitoring requirements for certain military training
(1)
Establishment of vetting procedures
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures to vet covered individuals for eligibility for physical access to Department of Defense installations and facilities within the United States, including—
(i)
biographic and biometric screening of covered individuals;
(ii)
continuous review of whether covered individuals should continue to be authorized such physical access;
(iii)
biographic checks of the covered individual’s immediate family members; and
(iv)
any other measures that the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate for vetting.
(B)
Information required
The Secretary of Defense shall identify the information required to conduct the vetting.
(C)
Collection of information
The Secretary of Defense shall—
(i)
collect information to vet individuals under the procedures established under this subsection; and
(ii)
as required for the effective implementation of this section, shall seek to enter into agreements with the relevant Federal departments and agencies to facilitate the sharing of information in the possession of such departments and agencies concerning the covered individuals.
(2)
Determination authority
(A)
Review
The results of vetting—
(i)
will be reviewed within the Department of Defense by an organization with an assigned security and counterintelligence mission; and
(ii)
will be the basis for that organization’s recommendation regarding whether physical access should be authorized by the appropriate authority.
(B)
Effect of denial
If the organization recommends that a covered individual not be authorized physical access to Department of Defense installations and facilities within the United States, such physical access may only be authorized for such covered individual by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(C)
Notification
The Secretary of State shall be notified of any covered individuals who are not authorized physical access based on the results of the vetting under this subsection.
(3)
Additional security measures
Beginning on the date that is 181 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(A)
ensure that all Department of Defense Common Access Cards issued to foreign nationals in the United States—
(i)
comply with the credentialing standards issued by the Office of Personnel Management; and
(ii)
include a visual indicator, as required by the standard developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
(B)
ensure that physical access by covered individuals is limited, as appropriate, to Department of Defense installations or facilities within the United States that are directly associated with their training or education or necessary to access authorized benefits;
(C)
establish a policy regarding the possession of firearms on Department of Defense property by covered individuals; and
(D)
ensure that covered individuals who have been granted physical access are incorporated into the Department of Defense Insider Threat Program.
(4)
Notification
The Secretary of Defense shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of the establishment of the procedures required under paragraph (1).
(d)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Briefing
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees regarding the establishment of any Department of Defense policy or guidance related to the implementation of this section.
(2)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding the impact and effects of this section, including—
(A)
any positive or negative impacts on the training of foreign military students;
(B)
the effectiveness of the vetting procedures implemented in preventing harm to United States military personnel or communities;
(C)
how any of the negative impacts have been mitigated; and
(D)
a proposed plan to mitigate any ongoing negative impacts to the vetting and training of foreign military students by the Department of Defense.
1048.
Reporting of adverse events relating to consumer products on military installations
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that any adverse event related to a consumer product that occurs on a military installation is reported on the internet website saferproducts.gov.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Adverse event
The term
adverse event
means—
(A)
any event that indicates that a consumer product—
(i)
fails to comply with an applicable consumer product safety rule or with a voluntary consumer product safety standard upon which the Consumer Product Safety Commission has relied under section 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2058
);
(ii)
fails to comply with any other rule, regulation, standard, or ban under that Act or any other Act enforced by the Commission;
(iii)
contains a defect which could create a substantial product hazard described in section 15(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2064(a)(2)
); or
(iv)
creates an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death; or
(B)
any other harm described in subsection (b)(1)(A) of section 6A of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2055a
) and required to be reported in the database established under subsection (a) of that section.
(2)
Consumer product
The term
consumer product
has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2052
).
1049.
Inclusion of United States Naval Sea Cadet Corps among youth and charitable organizations authorized to receive assistance from the National Guard
Section 508(d) of title 32, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (15); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new paragraph (14):
(14)
The United States Naval Sea Cadet Corps.
.
1050.
Department of Defense policy for the regulation of dangerous dogs
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, through the Veterinary Service Activity of the Department of Defense, shall establish a standardized policy applicable across all military communities for the regulation of dangerous dogs that is—
(1)
breed-neutral; and
(2)
consistent with advice from professional veterinary and animal behavior experts in regard to effective regulation of dangerous dogs.
(b)
Regulations
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations implementing the policy established under subsection (a).
(2)
Best practices
The regulations prescribed under paragraph (1) shall include strategies, for implementation within all military communities, for the prevention of dog bites that are consistent with the following best practices:
(A)
Enforcement of comprehensive, non-breed-specific regulations relating to dangerous dogs, with emphasis on identification of dangerous dog behavior and chronically irresponsible owners.
(B)
Enforcement of animal control regulations, such as leash laws and stray animal control policies.
(C)
Promotion and communication of resources for pet spaying and neutering.
(D)
Investment in community education initiatives, such as teaching criteria for pet selection, pet care best practices, owner responsibilities, and safe and appropriate interaction with dogs.
(c)
Military communities defined
In this section, the term
military communities
means—
(1)
all installations of the Department; and
(2)
all military housing, including privatized military housing under subchapter IV of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code.
1051.
Sense of Congress on the basing of KC–46A aircraft outside the contiguous United States
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force, as part of the strategic basing process for KC–46A aircraft at installations outside the contiguous United States (OCONUS), should—
(1)
consider the benefits derived from basing such aircraft at locations that—
(A)
support day-to-day air refueling operations, operations plans of multiple combatant commands, and flexibility for contingency operations;
(B)
have—
(i)
a strategic location that is essential to the defense of the United States and its interests;
(ii)
receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue combat training opportunities with joint and international partners; and
(iii)
sufficient airfield and airspace availability and capacity to meet requirements;
(C)
possess facilities that take full advantage of existing infrastructure to provide—
(i)
runway, hangars, and aircrew and maintenance operations; and
(ii)
sufficient fuel receipt, storage, and distribution for 5-day peacetime operating stock; and
(D)
minimize overall construction and operational costs;
(2)
prioritize United States responsiveness and flexibility to continued long-term great power competition and other major threats, as outlined in the 2017 National Security Strategy and the 2018 National Defense Strategy; and
(3)
take into account the advancement of adversary weapons systems, with respect to both capacity and range.
1052.
Efficient use of sensitive compartmented information facilities
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall issue revised guidance authorizing and directing Government agencies and their appropriately cleared contractors to process, store, use, and discuss sensitive compartmented information (SCI) at facilities previously approved to handle such information, without need for further approval by agency or by site. Such guidance shall apply to controlled access programs of the intelligence community and to special access programs of the Department of Defense.
1053.
Assistance for farmer and rancher stress and mental health of individuals in rural areas
(a)
Definition of Secretary
In this section, the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(b)
Findings
Congress finds that—
(1)
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the suicide rate is 45 percent greater in rural areas of the United States than the suicide rate in urban areas of the United States;
(2)
farmers face social isolation, the potential for financial losses, barriers to seeking mental health services, and access to lethal means to commit suicide; and
(3)
as commodity prices fall and farmers face uncertainty, reports of farmer suicides are increasing.
(c)
Public service announcement campaign to address farm and ranch mental health
(1)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall carry out a public service announcement campaign to address the mental health of farmers and ranchers.
(2)
Requirements
The public service announcement campaign under paragraph (1) shall include television, radio, print, outdoor, and digital public service announcements.
(3)
Contractor
The Secretary may enter into a contract or other agreement with a third party to carry out the public service announcement campaign under paragraph (1).
(4)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this subsection $3,000,000, to remain available until expended.
(d)
Employee training program to manage farmer and rancher stress
(1)
In general
Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (
7 U.S.C. 6912
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
224B.
Employee training program to manage farmer and rancher stress
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a voluntary program to train employees of the Farm Service Agency, the Risk Management Agency, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service in the management of stress experienced by farmers and ranchers, including the detection of stress and suicide prevention.
(b)
Requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary submits a report on the results of the pilot program being carried out by the Secretary as of the date of enactment of this section to train employees of the Department in the management of stress experienced by farmers and ranchers, and based on the recommendations contained in that report, the Secretary shall develop a training program to carry out subsection (a).
(c)
Report
Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report describing the implementation of this section.
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
(A)
Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is amended by redesignating section 225 (
7 U.S.C. 6925
) as section 224A.
(B)
Section 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (
7 U.S.C. 7014(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(11)
The authority of the Secretary to carry out section 224B.
.
(e)
Task force for assessment of causes of mental stress and best practices for response
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall convene a task force of agricultural and rural stakeholders at the national, State, and local levels—
(A)
to assess the causes of mental stress in farmers and ranchers; and
(B)
to identify best practices for responding to that mental stress.
(2)
Submission of report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the task force convened under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary a report containing the assessment and best practices under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of that paragraph.
(3)
Collaboration
In carrying out this subsection, the task force convened under paragraph (1) shall collaborate with nongovernmental organizations and State and local agencies.
1054.
Additional conditions and limitations on the transfer of Department of Defense property for law enforcement activities
(a)
Additional training of recipient agency personnel required
Subsection (b)(6) of section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, including respect for the rights of citizens under the Constitution of the United States and de-escalation of force
.
(b)
Certain property not transferrable
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(d)
Property not transferrable
The Secretary may not transfer to a Tribal, State, or local law enforcement agency under this section the following:
(1)
Bayonets.
(2)
Grenades (other than stun and flash-bang grenades).
(3)
Weaponized tracked combat vehicles.
(4)
Weaponized drones.
.
F
Studies and Reports
1061.
Report on potential improvements to certain military educational institutions of the Department of Defense
(a)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the results of a review and assessment, obtained by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the potential effects on the military education provided by the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in subsection (b) of the actions described in subsection (c).
(2)
Conducting organization
The review and assessment required for purposes of the report shall be performed by an organization selected by the Secretary from among organizations independent of the Department that have expertise in the analysis of matters in connection with higher education.
(b)
Educational institutions of the Department of Defense
The educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The senior level service schools and intermediate level service schools (as such terms are defined in section 2151(b) of title 10, United States Code).
(2)
The Air Force Institute of Technology.
(3)
The National Defense University.
(4)
The Joint Special Operations University.
(5)
The Army Armament Graduate School.
(6)
Any other military educational institution of the Department specified by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(c)
Actions
The actions described in this subsection with respect to the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in subsection (b) are the following:
(1)
Modification of admission and graduation requirements.
(2)
Expansion of use of case studies in curricula for professional military education.
(3)
Reduction or expansion of degree-granting authority.
(4)
Reduction or expansion of the acceptance of research grants.
(5)
Reduction of the number of attending students generally.
(6)
Modification of military personnel career milestones in order to prioritize instructor positions.
(7)
Increase in educational and performance requirements for military personnel selected to be instructors.
(8)
Expansion of
visiting
or
adjunct
faculty.
(9)
Modification of civilian faculty management practices, including employment practices.
(10)
Reduction of the number of attending students through the sponsoring of education of an increased number of students at non-Department of Defense institutions of higher education.
(11)
Modification of enlisted personnel management and career milestones to increase attendance at non-Department of Defense institutions of higher education
(d)
Additional elements
In addition to the matters described in subsection (a), the review and report under this section shall also include the following:
(1)
A comparison of admission standards and graduation requirements of the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in subsection (b) with admission standards and graduation requirements of public and private institutions of higher education that are comparable to the educational institutions of the Department of Defense.
(2)
A comparison of the goals and missions of the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in subsection (b) with the goals and missions of such public and private institutions of higher education.
(3)
Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
(e)
JCS evaluation of review and assessment
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the report required by subsection (a) is submitted to Congress, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall, in consultation with the other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth any evaluation by the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the review and assessment covered by the report under subsection (a).
1062.
Reports on status and modernization of the North Warning System
(a)
Report on status
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the status of the North Warning System.
(2)
Elements
The report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the status and operational integrity of the infrastructure of the North Warning System.
(B)
An assessment of the technology currently used by the North Warning System compared with the technology considered necessary by the Commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command to detect current and anticipated threats.
(C)
An assessment of the infrastructure and ability of the Alaska Radar System to integrate into the broader North Warning System.
(D)
An assessment of the ability of the North Warning System to integrate with current and anticipated space-based sensor platforms.
(b)
Report on plan for modernization
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth a plan for the modernization of the capabilities provided by the current North Warning System.
(2)
Elements
The plan under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A detailed timeline for the modernization of the North Warning System based on the status of the system as reported pursuant to subsection (a).
(B)
The technological advancements necessary for ground-based North Warning System sites to address current and anticipated threats (as specified by the Commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command).
(C)
An assessment of the number of future North Warning System sites required in order to address current and anticipated threats (as so specified).
(D)
Any new or complementary technologies required to accomplish the mission of the North Warning System.
(E)
The cost and schedule, by year, of the plan.
1063.
Studies on the force structure for Marine Corps aviation
(a)
Studies required
The Secretary of Defense shall provide for performance of three studies on the force structure for Marine Corps aviation through 2030.
(b)
Responsibility for studies
One of the three studies performed pursuant to subsection (a) shall be performed by each of the following:
(1)
The Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
(2)
An appropriate Federally funded research and development center (FFRDC), as selected by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(3)
An appropriate organization described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such code, as selected by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(c)
Performance
(1)
Independent performance
Each study performed pursuant to subsection (a) shall be performed independently of each other such study,
(2)
Matters To be considered
In performing a study pursuant to subsection, the officer or entity performing the study take into account, within the context of the current force structure for Marine Corps aviation, the following:
(A)
The 2018 National Defense Strategy and the 2018 National Military Strategy.
(B)
The Marine Corps Force Design 2030.
(C)
Potential roles and missions for Marine Corps aviation given new operating concepts for the Marine Corps.
(D)
The potential for increased requirements for survivable and dispersed strike aircraft.
(E)
The potential for increased requirements for tactical or intratheater lift, amphibious lift, or surface connectors.
(d)
Study results
The results of each study performed pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The various force structures for Marine Corps aviation through 2030 considered under such study, together with the assumptions and possible scenarios identified for each such force structure.
(2)
A recommendation for the force structure for Marine Corps aviation through 2030, including the following in connection with such force structure:
(A)
Numbers and type of aviation assets, numbers and types of associated unmanned assets, and basic capabilities of each such asset.
(B)
A description and assessment of the deviation of such force structure from the most recent Marine Corps Aviation Plan.
(C)
Any other information required for assessment of such force structure, including supporting analysis.
(3)
A presentation and discussion of minority views among participants in such study.
(e)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than April 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the results of each study performed pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Form
The report under this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
1064.
Study on unemployment rate of female veterans who served on active duty in the Armed Forces after September 11, 2001
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor, shall conduct a study on why Post-9/11 Veterans who are female are at higher risk of unemployment than all other groups of female veterans and their non-veteran counterparts.
(2)
Conduct of study
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall conduct the study under paragraph (1) primarily through the Center for Women Veterans under section 318 of title 38, United States Code.
(B)
Consultation
In carrying out the study conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary may consult with—
(i)
other Federal agencies, such as the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management, and the Small Business Administration;
(ii)
foundations; and
(iii)
entities in the private sector.
(3)
Elements of study
The study conducted under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to Post-9/11 Veterans who are female, at a minimum, an analysis of the following:
(A)
Rank at time of separation from the Armed Forces.
(B)
Geographic location upon such separation.
(C)
Educational level upon such separation.
(D)
The percentage of such veterans who enrolled in an education or employment training program of the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Labor after such separation.
(E)
Industries that have employed such veterans.
(F)
Military occupational specialties available to such veterans.
(G)
Barriers to employment of such veterans.
(H)
Causes to fluctuations in employment of such veterans.
(I)
Current employment training programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Labor that are available to such veterans.
(J)
Economic indicators that impact unemployment of such veterans.
(K)
Health conditions of such veterans that could impact employment.
(L)
Whether there are differences in the analyses conducted under subparagraphs (A) through (K) based on the race of such veteran.
(M)
The difference between unemployment rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are female compared to unemployment rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are male, including an analysis of potential causes of such difference.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after completing the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on such study.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
The analyses conducted under subsection (a)(3).
(B)
A description of the methods used to conduct the study under subsection (a).
(C)
Such other matters relating to the unemployment rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are female as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(c)
Post-9/11 Veteran defined
In this section, the term
Post-9/11 Veteran
means a veteran who served on active duty in the Armed Forces on or after September 11, 2001.
1065.
Report on Great Lakes and inland waterways seaports
(a)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
containing the results of the review and an explanation of the methodology used for the review conducted pursuant to subsection (b) regarding the screening practices for foreign cargo arriving at seaports on the Great Lakes and inland waterways.
(2)
Form
The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, to the maximum extent possible, but may include a classified annex, if necessary.
(b)
Scope of review
(1)
Seaport selection
In selecting seaports on inland waterways to include in the review under this subsection, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that the inland waterways seaports are—
(A)
equal in number to the Great Lakes seaports included in the review;
(B)
comparable to Great Lakes seaports included in the review, as measured by number of imported shipments arriving at the seaport each year; and
(C)
covered by at least the same number of Field Operations offices as the Great Lakes seaports included in the review, but are not covered by the same Field Operations offices as such Great Lakes seaports.
(2)
Elements
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct a review of all Great Lakes and selected inland waterways seaports that receive international cargo—
(A)
to determine, for each such seaport—
(i)
the current screening capability, including the types and numbers of screening equipment and whether such equipment is physically located at a seaport or assigned and available in the area and made available to use;
(ii)
the number of U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel assigned from a Field Operations office, broken out by role;
(iii)
the expenditures for procurement and overtime incurred by U.S. Customs and Border Protection during the most recent fiscal year;
(iv)
the types of cargo received, such as containerized, break-bulk, and bulk;
(v)
the legal entity that owns the seaport;
(vi)
a description of U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s use of space at the seaport, including—
(I)
whether U.S. Customs and Border Protection or the General Services Administration owns or leases any facilities; and
(II)
if U.S. Customs and Border Protection is provided space at the seaport, a description of such space, including the number of workstations; and
(vii)
the current cost-sharing arrangement for screening technology or reimbursable services;
(B)
to identify, for each Field Operations office—
(i)
any ports of entry that are staffed remotely from service ports;
(ii)
the distance of each such service port from the corresponding ports of entry; and
(iii)
the number of officers and the types of equipment U.S. Customs and Border Protection utilizes to screen cargo entering or exiting through such ports; and
(C)
that includes a threat assessment of incoming containerized and noncontainerized cargo at Great Lakes seaports and selected inland waterways seaports.
1066.
Report on the Chemical and Biological Defense Program of the Department of Defense
(a)
Report required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the Chemical and Biological Defense Program of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the significance of the Chemical and Biological Defense Program within the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
(2)
A description and assessment of the threats the Chemical and Biological Defense Program is designed to address.
(3)
An assessment of the capacity of current Chemical and Biological Defense Program facilities to complete their missions if funding levels for the Program are reduced.
(4)
An estimate of the length of time required to return the Chemical and Biological Defense Program to its current capacity if funding levels reduced for the Program as described in paragraph (3) are restored.
(5)
An assessment of the threat posed to members of the Armed Forces as a result of a reduction in testing of gear for field readiness by the Chemical and Biological Defense Program by reason of reduced funding levels for the Program.
(6)
A description and assessment of the necessity of Non Traditional Agent Defense Testing under the Chemical and Biological Defense Program for Individual Protection Systems, Collective Protection Systems, field decontamination systems, and chemical agent detectors.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in classified form, available for review by any Member of Congress, but shall include an unclassified summary.
1067.
Report on round-the-clock availability of childcare for members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense who work rotating shifts
(a)
In general
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the results of a study, conducted by the Secretary for purposes of the report, on the feasibility and advisability of making round-the-clock childcare available for children of members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense who works on rotating shifts at military installations.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
The results of the study described in that subsection.
(2)
If the Secretary determines that making round-the-clock childcare available as described in subsection (a) is feasible and advisable, such matters as the Secretary considers appropriate in connection with making such childcare available, including—
(A)
an identification of the installations at which such childcare would be beneficial to members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department, or both;
(B)
an identification of any barriers to making such childcare available at the installations identified pursuant to subparagraph (A);
(C)
an assessment whether the childcare needs of members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department described in subsection (a) would be better met by an increase in assistance for childcare fees;
(D)
a description and assessment of the actions, if any, being taken to make such childcare available at the installations identified pursuant to subparagraph (A); and
(E)
such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to make such childcare available at the installations identified pursuant to subparagraph (A), or at any other military installations.
G
Other Matters
1081.
Department of Defense strategic Arctic ports
(a)
Report
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth an updated assessment of the estimated cost of constructing, maintaining, and operating a strategic port in the Arctic at each potential site evaluated in the report pursuant to section 1752(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
). The report under this subsection shall include, for each potential site at which construction of such a port could be completed by 2030, an estimate of the number of days per year that such port would be usable by vessels of the Navy and the Coast Guard.
(b)
Designation of strategic Arctic ports
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the report required by subsection (a) is submitted, the Secretary of Defense may, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, designate one or more ports as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports from the sites identified in the report referred to in subsection (a).
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize any additional appropriations for the Department of Defense for the establishment of any port designated pursuant to this section.
(d)
Arctic defined
In this section, the term
Arctic
has the meaning given that term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (
15 U.S.C. 4111
).
1082.
Personal protective equipment matters
(a)
Briefings on fielding of newest generations of PPE to the Armed Forces
(1)
Briefings required
Not later than January 31, 2021, each Secretary of a military department shall submit to Congress a briefing on the fielding of the newest generations of personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
(2)
Elements
Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include, for each Armed Force covered by such briefing, the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the fielding of newest generations of personal protective equipment to members of such Armed Force, including the following:
(i)
The number (aggregated by total number and by sex) of members of such Armed Force issued the Army Soldiers Protective System and the Modular Scalable Vest Generation II body armor as of December 31, 2020.
(ii)
The number (aggregated by total number and by sex) of members of such Armed Force issued Marine Corps Plate Carrier Generation III (PC Gen III) body armor as of that date.
(iii)
The number (aggregated by total number and by sex) of members of such Armed Force fitted with legacy personal protective equipment as of that date.
(B)
A description and assessment of the barriers, if any, to the fielding of such generations of equipment to such members.
(C)
A description and assessment of challenges in the fielding of such generations of equipment to such members, including cost overruns, contractor delays, and other challenges.
(b)
System for tracking data on injuries among members of the Armed Forces in use of newest generation PPE
(1)
System required
(A)
In general
The Director of the Defense Health Agency (DHA) shall develop and maintain a system for tracking data on injuries among members of the Armed Forces in and during the use of newest generation personal protective equipment.
(B)
Scope of system
The system required by this paragraph may, at the election of the Director, be new for purposes of this subsection or within or a modification of an appropriate existing system (such as the Defense Occupational And Environmental Health Readiness System (DOEHRS)).
(2)
Briefing
Not later than January 31, 2025, the Director shall submit to Congress a briefing on the prevalence among members of the Armed Forces of preventable injuries attributable to ill-fitting or malfunctioning personal protective equipment.
(c)
Assessments of members of the Armed Forces of injuries incurred in connection with ill-fitting or malfunctioning PPE
(1)
In general
Each health assessment specified in paragraph (2) that is undertaken after the date of the enactment of this Act shall include the following:
(A)
One or more questions on whether members incurred an injury in connection with ill-fitting or malfunctioning personal protective equipment during the period covered by such assessment, including the nature of such injury.
(B)
In the case members who have so incurred such an injury, one or more elements of self-evaluation of such injury by such members for purposes of facilitating timely documentation and enhanced monitoring of such members and injuries.
(2)
Assessments
The health assessments specified in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
The annual Periodic Health Assessment (PHA) of members of the Armed Forces.
(B)
The post-deployment health assessment of members of the Armed Forces.
1083.
Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48
(a)
Limitation, estimate, and certification
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 may be used by the Secretary of Defense to comply with the Order and Authorization adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–48) until the Secretary—
(1)
submits to the congressional defense committees an estimate of the extent of covered costs and the range of eligible reimbursable costs associated with interference resulting from such order and authorization to the Global Positioning System of the Department of Defense; and
(2)
certifies to the congressional defense committees that the estimate submitted under paragraph (1) is accurate with a high degree of certainty.
(b)
Covered costs
For purposes of this section, covered costs include costs that would be incurred—
(1)
to upgrade, repair, or replace potentially affected receivers of the Federal Government;
(2)
to modify, repair, or replace equipment, spares, associated ancillary equipment, software, facilities, operating manuals, training, or compliance with regulations, including with regard to the underlying platform or system in which a capability of the Global Positioning System is embedded; and
(3)
for personnel of the Department to engineer, validate, and verify that any required remediation provides the Department with the same operational capability for the affected system prior to terrestrial operation in the 1525 to 1559 megahertz or 1626.5 to 1660.5 megahertz bands of electromagnetic spectrum.
(c)
Range of eligible reimbursable costs
For purposes of this section, the range of eligible reimbursable costs includes—
(1)
costs associated with engineering, equipment, software, site acquisition, and construction;
(2)
any transaction expense that the Secretary determines is legitimate and prudent;
(3)
costs relating to term-limited Federal civil servant and contractor staff; and
(4)
the costs of research, engineering studies, or other expenses the Secretary determines reasonably incurred.
1084.
Modernization effort
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information;
(2)
the term
covered agency
—
(A)
means any Federal entity that the Assistant Secretary determines is appropriate; and
(B)
includes the Department of Defense;
(3)
the term
Federal entity
has the meaning given the term in section 113(l) of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (
47 U.S.C. 923(l)
);
(4)
the term
Federal spectrum
means frequencies assigned on a primary basis to a covered agency;
(5)
the term
infrastructure
means information technology systems and information technologies, tools, and databases; and
(6)
the term
NTIA
means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
(b)
Initial interagency spectrum information technology coordination
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the Policy and Plans Steering Group, shall identify a process to establish goals, including parameters to measure the achievement of those goals, for the modernization of the infrastructure of covered agencies relating to managing the use of Federal spectrum by those agencies, which shall include—
(1)
the standardization of data inputs, modeling algorithms, modeling and simulation processes, analysis tools with respect to Federal spectrum, assumptions, and any other tool to ensure interoperability and functionality with respect to that infrastructure;
(2)
other potential innovative technological capabilities with respect to that infrastructure, including cloud-based databases, artificial intelligence technologies, automation, and improved modeling and simulation capabilities;
(3)
ways to improve the management of covered agencies’ use of Federal spectrum through that infrastructure, including by—
(A)
increasing the efficiency of that infrastructure;
(B)
addressing validation of usage with respect to that infrastructure;
(C)
increasing the accuracy of that infrastructure;
(D)
validating models used by that infrastructure; and
(E)
monitoring and enforcing requirements that are imposed on covered agencies with respect to the use of Federal spectrum by covered agencies;
(4)
ways to improve the ability of covered agencies to meet mission requirements in congested environments with respect to Federal spectrum, including as part of automated adjustments to operations based on changing conditions in those environments;
(5)
the creation of a time-based automated mechanism—
(A)
to share Federal spectrum between covered agencies to collaboratively and dynamically increase access to Federal spectrum by those agencies; and
(B)
that could be scaled across Federal spectrum; and
(6)
the collaboration between covered agencies necessary to ensure the interoperability of Federal spectrum.
(c)
Spectrum information technology modernization
(1)
In general
Not later than 240 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that contains the plan of the NTIA to modernize and automate the infrastructure of the NTIA relating to managing the use of Federal spectrum by covered agencies so as to more efficiently manage that use.
(2)
Contents
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
an assessment of the current, as of the date on which the report is submitted, infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph;
(B)
an acquisition strategy for the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph, including how that modernized infrastructure will enable covered agencies to be more efficient and effective in the use of Federal spectrum;
(C)
a timeline for the implementation of the modernization efforts described in that paragraph;
(D)
plans detailing how the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph will—
(i)
enhance the security and reliability of that infrastructure so that such infrastructure satisfies the requirements of subchapter II of
chapter 35
of title 44, United States Code;
(ii)
improve data models and analysis tools to increase the efficiency of the spectrum use described in that paragraph;
(iii)
enhance automation and workflows, and reduce the scope and level of manual effort, in order to—
(I)
administer the management of the spectrum use described in that paragraph; and
(II)
improve data quality and processing time; and
(iv)
improve the timeliness of spectrum analyses and requests for information, including requests submitted pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code;
(E)
an operations and maintenance plan with respect to the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph;
(F)
a strategy for coordination between the covered agencies within the Policy and Plans Steering Group, which shall include—
(i)
a description of—
(I)
those coordination efforts, as in effect on the date on which the report is submitted; and
(II)
a plan for coordination of those efforts after the date on which the report is submitted, including with respect to the efforts described in subsection (d);
(ii)
a plan for standardizing—
(I)
electromagnetic spectrum analysis tools;
(II)
modeling and simulation processes and technologies; and
(III)
databases to provide technical interference assessments that are usable across the Federal Government as part of a common spectrum management infrastructure for covered agencies;
(iii)
a plan for each covered agency to implement a modernization plan described in subsection (d)(1) that is tailored to the particular timeline of the agency;
(G)
identification of manually intensive processes involved in managing Federal spectrum and proposed enhancements to those processes;
(H)
metrics to evaluate the success of the modernization efforts described in that paragraph and any similar future efforts; and
(I)
an estimate of the cost of the modernization efforts described in that paragraph and any future maintenance with respect to the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph, including the cost of any personnel and equipment relating to that maintenance.
(d)
Interagency inputs
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the head of each covered agency shall submit to the Assistant Secretary and the Policy and Plans Steering Group a report that describes the plan of the agency to modernize the infrastructure of the agency with respect to the use of Federal spectrum by the agency so that such modernized infrastructure of the agency is interoperable with the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA, as described in subsection (c).
(2)
Contents
Each report submitted by the head of a covered agency under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
include—
(i)
an assessment of the current, as of the date on which the report is submitted, management capabilities of the agency with respect to the use of frequencies that are assigned to the agency, which shall include a description of any challenges faced by the agency with respect to that management;
(ii)
a timeline for completion of the modernization efforts described in that paragraph; and
(iii)
a description of potential innovative technological capabilities for the management of frequencies that are assigned to the agency, as determined under subsection (b);
(iv)
identification of agency-specific requirements or constraints relating to the infrastructure of the agency;
(v)
identification of any existing, as of the date on which the report is submitted, systems of the agency that are duplicative of the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA, as proposed under subsection (c); and
(vi)
with respect to the report submitted by the Secretary of Defense—
(I)
a strategy for the integration of systems or the flow of data among the Armed Forces, the military departments, the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities, and other components of the Department of Defense;
(II)
a plan for the implementation of solutions to the use of Federal spectrum by the Department of Defense involving information at multiple levels of classification; and
(III)
a strategy for addressing, within the modernized infrastructure of the Department of Defense described in that paragraph, the exchange of information between the Department of Defense and the NTIA in order to accomplish required processing of all Department of Defense domestic spectrum coordination and management activities; and
(B)
be submitted in an unclassified format, with a classified annex, as appropriate.
(3)
Notification of Congress
Upon submission of the report required under paragraph (1), the head of each covered agency shall notify Congress that the head of the covered agency has submitted the report.
(e)
GAO oversight
The Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, conduct a review of the infrastructure of covered agencies, as that infrastructure exists on the date of enactment of this Act;
(2)
after all of the reports required under subsection (d) have been submitted, conduct oversight of the implementation of the modernization plans submitted by the NTIA and covered agencies under subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(3)
not later than 1 year after the date on which the Comptroller General begins conducting oversight under paragraph (2), and annually thereafter, submit a report regarding that oversight to—
(A)
with respect to the implementation of the modernization plan of the Department of Defense, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
with respect to the implementation of the modernization plans of all covered agencies, including the Department of Defense, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(4)
provide regular briefings to—
(A)
with respect to the application of this section to the Department of Defense, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
with respect to the application of this section to all covered agencies, including the Department of Defense, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
1085.
Sense of Senate on Gold Star Families Remembrance Week
(a)
Findings
The Senate makes the following findings:
(1)
The last Sunday in September—
(A)
is designated as
Gold Star Mother’s Day
under section 111 of title 36, United States Code; and
(B)
was first designated as
Gold Star Mother’s Day
under the Joint Resolution entitled
Joint Resolution designating the last Sunday in September as
Gold Star Mother's Day
, and for other purposes
, approved June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895).
(2)
There is no date dedicated to families affected by the loss of a loved one who died in service to the United States.
(3)
A gold star symbolizes a family member who died in the line of duty while serving in the Armed Forces.
(4)
The members and veterans of the Armed Forces, through their service, bear the burden of protecting the freedom of the people of the United States.
(5)
The selfless example of the service of the members and veterans of the Armed Forces, as well as the sacrifices made by the families of those individuals, inspires all individuals in the United States to sacrifice and work diligently for the good of the United States.
(6)
The sacrifices of the families of the fallen members of the Armed Forces and the families of veterans of the Armed Forces should never be forgotten.
(b)
Sense of the Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Senate—
(1)
designates the week of September 20 through September 26, 2020, as
Gold Star Families Remembrance Week
;
(2)
honors and recognizes the sacrifices made by—
(A)
the families of members of the Armed Forces who made the ultimate sacrifice in order to defend freedom and protect the United States; and
(B)
the families of veterans of the Armed Forces; and
(3)
encourages the people of the United States to observe Gold Star Families Remembrance Week by—
(A)
performing acts of service and good will in their communities; and
(B)
celebrating families in which loved ones made the ultimate sacrifice so that others could continue to enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
1086.
Continuity of the Economy Plan
(a)
Requirement
(1)
In general
The President shall develop and maintain a plan to maintain and restore the economy of the United States in response to a significant event.
(2)
Principles
The plan required under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
be consistent with—
(i)
a free market economy; and
(ii)
the rule of law; and
(B)
respect private property rights.
(3)
Contents
The plan required under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
examine the distribution of goods and services across the United States necessary for the reliable functioning of the United States during a significant event;
(B)
identify the economic functions of relevant actors, the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of which would have a debilitating effect in the United States on—
(i)
security;
(ii)
economic security;
(iii)
defense readiness; or
(iv)
public health or safety;
(C)
identify the critical distribution mechanisms for each economic sector that should be prioritized for operation during a significant event, including—
(i)
bulk power and electric transmission systems;
(ii)
national and international financial systems, including wholesale payments, stocks, and currency exchanges;
(iii)
national and international communications networks, data-hosting services, and cloud services;
(iv)
interstate oil and natural gas pipelines; and
(v)
mechanisms for the interstate and international trade and distribution of materials, food, and medical supplies, including road, rail, air, and maritime shipping;
(D)
identify economic functions of relevant actors, the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of which would cause—
(i)
catastrophic economic loss;
(ii)
the loss of public confidence; or
(iii)
the widespread imperilment of human life;
(E)
identify the economic functions of relevant actors that are so vital to the economy of the United States that the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of those economic functions would undermine response, recovery, or mobilization efforts during a significant event;
(F)
incorporate, to the greatest extent practicable, the principles and practices contained within Federal plans for the continuity of Government and continuity of operations;
(G)
identify—
(i)
industrial control networks on which the interests of national security outweigh the benefits of dependence on internet connectivity, including networks that are required to maintain defense readiness; and
(ii)
for each industrial control network described in clause (i), the most feasible and optimal locations for the installation of—
(I)
parallel services;
(II)
stand-alone analog services; and
(III)
services that are otherwise hardened against failure;
(H)
identify critical economic sectors for which the preservation of data in a protected, verified, and uncorrupted status would be required for the quick recovery of the economy of the United States in the face of a significant disruption following a significant event;
(I)
include a list of raw materials, industrial goods, and other items, the absence of which would significantly undermine the ability of the United States to sustain the functions described in subparagraphs (B), (D), and (E);
(J)
provide an analysis of supply chain diversification for the items described in subparagraph (I) in the event of a disruption caused by a significant event;
(K)
include—
(i)
a recommendation as to whether the United States should maintain a strategic reserve of 1 or more of the items described in subparagraph (I); and
(ii)
for each item described in subparagraph (I) for which the President recommends maintaining a strategic reserve under clause (i), an identification of mechanisms for tracking inventory and availability of the item in the strategic reserve;
(L)
identify mechanisms in existence on the date of enactment of this Act and mechanisms that can be developed to ensure that the swift transport and delivery of the items described in subparagraph (I) is feasible in the event of a distribution network disturbance or degradation, including a distribution network disturbance or degradation caused by a significant event;
(M)
include guidance for determining the prioritization for the distribution of the items described in subparagraph (I), including distribution to States and Indian Tribes;
(N)
consider the advisability and feasibility of mechanisms for extending the credit of the United States or providing other financial support authorized by law to key participants in the economy of the United States if the extension or provision of other financial support—
(i)
is necessary to avoid severe economic degradation; or
(ii)
allows for the recovery from a significant event;
(O)
include guidance for determining categories of employees that should be prioritized to continue to work in order to sustain the functions described in subparagraphs (B), (D), and (E) in the event that there are limitations on the ability of individuals to travel to workplaces or to work remotely, including considerations for defense readiness;
(P)
identify critical economic sectors necessary to provide material and operational support to the defense of the United States;
(Q)
determine whether the Secretary of Homeland Security, the National Guard, and the Secretary of Defense have adequate authority to assist the United States in a recovery from a severe economic degradation caused by a significant event;
(R)
review and assess the authority and capability of heads of other agencies that the President determines necessary to assist the United States in a recovery from a severe economic degradation caused by a significant event; and
(S)
consider any other matter that would aid in protecting and increasing the resilience of the economy of the United States from a significant event.
(b)
Coordination
In developing the plan required under subsection (a)(1), the President shall—
(1)
receive advice from—
(A)
the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(B)
the Secretary of Defense;
(C)
the Secretary of the Treasury;
(D)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(E)
the Secretary of Commerce;
(F)
the Secretary of Transportation;
(G)
the Secretary of Energy;
(H)
the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; and
(I)
the head of any other agency that the President determines necessary to complete the plan;
(2)
consult with economic sectors relating to critical infrastructure through sector-coordinated councils, as appropriate;
(3)
consult with relevant State, Tribal, and local governments and organizations that represent those governments; and
(4)
consult with any other non-Federal entity that the President determines necessary to complete the plan.
(c)
Submission to Congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 3 years thereafter, the President shall submit the plan required under subsection (a)(1) and the information described in paragraph (2) to—
(A)
the majority and minority leaders of the Senate;
(B)
the Speaker and the minority leader of the House of Representatives;
(C)
the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(D)
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
(E)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(F)
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
;
(G)
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(H)
the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate
;
(I)
the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives
;
(J)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
;
(K)
the
Committee on Finance of the Senate
;
(L)
the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives
;
(M)
the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
(N)
the
Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives
;
(O)
the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
;
(P)
the
Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate
; and
(Q)
any other committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives that has jurisdiction over the subject of the plan.
(2)
Additional information
The information described in this paragraph is—
(A)
any change to Federal law that would be necessary to carry out the plan required under subsection (a)(1); and
(B)
any proposed changes to the funding levels provided in appropriation Acts for the most recent fiscal year that can be implemented in future appropriation Acts or additional resources necessary to—
(i)
implement the plan required under subsection (a)(1); or
(ii)
maintain any program offices and personnel necessary to—
(I)
maintain the plan required under subsection (a)(1) and the plans described in subsection (a)(3)(F); and
(II)
conduct exercises, assessments, and updates to the plans described in subclause (I) over time.
(3)
Budget of the President
The President may include the information described in paragraph (2)(B) in the budget required to be submitted by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
The term
economic sector
means a sector of the economy of the United States.
(3)
The term
relevant actor
means—
(A)
the Federal government;
(B)
a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(C)
the private sector.
(4)
The term
significant event
means an event that causes severe degradation to economic activity in the United States due to—
(A)
a cyber attack; or
(B)
another significant event that is natural or human-caused.
(5)
The term
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States.
1087.
Improving the authority for operations of unmanned aircraft for educational purposes
Section 350 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–254
; 49 U.S.C 44809 note) is amended
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
at institutions of higher education
and inserting
for educational purposes
; and
(2)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
aircraft system operated by
and inserting the following: “aircraft system—
(1)
operated by
;
(B)
in paragraph (1), as added by subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
flown as part of the established curriculum of an elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
));
(3)
flown as part of an established Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC) program; or
(4)
flown as part of an educational program that is chartered by a recognized community-based organization (as defined in subsection (h) of such section).
.
1088.
Requirement to post a 100 word summary to regulations.gov
Section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)
,
by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
(4)
the Internet address of a summary of not more than 100 words in length of the proposed rule, in plain language, that shall be posted on the Internet website under section 206(d) of the E-Government Act of 2002 (
44 U.S.C. 3501
note) (commonly known as regulations.gov).
.
1089.
Modification of licensure requirements for health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine
Section 1730C(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Covered health care professionals
For purposes of this section, a covered health care professional is any of the following individuals:
(1)
A health care professional who—
(A)
is an employee of the Department appointed under section 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this title or title 5;
(B)
is authorized by the Secretary to provide health care under this chapter;
(C)
is required to adhere to all standards for quality relating to the provision of health care in accordance with applicable policies of the Department; and
(D)
(i)
has an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, or certification in a State to practice the health care profession of the health care professional; or
(ii)
with respect to a health care profession listed under section 7402(b) of this title, has the qualifications for such profession as set forth by the Secretary.
(2)
A postgraduate health care employee who—
(A)
is appointed under section 7401(1), 7401(3), or 7405 of this title or title 5 for any category of personnel described in paragraph (1) or (3) of section 7401 of this title;
(B)
must obtain an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, or certification or meet qualification standards set forth by the Secretary within a specified time frame; and
(C)
is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional described in paragraph (1); or
(3)
A health professions trainee who—
(A)
is appointed under section 7405 or 7406 of this title; and
(B)
is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional described in paragraph (1).
.
1090.
Restrictions on Confucius Institutes
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
Confucius Institute
means a cultural institute directly or indirectly funded by the Government of the People’s Republic of China.
(b)
Restrictions on Confucius Institutes
An institution of higher education or other postsecondary educational institution (referred to in this section as an
institution
) shall not be eligible to receive Federal funds from the Department of Education (except funds under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1070
et seq.) or other Department of Education funds that are provided directly to students) unless the institution ensures that any contract or agreement between the institution and a Confucius Institute includes clear provisions that—
(1)
protect academic freedom at the institution;
(2)
prohibit the application of any foreign law on any campus of the institution; and
(3)
grant full managerial authority of the Confucius Institute to the institution, including full control over what is being taught, the activities carried out, the research grants that are made, and who is employed at the Confucius Institute.
1090A.
Additional care for newborn children of veterans
Section 1786 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by striking
The Secretary
and inserting
Except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(c)
Exception based on medical necessity
Pursuant to such regulations as the Secretary shall prescribe to carry out this section, the Secretary may furnish more than seven days of health care services described in subsection (b), and may furnish transportation necessary to receive such services, to a newborn child based on medical necessity if the child is in need of additional care, including if the child has been discharged or released from a hospital and requires readmittance to ensure the health and welfare of the child.
.
1090B.
Additional diseases associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents for which there is a presumption of service connection for veterans who served in the Republic of Vietnam
Section 1116(a)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(I)
Parkinsonism.
(J)
Bladder cancer.
(K)
Hypothyroidism.
.
H
Wireless supply chain innovation and multilateral security
1091.
Definitions
In this subtitle:
(1)
3GPP
The term
3GPP
means the Third Generation Partnership Project.
(2)
5G network
The term
5G network
means a radio network as described by 3GPP Release 15 or higher.
(3)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(4)
NTIA Administrator
The term
NTIA Administrator
means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
(5)
Open-RAN
The term
Open-RAN
means the Open Radio Access Network approach to standardization adopted by the O-RAN Alliance, Telecom Infra Project, or 3GPP, or any similar set of open standards for multi-vendor network equipment interoperability.
(6)
Relevant committees of Congress
The term
relevant committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(C)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(D)
the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(E)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
(F)
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
(G)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives;
(H)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;
(I)
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;
(J)
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
(K)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(L)
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
1092.
Communications technology security funds
(a)
Use of Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Fund
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall transfer from the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Fund established under section 309(j)(8)(E) of the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(E)
)—
(1)
$50,000,000 to the Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund established under subsection (b) of this section; and
(2)
$25,000,000 to the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund established under subsection (c) of this section.
(b)
Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund
(1)
Establishment
(A)
In general
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the
Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund
(referred to in this subsection as the
R&D Fund
).
(B)
Availability
(i)
In general
Amounts deposited in the R&D Fund shall remain available through the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.
(ii)
Remainder to Treasury
Any amounts remaining in the R&D Fund after the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(2)
Use of fund
(A)
In general
Amounts deposited in the R&D Fund shall be available to the NTIA Administrator to make grants under this subsection in such amounts as the NTIA Administrator determines appropriate, subject to subparagraph (B) of this subparagraph.
(B)
Limitation on grant amounts
The amount of a grant awarded under this subsection to a recipient for a specific research focus area may not exceed $50,000,000.
(3)
Administration of fund
The NTIA Administrator, in consultation with the Commission, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, shall establish criteria for grants awarded under this subsection, and administer the R&D Fund, to support research and the commercial application of that research, including in the following areas:
(A)
Promoting the development of technology, including software, hardware, and microprocessing technology, that will enhance competitiveness in the fifth-generation (commonly known as
5G
) and successor wireless technology supply chains.
(B)
Accelerating development and deployment of open interface standards-based compatible, interoperable equipment, such as equipment developed pursuant to the standards set forth by organizations such as the O-RAN Alliance, the Telecom Infra Project, 3GPP, the Open-RAN Software Community, or any successor organizations.
(C)
Promoting compatibility of new 5G equipment with future open standards-based, interoperable equipment.
(D)
Managing integration of multi-vendor network environments.
(E)
Objective criteria to define equipment as compliant with open standards for multi-vendor network equipment interoperability.
(F)
Promoting development and inclusion of security features enhancing the integrity and availability of equipment in multi-vendor networks.
(G)
Promoting the application of network function virtualization to facilitate multi-vendor interoperability and a more diverse vendor market.
(4)
Nonduplication of research
To the greatest extent practicable, the NTIA Administrator shall ensure that any research funded by a grant awarded under this subsection avoids duplication of other Federal or private sector research.
(5)
Timing
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the NTIA Administrator shall begin awarding grants under this subsection.
(6)
Federal advisory body
(A)
Establishment
The NTIA Administrator shall establish a Federal advisory committee, in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), composed of government and private sector experts, to advise the NTIA Administrator on the administration of the R&D Fund.
(B)
Composition
The advisory committee established under subparagraph (A) shall be composed of—
(i)
representatives from—
(I)
the Commission;
(II)
the Department of Defense;
(III)
the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;
(IV)
the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
(V)
the Department of State;
(VI)
the National Science Foundation; and
(VII)
the Department of Homeland Security; and
(ii)
other representatives from the private and public sectors, at the discretion of the NTIA Administrator.
(C)
Duties
The advisory committee established under subparagraph (A) shall advise the NTIA Administrator on technology developments to help inform—
(i)
the strategic direction of the R&D Fund; and
(ii)
efforts of the Federal Government to promote a more secure, diverse, sustainable, and competitive supply chain.
(7)
Reports to Congress
(A)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the NTIA Administrator shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a report with—
(i)
additional recommendations on promoting the competitiveness and sustainability of trusted suppliers in the wireless supply chain; and
(ii)
any additional authorities needed to facilitate the timely adoption of open standards-based equipment, including authority to provide loans, loan guarantees, and other forms of credit extension that would maximize the use of designated funds.
(B)
Annual report
For each fiscal year for which amounts in the R&D Fund are available under this subsection, the NTIA Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that—
(i)
describes how, and to whom, amounts in the R&D Fund have been deployed;
(ii)
details the progress of the NTIA Administrator in meeting the objectives described in paragraph (3); and
(iii)
includes any additional information that the NTIA Administrator determines appropriate.
(c)
Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund
(1)
Establishment of Fund
(A)
In general
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the
Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund
.
(B)
Use of fund
Amounts deposited in the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund shall be available to the Secretary of State to make expenditures under this subsection in such amounts as the Secretary of State determines appropriate.
(C)
Availability
(i)
In general
Amounts deposited in the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund—
(I)
shall remain available through the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act; and
(II)
may only be allocated upon the Secretary of State reaching an agreement with foreign government partners to participate in the common funding mechanism described in paragraph (2).
(ii)
Remainder to Treasury
Any amounts remaining in the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund after the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(2)
Administration of Fund
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the NTIA Administrator, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Commission, shall establish a common funding mechanism, in coordination with foreign partners, that uses amounts from the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund to support the development and adoption of secure and trusted telecommunications technologies.
(3)
Annual report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for each fiscal year during which amounts in the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund are available, the Secretary of State shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a report on the status and progress of the funding mechanism established under paragraph (2), including—
(A)
any funding commitments from foreign partners, including each specific amount committed;
(B)
governing criteria for use of the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund;
(C)
an account of—
(i)
how, and to whom, funds have been deployed;
(ii)
amounts remaining in the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund; and
(iii)
the progress of the Secretary of State in meeting the objective described in paragraph (2); and
(D)
additional authorities needed to enhance the effectiveness of the Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund in achieving the security goals of the United States.
1093.
Promoting United States leadership in international organizations and communications standards-setting bodies
(a)
In general
The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chairman of the Commission, or their designees, shall consider how to enhance representation of the United States at international forums that set standards for 5G networks and for future generations of wireless communications networks, including—
(1)
the International Telecommunication Union (commonly known as
ITU
);
(2)
the International Organization for Standardization (commonly known as
ISO
);
(3)
the Inter-American Telecommunications Commission (commonly known as
CITEL
); and
(4)
the voluntary standards organizations that develop protocols for wireless devices and other equipment, such as the 3GPP and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (commonly known as
IEEE
).
(b)
Annual report
The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chairman of the Commission shall jointly submit to the relevant committees of Congress an annual report on the progress made under subsection (a).
I
Semiconductor Manufacturing Incentives
1094.
Semiconductor incentive grants
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;
(2)
the term
covered entity
means a private entity, a consortium of private entities, or a consortium of public and private entities with a demonstrated ability to construct, expand, or modernize a facility relating to the fabrication, assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or advanced research and development of semiconductors;
(3)
the term
covered incentive
—
(A)
means an incentive offered by a governmental entity to a covered entity for the purposes of constructing within the jurisdiction of the governmental entity, or expanding or modernizing an existing facility within that jurisdiction, a facility described in paragraph (2); and
(B)
includes any tax incentive (such as an incentive or reduction with respect to employment or payroll taxes or a tax abatement with respect to personal or real property), a workforce-related incentive (including a grant agreement relating to workforce training or vocational education), any concession with respect to real property, funding for research and development with respect to semiconductors, and any other incentive determined appropriate by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(4)
the term
foreign adversary
means any foreign government or foreign nongovernment person that is engaged in a long-term pattern, or is involved in a serious instance, of conduct that is significantly adverse to—
(A)
the national security of the United States or an ally of the United States; or
(B)
the security and safety of United States persons;
(5)
the term
governmental entity
means a State or local government;
(6)
the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce; and
(7)
the term
semiconductor
has the meaning given the term by the Secretary.
(b)
Grant program
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish in the Department of Commerce a program that, in accordance with the requirements of this section, provides grants to covered entities.
(2)
Procedure
(A)
In general
A covered entity shall submit to the Secretary an application that describes the project for which the covered entity is seeking a grant under this section.
(B)
Eligibility
In order for a covered entity to qualify for a grant under this section, the covered entity shall demonstrate to the Secretary, in the application submitted by the covered entity under subparagraph (A), that—
(i)
the covered entity has a documented interest in constructing, expanding, or modernizing a facility described in subsection (a)(2); and
(ii)
with respect to the project described in clause (i), the covered entity has—
(I)
been offered a covered incentive;
(II)
made commitments to worker and community investment, including through—
(aa)
training and education benefits paid by the covered entity; and
(bb)
programs to expand employment opportunity for economically disadvantaged individuals; and
(III)
secured commitments from regional educational and training entities and institutions of higher education to provide workforce training, including programming for training and job placement of economically disadvantaged individuals.
(C)
Considerations for review
With respect to the review by the Secretary of an application submitted by a covered entity under subparagraph (A)—
(i)
the Secretary may not approve the application unless the Secretary—
(I)
confirms that the covered entity has satisfied the eligibility criteria under subparagraph (B); and
(II)
determines that the project to which the application relates is in the interest of the United States; and
(ii)
the Secretary may consider whether—
(I)
the covered entity has previously received a grant made under this subsection; and
(II)
the governmental entity offering the applicable covered incentive has benefitted from a grant previously made under this subsection.
(3)
Amount
The amount of a grant made by the Secretary to a covered entity under this subsection shall be in an amount that is not more than $3,000,000,000.
(4)
Use of funds
A covered entity that receives a grant under this subsection may only use the grant amounts to—
(A)
finance the construction, expansion, or modernization of a facility described in subsection (a)(2), as documented in the application submitted by the covered entity under paragraph (2)(A), or for similar uses in state of practice and legacy facilities, as determined necessary by the Secretary for purposes relating to the national security and economic competitiveness of the United States;
(B)
support workforce development for the facility described in subparagraph (A); or
(C)
support site development for the facility described in subparagraph (A).
(5)
Clawback
The Secretary shall recover the full amount of a grant provided to a covered entity under this subsection if—
(A)
as of the date that is 5 years after the date on which the Secretary makes the grant, the project to which the grant relates has not been completed, except that the Secretary may issue a waiver with respect to the requirement under this subparagraph if the Secretary determines that issuing such a waiver is appropriate and in the interests of the United States; or
(B)
during the applicable term with respect to the grant, the covered entity engages in any joint research or technology licensing effort—
(i)
with the Government of the People’s Republic of China, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of Iran, the Government of North Korea, or another foreign adversary; and
(ii)
that relates to a sensitive technology or product, as determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Consultation and coordination required
In carrying out the program established under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consult and coordinate with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense.
(d)
GAO reviews
The Comptroller General of the United States shall—
(1)
not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter until the date that is 10 years after that date of enactment, conduct a review of the program established under subsection (b), which shall include, at a minimum—
(A)
a determination of the number of instances in which grants were provided under that subsection during the period covered by the review in violation of a requirement of this section;
(B)
an evaluation of how—
(i)
the program is being carried out, including how recipients of grants are being selected under the program; and
(ii)
other Federal programs are leveraged for manufacturing, research, and training to complement the grants awarded under the program; and
(C)
a description of the outcomes of projects supported by grants made under the program, including a description of—
(i)
facilities described in subsection (a)(2) that were constructed, expanded, or modernized as a result of grants made under the program;
(ii)
research and development carried out with grants made under the program; and
(iii)
workforce training programs carried out with grants made under the program, including efforts to hire individuals from disadvantaged populations; and
(2)
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the results of each review conducted under paragraph (1).
1095.
Department of Defense
(a)
Department of Defense efforts
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, work with the private sector through a public-private partnership, including by incentivizing the formation of a consortium of United States companies, to ensure the development and production of advanced, measurably secure microelectronics for use by the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, critical infrastructure sectors, and other national security applications. Such work may include providing incentives for the creation, expansion, or modernization of one or more commercially competitive and sustainable microelectronics manufacturing or advanced research and development facilities.
(2)
Risk mitigation requirements
A participant in a consortium formed with incentives under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
have the potential to perform fabrication, assembly, package, or test functions for microelectronics deemed critical to national security as defined by export control regulatory agencies in consultation with the National Security Adviser and the Secretary of Defense;
(B)
include management processes to identify and mitigate supply chain security risks; and
(C)
be able to produce microelectronics consistent with applicable measurably secure supply chain and operational security standards established under section 224(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(3)
National security considerations
The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence shall select participants for the consortium formed with incentives under paragraph (1). In selecting such participants, the Secretary and the Director may jointly consider whether the United States companies—
(A)
have participated in previous programs and projects of the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, or the intelligence community, including—
(i)
the Trusted Integrated Circuit program of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity;
(ii)
trusted and assured microelectronics projects, as administered by the Department of Defense;
(iii)
the Electronics Resurgence Initiative (ERI) program of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; or
(iv)
relevant semiconductor research programs of Advanced Research Projects Agency–Energy;
(B)
have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to performing contracts for the Department of Defense and the intelligence community;
(C)
are approved by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency or the Office of the Director of National Intelligence as presenting an acceptable security risk, taking into account supply chain assurance vulnerabilities, counterintelligence risks, and any risks presented by companies whose owners are located outside the United States; and
(D)
are evaluated periodically for foreign ownership, control, or influence by foreign adversaries.
(4)
Nontraditional defense contractors and commercial entities
Arrangements entered into to carry out paragraph (1) shall be in such form as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate to encourage industry participation of nontraditional defense contractors or commercial entities and may include a contract, a grant, a cooperative agreement, a commercial agreement, the use of other transaction authority under section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, or another such arrangement.
(5)
Discharge
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out paragraph (1) jointly through the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, or such other component of the Department of Defense as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(6)
Other initiatives
The Secretary of Defense shall dedicate initiatives within the Department of Defense to advance radio frequency, mixed signal, radiation tolerant, and radiation hardened microelectronics that support national security and dual-use applications.
(7)
Reports
(A)
Report by Secretary of Defense
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the plans of the Secretary to carry out paragraph (1).
(B)
Biennial reports by Comptroller General of the United States
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary submits the report required by subparagraph (A) and not less frequently than once every 2 years thereafter for a period of 10 years, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on the activities carried out under this subsection.
(b)
Defense Production Act of 1950 efforts
(1)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report on a plan for use by the Department of Defense of authorities available in title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4531
et seq.) to establish and enhance a domestic production capability for microelectronics technologies and related technologies, subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose.
(2)
Consultation
The President shall develop the plan required by paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, and in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and appropriate stakeholders in the private sector.
1096.
Department of Commerce study on status of microelectronics technologies in the United States industrial base
(a)
In general
Commencing not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall undertake a review, which shall include a survey, using authorities in section 705 of the Defense Production Act (
50 U.S.C. 4555
), to assess the capabilities of the United States industrial base to support the national defense in light of the global nature of the supply chain and significant interdependencies between the United States industrial base and the industrial base of foreign countries with respect to the manufacture, design, and end use of microelectronics.
(b)
Response to survey
The Secretary shall ensure compliance with the survey from among all relevant potential respondents, including the following:
(1)
Corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other organized groups domiciled and with substantial operations in the United States.
(2)
Corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other organized groups domiciled in the United States with operations outside the United States.
(3)
Foreign domiciled corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other organized groups with substantial operations or business presence in, or substantial revenues derived from, the United States.
(4)
Foreign domiciled corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other organized groups in defense treaty or assistance countries where the production of the entity concerned involves critical technologies covered by section 2.
(c)
Information requested
The information sought from a responding entity pursuant to the survey required by subsection (a) shall include, at minimum, information on the following with respect to the manufacture. design, or end use of microelectronics by such entity:
(1)
An identification of the geographic scope of operations.
(2)
Information on relevant cost structures.
(3)
An identification of types of microelectronics development, manufacture, assembly, test, and packaging equipment in operation at such entity.
(4)
An identification of all relevant intellectual property, raw materials, and semi-finished goods and components sourced domestically and abroad by such entity.
(5)
Specifications of the microelectronics manufactured or designed by such entity, descriptions of the end-uses of such microelectronics, and a description of any technical support provided to end-users of such microelectronics by such entity.
(6)
Information on domestic and export market sales by such entity.
(7)
Information on the financial performance, including income and expenditures, of such entity.
(8)
A list of all foreign and domestic subsidies, and any other financial incentives, received by such entity in each market in which such entity operates.
(9)
A list of information requests from the People’s Republic of China to such entity, and a description of the nature of each request and the type of information provided.
(10)
Information on any joint ventures, technology licensing agreements, and cooperative research or production arrangements of such entity.
(11)
A description of efforts by such entity to evaluate and control supply chain risks it faces.
(12)
A list and description of any sales, licensing agreements, or partnerships between such entity and the People’s Liberation Army or People’s Armed Police, including any business relationships with entities through which such sales, licensing agreements, or partnerships may occur.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Commerce shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, submit to Congress a report on the results of the review required by subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of the results of the survey.
(B)
A list of critical technology areas impacted by potential disruptions in production of microelectronics, and a detailed description and assessment of the impact of such potential disruptions on such areas.
(C)
A description and assessment of gaps and vulnerabilities in the microelectronics supply chain and the national industrial supply base.
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) may be submitted in classified form.
1097.
Funding for development and adoption of measurably secure microelectronics and measurably secure microelectronics supply chains
(a)
Multilateral Microelectronics Security Fund
(1)
Establishment of fund
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund, to be known as the
Multilateral Microelectronics Security Fund
(in this section referred to as the
Fund
), consisting of such amounts as may be appropriated to such Fund and any amounts that may be credited to the Fund under paragraph (2).
(2)
Investment of amounts
(A)
Investment of amounts
The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such portion of the Fund as is not required to meet current withdrawals in interest-bearing obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States.
(B)
Interest and proceeds
The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to and form a part of the Fund.
(3)
Use of fund
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), amounts in the Fund shall be available, as provided in advance in an appropriations Act, to the Secretary of State—
(i)
to provide funding through the common funding mechanism described in subsection (b)(1) to support the development and adoption of measurably secure microelectronics and measurably secure microelectronics supply chains; and
(ii)
to otherwise carry out this section.
(B)
Availability contingent on international agreement
Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Secretary of State on and after the date on which the Secretary enters into an agreement with the governments of countries that are partners of the United States to participate in the common funding mechanism under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) and the commitments described in paragraph (2) of that subsection.
(4)
Availability of amounts
(A)
In general
Amounts in the Fund shall remain available through the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(B)
Remainder to treasury
Any amounts remaining in the Fund after the end of the fiscal year described in subparagraph (A) shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(b)
Common funding mechanism for development and adoption of measurably secure microelectronics and measurably secure microelectronics supply chains
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall seek to establish a common funding mechanism, in coordination with the governments of countries that are partners of the United States, that uses amounts from the Fund, and amounts committed by such governments, to support the development and adoption of secure microelectronics and secure microelectronics supply chains, including for use in research and development collaborations among countries participating in the common funding mechanism.
(2)
Mutual commitments
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce, shall seek to negotiate a set of mutual commitments with the governments of countries that are partners of the United States upon which to condition any expenditure of funds pursuant to the common funding mechanism described in paragraph (1). Such commitments shall, at a minimum—
(A)
establish transparency requirements for any subsidies or other financial benefits (including revenue foregone) provided to microelectronics firms located in or outside such countries;
(B)
establish consistent policies with respect to countries that—
(i)
are not participating in the common funding mechanism; and
(ii)
do not meet transparency requirements established under subparagraph (A);
(C)
promote harmonized treatment of microelectronics and verification processes for items being exported to a country considered a national security risk by a country participating in the common funding mechanism;
(D)
establish consistent policies and common external policies to address nonmarket economies as the behavior of such countries pertains to microelectronics;
(E)
align policies on supply chain integrity and microelectronics security, including with respect to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights; and
(F)
promote harmonized foreign direct investment screening measures with respect to microelectronics to align with national and multilateral security priorities.
(c)
Annual report to congress
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for each fiscal year during which amounts in the Fund are available under subsection (a)(4), the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a report on the status of the implementation of this section that includes a description of—
(1)
any commitments made by the governments of countries that are partners of the United States to providing funding for the common funding mechanism described in subsection (b)(1) and the specific amount so committed;
(2)
the criteria established for expenditure of funds through the common funding mechanism;
(3)
how, and to whom, amounts have been expended from the Fund;
(4)
amounts remaining in the Fund;
(5)
the progress of the Secretary of State toward entering into an agreement with the governments of countries that are partners of the United States to participate in the common funding mechanism and the commitments described in subsection (b)(2); and
(6)
any additional authorities needed to enhance the effectiveness of the Fund in achieving the security goals of the United States.
1098.
Advanced semiconductor research and design
(a)
Appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the leadership of the United States in semiconductor technology and innovation is critical to the economic growth and national security of the United States.
(c)
Subcommittee on semiconductor leadership
(1)
Establishment required
The President shall establish in the National Science and Technology Council a subcommittee on matters relating to leadership of the United States in semiconductor technology and innovation.
(2)
Duties
The duties of the subcommittee established under paragraph (1) are as follows:
(A)
National strategy on semiconductor research
(i)
Development
In coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and in consultation with the semiconductor industry and academia, develop a national strategy on semiconductor research, development, manufacturing, and supply chain security, including guidance for the funding of research, and strengthening of the domestic microelectronics workforce.
(ii)
Reporting and updates
Not less frequently than once every 5 years, to update the strategy developed under clause (i) and to submit the revised strategy to the appropriate committees of Congress.
(iii)
Implementation
In coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, on an annual basis coordinate and recommend each agency’s semiconductor related research and development programs and budgets to ensure consistency with the National Semiconductor Strategy.
(B)
Fostering coordination of research and development
To foster the coordination of semiconductor research and development.
(3)
Sunset
The subcommittee established under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(d)
Industrial Advisory Committee
The President shall establish a standing subcommittee of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology to advise the United States Government on matters relating to microelectronics policy.
(e)
National Semiconductor Technology Center
(1)
Establishment
The Secretary of Commerce shall establish a national semiconductor technology center to conduct research and prototyping of advanced semiconductor technology to strengthen the economic competitiveness and security of the domestic supply chain, which will be operated as a public private-sector consortium with participation from the private sector, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Science Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(2)
Functions
The functions of the center established under paragraph (1) shall be as follows:
(A)
To conduct advanced semiconductor manufacturing, design research and prototyping that strengthens the entire domestic ecosystem and is aligned with the National Strategy on Semiconductor Research.
(B)
To establish a National Advanced Packaging Manufacturing Program led by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in coordination with the Center, to strengthen semiconductor advanced test, assembly, and packaging capability in the domestic ecosystem, and which shall coordinate with the Manufacturing USA institute established under paragraph (4).
(C)
To establish an investment fund, in partnership with the private sector, to support startups in the domestic semiconductor ecosystem.
(D)
To establish a Semiconductor Manufacturing Program through the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology to enable advances and breakthroughs in measurement science, standards, material characterization, instrumentation, testing, and manufacturing capabilities that will accelerate the underlying research and development for metrology of next generation semiconductors and ensure the competitiveness and leadership of the United States within this sector.
(E)
To work with the Secretary of Labor, the private sector, educational institutions, and workforce training entities to develop workforce training programs and apprenticeships in advanced microelectronic packaging capabilities.
(3)
Components
The fund established under paragraph (2)(C) shall cover the following:
(A)
Advanced metrology and characterization for manufacturing of microchips using 3 nanometer transistor processes or more advanced processes.
(B)
Metrology for security and supply chain verification.
(4)
Creation of a Manufacturing USA institute
The fund established under paragraph (2)(C) may also cover the creation of a Manufacturing USA institute described in section 34(d) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 278s(d)
) that is focused on semiconductor manufacturing. Such institute may emphasize the following:
(A)
Research to support the virtualization and automation of maintenance of semiconductor machinery.
(B)
Development of new advanced test, assembly and packaging capabilities.
(C)
Developing and deploying educational and skills training curricula needed to support the industry sector and ensure the U.S. can build and maintain a trusted and predictable talent pipeline.
(f)
Domestic production requirements
The head of any executive agency receiving funding under this section shall develop policies to require domestic production, to the extent possible, for any intellectual property resulting from microelectronics research and development conducted as a result of these funds and domestic control requirements to protect any such intellectual property from foreign adversaries.
1099.
Prohibition relating to foreign adversaries
None of the funds appropriated pursuant to an authorization in this subtitle may be provided to an entity—
(1)
under the foreign ownership, control, or influence of the Government of the People’s Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party, or other foreign adversary (as defined in section 1091(a)(4)); or
(2)
determined to have beneficial ownership from foreign individuals subject to the jurisdiction, direction, or influence of foreign adversaries (as so defined).
XI
Civilian Personnel Matters
A
Department of Defense Matters
1101.
Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and technology positions in the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 87
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1701a
the following new section:
1701b.
Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and technology positions
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program using the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the military departments in attracting and retaining high-quality acquisition and technology experts in positions responsible for managing and developing complex, high-cost, technological acquisition efforts of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Approval required
The program may be carried out only with approval as follows:
(1)
Approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in the case of positions in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
(2)
Approval of the service acquisition executive of the military department concerned, in the case of positions in a military department.
(c)
Positions
The positions described in this subsection are positions that—
(1)
require expertise of an extremely high level in a scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management field; and
(2)
are critical to the successful accomplishment of an important acquisition or technology development mission.
(d)
Rate of basic pay
The pay authority specified in this subsection is authority as follows:
(1)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment or the service acquisition executive concerned, as applicable.
(2)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Secretary of Defense.
(e)
Limitations
(1)
In general
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions described in subsection (c).
(2)
Number of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may not be used with respect to more than five positions in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and more than five positions in each military department at any one time.
(3)
Term of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only for positions having terms less than five years.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of chapter 87 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1701a the following new item:
1701b. Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and technology positions.
.
(c)
Repeal of pilot program
(1)
In general
Section 1111 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 1701
note) is repealed.
(2)
Continuation of pay
The repeal in paragraph (1) shall not be interpreted to prohibit the payment of basic pay at rates fixed under such section 1111 before the date of the enactment of this Act for positions having terms that continue after that date.
1102.
Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology positions in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Chapter 139
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2358b
the following new section:
2358c.
Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology positions in science and technology reinvention laboratories
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program using the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the military departments in attracting and retaining high quality acquisition and technology experts in positions responsible for managing and performing complex, high-cost research and technology development efforts in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Approval Required
The program may be carried out in a military department only with the approval of the service acquisition executive of the military department concerned.
(c)
Positions
The positions described in this subsection are positions in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense that—
(1)
require expertise of an extremely high level in a scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management field; and
(2)
are critical to the successful accomplishment of an important research or technology development mission.
(d)
Rate of Basic Pay
The pay authority specified in this subsection is authority as follows:
(1)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the service acquisition executive concerned.
(2)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Secretary of the military department concerned.
(e)
Limitations
(1)
In general
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions described in subsection (c).
(2)
Number of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may not be used with respect to more than five positions in each military department at any one time.
(3)
Term of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only for positions having a term of less than five years.
(f)
Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories of the Department of Defense Defined
In this section, the term
science and technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense
means the laboratories designated as science and technology reinvention laboratories by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2358b the following new item:
2358c. Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology positions in science and technology reinvention laboratories.
.
(c)
Repeal of pilot program
(1)
In general
Section 1124 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2456;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is repealed.
(2)
Continuation of pay
The repeal in paragraph (1) shall not be interpreted to prohibit the payment of basic pay at rates fixed under such section 1124 before the date of the enactment of this Act for positions having terms that continue after that date.
1103.
Extension of enhanced appointment and compensation authority for civilian personnel for care and treatment of wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces
Section 1599c(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
both places it appears and inserting
December 31, 2025
.
1104.
Extension of overtime rate authority for Department of the Navy employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan
Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
September 30, 2021
and inserting
September 30, 2023
.
1105.
Expansion of direct hire authority for certain Department of Defense personnel to include installation military housing office positions supervising privatized military housing
Section 9905(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(11)
Any position in the military housing office of a military installation whose primary function is supervision of military housing covered by subchapter IV of
chapter 169
of title 10.
.
1106.
Extension of sunset of inapplicability of certification of executive qualifications by qualification certification review board of Office of Personnel Management for initial appointments to Senior Executive Service positions in Department of Defense
Section 1109(e) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2010;
5 U.S.C. 3393
note) is amended by striking
on the date
and all that follows and inserting
on August 13, 2023.
1107.
Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain high-level management positions in the Department of Defense
(a)
Pilot program authorized
The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the Department of Defense in attracting and retaining personnel with significant experience in high-level management of complex organizations and enterprise functions in order to lead implementation by the Department of the National Defense Strategy.
(b)
Approval required
The pilot program may be carried out only with approval as follows:
(1)
Approval of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in the case of a position not under the authority, direction, and control of an Under Secretary of Defense and not under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of a military department.
(2)
Approval of the applicable Under Secretary of Defense, in the case of a position under the authority, direction, and control of an Under Secretary of Defense.
(3)
Approval of the Under Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the military department concerned, in the case of a position in a military department.
(c)
Positions
The positions described in this subsection are positions that require expertise of an extremely high level in innovative leadership and management of enterprise-wide business operations, including financial management, health care, supply chain and logistics, information technology, real property stewardship, and human resources, across a large and complex organization.
(d)
Rate of basic pay
The pay authority specified in this subsection is authority as follows:
(1)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the applicable official under subsection (b).
(2)
Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Secretary of Defense.
(e)
Limitations
(1)
In general
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions described in subsection (c).
(2)
Number of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may not be used with respect to—
(A)
more than 10 positions in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and components of the Department of Defense other than the military departments at any one time; and
(B)
more than five positions in each military department at any one time.
(3)
Term of positions
The authority in subsection (a) may be used only for positions having terms less than five years.
(4)
Past service
An individual may not be appointed to a position pursuant to the authority provided by subsection (a) if the individual separated or retired from Federal civil service or service as a commissioned officer of an Armed Force on a date that is less than five years before the date of such appointment of the individual.
(f)
Termination
(1)
In general
The authority to fix rates of basic pay for a position under this section shall terminate on October 1, 2025.
(2)
Continuation of pay
Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to prohibit the payment after October 1, 2025, of basic pay at rates fixed under this section before that date for positions whose terms continue after that date.
1108.
Pilot program on expanded authority for appointment of recently retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in the Department of Defense
(a)
Pilot program required
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of expanding the use of the authority in section 3326 of title 5, United States Code, to appoint retired members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (b) of that section to positions in the Department of Defense described in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Positions
(1)
In general
The positions in the Department described in this subsection are positions classified at or below GS–13 under the General Schedule under subchapter III of
chapter 53
of title 5, United States Code, or an equivalent level under another wage system, in the competitive service—
(A)
to which appointments are authorized using Direct Hire Authority or Expedited Hiring Authority; and
(B)
that have been certified by the Secretary of the military department concerned as lacking sufficient numbers of potential applicants who are not retired members of the Armed Forces.
(2)
Limitation on delegation of certification
The Secretary of a military department may not delegate the authority to make a certification described in paragraph (1)(B) to an individual in a grade lower than colonel, captain in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, or an individual with an equivalent civilian grade.
(c)
Duration
The duration of the pilot program shall be three years.
(d)
Report
Not later than two years after the commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
(1)
A description of the pilot program, including the positions to which appointments are authorized to be made under the pilot program and the number of retired members appointed to each such position under the pilot program.
(2)
Any other matters in connection with the pilot program that the Secretary considers appropriate.
1109.
Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for positions at remote locations
(a)
In general
Chapter 81
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1599i.
Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for positions at remote locations
(a)
Direct hire authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may appoint, without regard to any provision of subchapter I of
chapter 33
of title 5, qualified applicants to positions in the competitive service to fill vacancies at covered locations.
(2)
Covered locations
For purposes of this section, a covered location is a location for which the Secretary has determined that critical hiring needs are not being met due to the geographic remoteness or isolation or extreme climate conditions of the location.
(b)
Relocation incentives
(1)
In general
An individual appointed to a position pursuant to subsection (a) may be paid a relocation incentive in connection with the relocation of the individual to the location of the position.
(2)
Amount
The amount of a relocation incentive payable to an individual under this subsection may not exceed the amount equal to—
(A)
25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee for the position concerned as of the date on which the service period in such position agreed to by the individual under paragraph (3) commences; multiplied by
(B)
the number of years (including fractions of a year) of such service period (not to exceed four years).
(3)
Service agreement
To receive a relocation incentive under this subsection, an individual appointed to a position under subsection (a) shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Defense to complete a period of service at the covered location. The period of obligated service of the individual at such location under the agreement may not exceed four years. The agreement shall include such repayment or alternative employment obligations as the Secretary considers appropriate for failure of the individual to complete the period of obligated service specified in the agreement.
(4)
Relationship to other relocation pay
A relocation incentive paid to an individual for a relocation under this subsection is in addition to any other relocation incentive or payment payable to the individual for such relocation by law.
(c)
Sunset
Effective on September 30, 2022, the authority provided under subsection (a) and the authority to provide relocation incentives under subsection (b) shall expire.
.
(b)
Outcome measurements
The Secretary of Defense shall develop outcome measurements to evaluate the effect of the authority provided under subsection (a) of section 1599i of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), and any relocation incentives provided under subsection (b) of such section.
(c)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the effect of the authority provided under subsection (a) of section 1599i of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), and any relocation incentives provided under subsection (b) of such section.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description and assessment of the effectiveness and achievements of the authority and relocation incentives described in paragraph (1), including—
(i)
the number of employees hired to covered locations described in section 1599i(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a); and
(ii)
the cost-per-placement of such employees.
(B)
A comparison of the effectiveness and use of the authority and relocation incentives described in paragraph (1) to authorities under title 5, United States Code, used by the Department of Defense before the date of the enactment of this Act to support hiring at remote or rural locations.
(C)
An assessment of—
(i)
the minority community outreach efforts made in using the authority and providing relocation incentives described in paragraph (1); and
(ii)
participation outcomes.
(D)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 81
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
1599i. Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for positions at remote locations.
.
1110.
Modification of direct hire authority for certain personnel involved with Department of Defense maintenance activities
Section 9905(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
including
and all that follows and inserting the following: “including—
(A)
depot-level maintenance and repair; and
(B)
support functions for such activities.
.
1110A.
Fire Fighters Alternative Work Schedule demonstration project for the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, shall establish and carry out, for a period of not less than five years, a Fire Fighters Alternative Work Schedule demonstration project for the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services. Such demonstration project shall provide, with respect to each employee of the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services, that—
(1)
assignments to tours of duty are scheduled in advance over periods of not less than two weeks;
(2)
tours of duty are scheduled using a regularly recurring pattern of 48-hour shifts followed by 48 or 72 consecutive non-work hours, as determined by mutual agreement between the Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, and the exclusive employee representative at each Navy Region Mid-Atlantic installation, in such a manner that each employee is regularly scheduled for 144-hours in any two-week period;
(3)
for any such employee that is a fire fighter working an alternative work schedule, such employee shall earn overtime compensation in a manner consistent with other applicable law and regulation;
(4)
no right shall be established to any form of premium pay, including night, Sunday, holiday, or hazard duty pay; and
(5)
leave accrual and use shall be consistent with other applicable law and regulation.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the demonstration project under this section terminates, the Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report detailing—
(1)
any financial savings or expenses directly and inseparably linked to the demonstration project;
(2)
any intangible quality of life and morale improvements achieved by the demonstration project; and
(3)
any adverse impact of the demonstration project occurring solely as the result of the transition to the demonstration project.
1110B.
Report by Comptroller General of the United States on diversity and inclusion within the civilian workforce of the Department of Defense
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after enactment of this act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on issues related to diversity and inclusion within the civilian workforce of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description of the demographic composition of the civilian workforce of the Department.
(2)
An assessment of any differences in promotion outcomes among demographic groups of the civilian workforce of the Department.
(3)
An assessment of the extent to which the Department has identified barriers to diversity in its civilian workforce.
B
Government-Wide Matters
1111.
One-year extension of temporary authority to grant allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on official duty in a combat zone
Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (
Public Law 109–234
; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently amended by section 1104 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
2021
and inserting
2022
.
1112.
One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal civilian employees working overseas
Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1105 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
through 2020
and inserting
through 2021
.
1113.
Technical amendments to authority for reimbursement of Federal, State, and local income taxes incurred during travel, transportation, and relocation
(a)
In general
Section 5724b(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
or relocation expenses reimbursed
and inserting
and relocation expenses reimbursed
; and
(2)
by striking
of chapter 41
and inserting
or chapter 41
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into effect of the amendments made by subsection (a) of section 1114 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), as provided for in subsection (c) of such section 1114.
XII
Matters relating to foreign nations
A
Assistance and training
1201.
Authority to build capacity for additional operations
Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(8)
Cyberspace operations.
.
1202.
Authority to build capacity for air sovereignty operations
Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 1201, is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph (7):
(7)
Air sovereignty operations.
.
1203.
Modification to the Inter-European Air Forces Academy
Section 350(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
that are
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting “that are—
(1)
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(2)
signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents; or
(3)
(A)
within the United States Africa Command area of responsibility; and
(B)
eligible for assistance under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2347
et seq.).
.
1204.
Modification to support of special operations for irregular warfare
Subsection (a) of section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1639), as most recently amended by section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
$10,000,000
and inserting
$15,000,000
.
1205.
Extension and modification of authority to support border security operations of certain foreign countries
(a)
Funds available for support
Subsection (b) of section 1226 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
22 U.S.C. 2151
note) is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Funds available for support
Amounts to provide support under the authority of subsection (a) may be derived only from amounts authorized to be appropriated and available for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide.
.
(b)
Extension
Subsection (h) of such section is amended by striking
December 31, 2021
and inserting
December 31, 2023
.
1206.
Modification of authority for participation in multinational centers of excellence
(a)
In general
Section 344 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
multinational military centers of excellence
and inserting
multinational centers of excellence
;
(2)
by striking
multinational military center of excellence
each place it appears and inserting
multinational center of excellence
;
(3)
by striking
multinational military centers of excellence
each place it appears and inserting
multinational centers of excellence
;
(4)
in subsection (b)(1), by inserting
or entered into by the Secretary of State,
after
Secretary of State,
;
(5)
in subsection (e)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Multinational military center of excellence
and inserting
Multinational center of excellence
;
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and moving the subparagraphs two ems to the right;
(C)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by striking
means an entity
and inserting “means—
(1)
an entity
;
(D)
in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(E)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
the European Centre of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats, established in 2017 and located in Helsinki, Finland.
;
(6)
by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
(7)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
Notification
Not later than 30 days before the date on which the Secretary of Defense authorizes participation under subsection (a) in a new multinational center of excellence, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of such participation.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of chapter 16, by striking the item relating to section 344 and inserting the following:
344. Participation in multinational centers of excellence.
.
1207.
Implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017
(a)
In general
During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall undertake activities consistent with the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–68
; 131 Stat. 1202) and with the guidance specified in this section, including—
(1)
establishing Department of Defense-wide policies and programs that advance the implementation of that Act, including military doctrine and Department-specific and combatant command-specific programs;
(2)
ensuring the Department sufficient personnel to serve as gender advisors, including by hiring and training full-time equivalent personnel, as necessary, and establishing roles, responsibilities, and requirements for gender advisors;
(3)
the deliberate integration of gender analysis into relevant training for members of the Armed Forces across ranks, as described in the Women's Entrepreneurship and Economic Empowerment Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–428
; 132 Stat. 5509); and
(4)
security cooperation activities that further the implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–68
; 131 Stat. 1202).
(b)
Building partner defense institution and security force capacity
(1)
Incorporation of gender analysis and participation of women into security cooperation activities
Consistent with the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–68
; 131 Stat. 1202), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall seek to incorporate gender analysis and participation by women, as appropriate, into the institutional and national security force capacity-building activities of security cooperation programs carried out under title 10, United States Code, including by—
(A)
incorporating gender analysis and women, peace, and security priorities, including sex-disaggregated data, into educational and training materials and programs authorized by section 333 of title 10, United States Code;
(B)
advising on the recruitment, employment, development, retention, and promotion of women in such national security forces, including by—
(i)
identifying existing military career opportunities for women;
(ii)
exposing women and girls to careers available in such national security forces and the skills necessary for such careers; and
(iii)
encouraging women's and girls' interest in such careers by highlighting as role models women of the United States and applicable foreign countries in uniform;
(C)
addressing sexual harassment and abuse against women within such national security forces;
(D)
integrating gender analysis into security sector policy, planning, and training for such national security forces; and
(E)
improving infrastructure to address the requirements of women serving in such national security forces, including appropriate equipment for female security and police forces.
(2)
Barriers and opportunities
Partner country assessments conducted in the course of Department security cooperation activities to build the capacity of the national security forces of foreign countries shall include attention to the barriers and opportunities with respect to strengthening recruitment, employment, development, retention, and promotion of women in the military forces of such partner countries.
(c)
Department-wide policies on women, peace, and security
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall initiate a process to establish standardized policies described in subsection (a)(1).
(d)
Funding
The Secretary of Defense may use funds authorized to be appropriated in each fiscal year to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance as specified in the table in section 4301 for carrying out the full implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–68
; 131 Stat. 1202) and the guidance on the matters described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) and subparagraphs (A) through (E) of subsection (b)(1).
(e)
Annual report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the steps the Department has taken to implement the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–68
; 131 Stat. 1202), including—
(1)
a description of the progress made on each matter described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) and subparagraphs (A) through (E) of subsection (b)(1); and
(2)
an identification of the amounts used for such purposes.
(f)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1208.
Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies
(a)
Plan required
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to establish a Department of Defense Regional Center for Security Studies for the Arctic.
(2)
Elements
The plan required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the benefits of establishing such a center, including the manner in which the establishment of such a center would benefit United States and Department interests in the Arctic region.
(B)
A description of the mission and purpose of such a center, including specific policy guidance from the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
(C)
An analysis of suitable reporting relationships with the applicable combatant commands.
(D)
An assessment of suitable locations for such a center that are—
(i)
in proximity to other academic institutions that study security implications with respect to the Arctic region;
(ii)
in proximity to the designated lead for Arctic affairs of the United States Northern Command;
(iii)
in proximity to a central hub of assigned Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to suitably advance relevant professional development of skills unique to the Arctic region; and
(iv)
in a State located outside the contiguous United States.
(E)
A description of the establishment and operational costs of such a center, including for—
(i)
military construction for required facilities;
(ii)
facility renovation;
(iii)
personnel costs for faculty and staff; and
(iv)
other costs the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
(F)
An evaluation of the existing infrastructure, resources, and personnel available at military installations and at universities and other academic institutions that could reduce the costs described in accordance with subparagraph (E).
(G)
An examination of partnership opportunities with United States allies and partners for potential collaboration and burden sharing.
(H)
A description of potential courses and programs that such a center could carry out, including—
(i)
core, specialized, and advanced courses;
(ii)
planning workshops;
(iii)
seminars;
(iv)
confidence-building initiatives; and
(v)
academic research.
(I)
A description of any modification to title 10, United States Code, necessary for the effective operation of such a center.
(3)
Form
The plan required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(b)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Not earlier than 30 days after the submittal of the plan required by subsection (a), and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense may establish and administer a Department of Defense Regional Center for Security Studies for the Arctic, to be known as the
Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies
, for the purpose described in section 342(a) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Location
The Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies may be located—
(A)
in proximity to other academic institutions that study security implications with respect to the Arctic region;
(B)
in proximity to the designated lead for Arctic affairs of the United States Northern Command;
(C)
in proximity to a central hub of assigned Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to suitably advance relevant professional development of skills unique to the Arctic region; and
(D)
in a State located outside the contiguous United States.
1209.
Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare
(a)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that assesses the merits and feasibility of establishing and administering a Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the benefits to the United States, and the allies and partners of the United States, of establishing such a functional center, including the manner in which the establishment of such a functional center would enhance and sustain focus on, and advance knowledge and understanding of, matters of irregular warfare, including cybersecurity, nonstate actors, information operations, counterterrorism, stability operations, and the hybridization of such matters.
(B)
A detailed description of the mission and purpose of such a functional center, including applicable policy guidance from the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
(C)
An analysis of appropriate reporting and liaison relationships between such a functional center and—
(i)
the geographic and functional combatant commands;
(ii)
other Department of Defense stakeholders; and
(iii)
other government and nongovernment entities and organizations.
(D)
An enumeration and valuation of criteria applicable to the determination of a suitable location for such a functional center.
(E)
A description of the establishment and operational costs of such a functional center, including for—
(i)
military construction for required facilities;
(ii)
facility renovation;
(iii)
personnel costs for faculty and staff; and
(iv)
other costs the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
(F)
An evaluation of the existing infrastructure, resources, and personnel available at military installations and at universities and other academic and research institutions that could reduce the costs described in subparagraph (E).
(G)
An examination of partnership opportunities with United States allies and partners for potential collaboration and burden sharing.
(H)
A description of potential courses and programs that such a functional center could carry out, including—
(i)
core, specialized, and advanced courses;
(ii)
planning workshops and structured after-action reviews or debriefs;
(iii)
seminars;
(iv)
initiatives on executive development, relationship building, partnership outreach, and any other matter the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate; and
(v)
focused academic research and studies in support of Department priorities.
(I)
A description of any modification to title 10, United States Code, or any other provision of law, necessary for the effective establishment and administration of such a functional center.
(3)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(b)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Not earlier than 30 days after the submittal of the report required by subsection (a), and subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Secretary of Defense may establish and administer a Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
(2)
Treatment as a Regional Center for Security Studies
A Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare established under paragraph (1) shall be operated and administered in the same manner as the Department of Defense Regional Centers for Security Studies under section 342 of title 10, United States Code, and in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
(3)
Limitation
No other institution or element of the Department may be designated as a Department of Defense functional center, except by an Act of Congress.
(4)
Location
The location of a Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare established under paragraph (1) shall be selected based on an objective, criteria-driven administrative or competitive award process, in accordance with which the merits of locating such functional center in Tempe, Arizona, may be evaluated together with other suitable locations.
1210.
Open Technology Fund
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Open Technology Fund Authorization Act
.
(b)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The political, economic, and social benefits of the internet are important to advancing democracy and freedom throughout the world.
(2)
Authoritarian governments are investing billions of dollars each year to create, maintain, and expand repressive internet censorship and surveillance systems to limit free association, control access to information, and prevent citizens from exercising their rights to free speech.
(3)
Over
2/3
of the world’s population live in countries in which the internet is restricted. Governments shut down the internet more than 200 times every year.
(4)
Internet censorship and surveillance technology is rapidly being exported around the world, particularly by the Government of the People’s Republic of China, enabling widespread abuses by authoritarian governments.
(c)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that it is in the interest of the United States—
(1)
to promote global internet freedom by countering internet censorship and repressive surveillance;
(2)
to protect the internet as a platform for—
(A)
the free exchange of ideas;
(B)
the promotion of human rights and democracy; and
(C)
the advancement of a free press; and
(3)
to support efforts that prevent the deliberate misuse of the internet to repress individuals from exercising their rights to free speech and association, including countering the use of such technologies by authoritarian regimes.
(d)
Establishment of the Open Technology Fund
(1)
In general
The United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (
22 U.S.C. 6201
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 309 the following:
309A.
Open Technology Fund
(a)
Authority
(1)
Establishment
There is established a grantee entity, to be known as the
Open Technology Fund
, which shall carry out this section.
(2)
In general
Grants authorized under section 305 shall be available to award annual grants to the Open Technology fund for the purpose of—
(A)
promoting, consistent with United States law, unrestricted access to uncensored sources of information via the internet; and
(B)
enabling journalists, including journalists employed by or affiliated with the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio Free Asia, the Middle East Broadcasting Networks, the Office of Cuba Broadcasting, or any entity funded by or partnering with the United States Agency for Global Media to create and disseminate news and information consistent with the purposes, standards, and principles specified in sections 302 and 303.
(b)
Use of grant funds
The Open Technology Fund shall use grant funds received pursuant to subsection (a)(2)—
(1)
to advance freedom of the press and unrestricted access to the internet in repressive environments overseas through technology development, rather than through media messaging;
(2)
to research, develop, implement, and maintain—
(A)
technologies that circumvent techniques used by authoritarian governments, nonstate actors, and others to block or censor access to the internet, including circumvention tools that bypass internet blocking, filtering, and other censorship techniques used to limit or block legitimate access to content and information; and
(B)
secure communication tools and other forms of privacy and security technology that facilitate the creation and distribution of news and enable audiences to access media content on censored websites;
(3)
to advance internet freedom by supporting private and public sector research, development, implementation, and maintenance of technologies that provide secure and uncensored access to the internet to counter attempts by authoritarian governments, nonstate actors, and others to improperly restrict freedom online;
(4)
to research and analyze emerging technical threats and develop innovative solutions through collaboration with the private and public sectors to maintain the technological advantage of the United States Government over authoritarian governments, nonstate actors, and others;
(5)
to develop, acquire, and distribute requisite internet freedom technologies and techniques for the United States Agency for Global Media, in accordance with paragraph (2), and digital security interventions, to fully enable the creation and distribution of digital content between and to all users and regional audiences;
(6)
to prioritize programs for countries, the governments of which restrict freedom of expression on the internet, that are important to the national interest of the United States in accordance with section 7050(b)(2)(C) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2020 (division G of
Public Law 116–94
); and
(7)
to carry out any other effort consistent with the purposes of this Act or press freedom overseas if requested or approved by the United States Agency for Global Media.
(c)
Methodology
In carrying out subsection (b), the Open Technology Fund shall—
(1)
(A)
support fully open-source tools, code, and components, to the extent practicable, to ensure such supported tools and technologies are as secure, transparent, and accessible as possible; and
(B)
require that any such tools, components, code, or technology supported by the Open Technology Fund remain fully open-source, to the extent practicable;
(2)
support technologies that undergo comprehensive security audits to ensure that such technologies are secure and have not been compromised in a manner detrimental to the interests of the United States or to individuals or organizations benefitting from programs supported by the Open Technology Fund;
(3)
review and periodically update, as necessary, security auditing procedures used by the Open Technology Fund to reflect current industry security standards;
(4)
establish safeguards to mitigate the use of such supported technologies for illicit purposes;
(5)
solicit project proposals through an open, transparent, and competitive application process to attract innovative applications and reduce barriers to entry;
(6)
(A)
seek input from technical, regional, and subject matter experts from a wide range of relevant disciplines; and
(B)
to review, provide feedback, and evaluate proposals to ensure that the most competitive projects are funded;
(7)
implement an independent review process, through which proposals are reviewed by such experts to ensure the highest degree of technical review and due diligence;
(8)
maximize cooperation with the public and private sectors, foreign allies, and partner countries to maximize efficiencies and eliminate duplication of efforts; and
(9)
utilize any other methodology approved by the United States Agency for Global Media in furtherance of the mission of the Open Technology Fund.
(d)
Grant agreement
Any grant agreement with, or grants made to, the Open Technology Fund under this section shall be subject to the following limitations and restrictions:
(1)
The headquarters of the Open Technology Fund and its senior administrative and managerial staff shall be located in a location which ensures economy, operational effectiveness, and accountability to the United States Agency for Global Media.
(2)
Grants awarded under this section shall be made pursuant to a grant agreement requiring that—
(A)
grant funds are only used only activities consistent with this section; and
(B)
failure to comply with such requirement shall result in termination of the grant without further fiscal obligation to the United States.
(3)
Each grant agreement under this section shall require that each contract entered into by the Open Technology Fund specify that all obligations are assumed by the grantee and not by the United States Government.
(4)
Each grant agreement under this section shall require that any lease agreements entered into by the Open Technology Fund shall be, to the maximum extent possible, assignable to the United States Government.
(5)
Administrative and managerial costs for operation of the Open Technology Fund—
(A)
should be kept to a minimum; and
(B)
to the maximum extent feasible, should not exceed the costs that would have been incurred if the Open Technology Fund had been operated as a Federal entity rather than as a grantee.
(6)
Grant funds may not be used for any activity whose purpose is influencing the passage or defeat of legislation considered by Congress.
(e)
Relationship to the United States Agency for Global Media
(1)
In general
The Open Technology Fund shall be subject to the oversight and governance by the United States Agency for Global Media in accordance with section 305.
(2)
Assistance
The United States Agency for Global Media, its broadcast entities, and the Open Technology Fund should render such assistance to each other as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section or any other provision under this Act.
(3)
Not a Federal agency or instrumentality
Nothing in this section may be construed to make the Open Technology Fund an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
(4)
Detailees
Employees of a grantee of the United States Agency for Global Media may be detailed to the Agency, in accordance with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (
42 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.) and Federal employees may be detailed to a grantee of the United States Agency for Global Media, in accordance with such Act.
(f)
Relationship to other United States Government-funded internet freedom programs
The United States Agency for Global Media shall ensure that internet freedom research and development projects of the Open Technology Fund are deconflicted with internet freedom programs of the Department of State and other relevant United States Government departments. Agencies should still share information and best practices relating to the implementation of subsections (b) and (c).
(g)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Annual report
The Open Technology Fund shall highlight, in its annual report, internet freedom activities, including a comprehensive assessment of the Open Technology Fund’s activities relating to the implementation of subsections (b) and (c), which shall include—
(A)
an assessment of the current state of global internet freedom, including—
(i)
trends in censorship and surveillance technologies and internet shutdowns; and
(ii)
the threats such pose to journalists, citizens, and human rights and civil society organizations; and
(B)
a description of the technology projects supported by the Open Technology Fund and the associated impact of such projects in the most recently completed year, including—
(i)
the countries and regions in which such technologies were deployed;
(ii)
any associated metrics indicating audience usage of such technologies; and
(iii)
future-year technology project initiatives.
(2)
Assessment of the effectiveness of the open technology fund
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that indicates—
(A)
whether the Open Technology Fund is—
(i)
technically sound;
(ii)
cost effective; and
(iii)
satisfying the requirements under this section; and
(B)
the extent to which the interests of the United States are being served by maintaining the work of the Open Technology Fund.
(h)
Audit authorities
(1)
In general
Financial transactions of the Open Technology Fund that relate to functions carried out under this section may be audited by the Government Accountability Office in accordance with such principles and procedures and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. Any such audit shall be conducted at the place or places at which accounts of the Open Technology Fund are normally kept.
(2)
Access by gao
The Government Accountability Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, papers, and property belonging to or in use by the Open Technology Fund pertaining to financial transactions as may be necessary to facilitate an audit. The Government Accountability Office shall be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with any assets held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. All such books, accounts, records, reports, files, papers, and property of the Open Technology Fund shall remain in the possession and custody of the Open Technology Fund.
(3)
Exercise of authorities
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service is authorized to exercise the authorities of the Inspector General Act of 1978 with respect to the Open Technology Fund.
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
The United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 is amended—
(A)
in section 304(d) (
22 U.S.C. 6203(d)
), by inserting
the Open Technology Fund,
before
the Middle East Broadcasting Networks
;
(B)
in sections 305(a)(20) and 310(c) (
22 U.S.C. 6204(a)(20)
and 6209(c)), by inserting
the Open Technology Fund,
before
or the Middle East Broadcasting Networks
each place such term appears; and
(C)
in section 310 (
22 U.S.C. 6209
), by inserting
the Open Technology Fund,
before
and the Middle East Broadcasting Networks
each place such term appears.
(3)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Open Technology Fund, which shall be used to carry out section 309A of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, as added by paragraph (1)—
(A)
$20,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
(B)
$25,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
(e)
United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (
22 U.S.C. 6553
) is amended by striking
October 1, 2020
and inserting
October 1, 2025
.
B
Matters relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
1211.
Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of certain coalition nations for support provided to United States military operations
(a)
Extension
Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1217 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by striking
beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2020
and inserting
beginning on October 1, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2021
.
(b)
Modification to limitation
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking
beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2020
and inserting
beginning on October 1, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2021
; and
(2)
by striking
$450,000,000
and inserting
$180,000,000
.
1212.
Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response Program
Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently amended by section 1208(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
; and
(B)
by striking
$2,500,000
and inserting
$2,000,000
;
(2)
in subsection (b), by striking the subsection designation and heading and all that follows through the period at the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
(b)
Quarterly reports
(1)
In general
Beginning in fiscal year 2021, not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report regarding the source of funds and the allocation and use of funds during that quarter fiscal year that were made available pursuant to the authority provided in this section or under any other provision of law for the purposes of the program under subsection (a).
; and
(3)
in subsection (f), by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
1213.
Extension and modification of support for reconciliation activities led by the Government of Afghanistan
(a)
Modification of authority To provide covered support
Subsection (a) of section 1218 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the subsection designation and heading and all that follows through
The Secretary of Defense
and inserting the following:
(a)
Authority To provide covered support
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
Limitation on use of funds
Amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense by this Act may not be obligated or expended to provide covered support until the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress the report required by subsection (b).
.
(b)
Participation in reconciliation activities
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (i) through (k) as subsections (j) through (l), respectively;
(2)
by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection (i):
(i)
Participation in reconciliation activities
Covered support may only be used to support a reconciliation activity that—
(1)
includes the participation of members of the Government of Afghanistan; and
(2)
does not restrict the participation of women.
.
(c)
Extension
Subsection (k) of such section, as so redesignated, is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
(d)
Exclusions from covered support
Such section is further amended in paragraph (2)(B) of subsection (l), as so redesignated—
(1)
in clause (ii), by inserting
, reimbursement for travel or lodging, and stipends or per diem payments
before the period at the end; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Any activity involving one or more members of an organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
) or an individual designated as a specially designated global terrorist pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
.
1214.
Sense of Senate on special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies is critical to the mission in Afghanistan and the long-term interests of the United States;
(2)
maintaining a robust special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies is necessary to support United States Government personnel in Afghanistan who need translation, interpretation, security, and other services;
(3)
Afghan allies routinely risk their lives to assist United States military and diplomatic personnel;
(4)
honoring the commitments made to Afghan allies with respect to the special immigrant visa program is essential to ensuring—
(A)
the continued service and safety of such allies; and
(B)
the willingness of other like-minded individuals to provide similar services in any future contingency;
(5)
the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (
8 U.S.C. 1101
note) states that all Government-controlled processing of applications for special immigrant visas under that Act
should be completed not later than 9 months after the date on which an eligible alien submits all required materials to complete an application for such visa
;
(6)
any backlog in processing special immigrant visa applications should be addressed as quickly as possible so as to honor the United States commitment to Afghan allies as soon as possible;
(7)
failure to process such applications in an expeditious manner puts lives at risk and jeopardizes a critical element of support to United States operations in Afghanistan; and
(8)
to prevent harm to the operations of the United States Government in Afghanistan, additional visas should be made available to principal aliens who are eligible for special immigrant status under that Act.
1215.
Sense of Senate and report on United States presence in Afghanistan
(a)
Sense of the Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the United States and our coalition partners have made progress in the fight against al-Qaeda and ISIS in Afghanistan; however, both groups—
(A)
maintain an ability to operate in Afghanistan;
(B)
seek to undermine stability in the region; and
(C)
threaten the security of Afghanistan, the United States, and the allies of the United States;
(2)
the South Asia strategy correctly emphasizes the importance of a conditions-based United States presence in Afghanistan; therefore, any decision to withdraw the Armed Forces of the United States from Afghanistan should be done in an orderly manner in response to conditions on the ground, and in coordination with the Government of Afghanistan and United States allies and partners in the Resolute Support mission, rather than arbitrary timelines;
(3)
a precipitous withdrawal of the Armed Forces of the United States and United States diplomatic and intelligence personnel from Afghanistan without effective, countervailing efforts to secure gains in Afghanistan may allow violent extremist groups to regenerate, threatening the security of the Afghan people and creating a security vacuum that could destabilize the region and provide ample safe haven for extremist groups seeking to conduct external attacks;
(4)
ongoing diplomatic efforts to secure a peaceful, negotiated solution to the conflict in Afghanistan are the best path forward for establishing long-term stability and eliminating the threat posed by extremist groups in Afghanistan;
(5)
the United States supports international diplomatic efforts to facilitate peaceful, negotiated resolution to the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan on terms that respect the rights of innocent civilians and deny safe havens to terrorists; and
(6)
as part of such diplomatic efforts, and as a condition to be met prior to withdrawal, the United States should seek to secure the release of any United States citizens being held against their will in Afghanistan.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than September 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representative a report that includes—
(A)
an assessment of—
(i)
the external threat posed by extremist groups operating in Afghanistan to the United States homeland and the homelands of United States allies;
(ii)
the impact of cessation of United States counterterrorism activities on the size, strength, and external aims of such groups; and
(iii)
the international financial support the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces requires in order to maintain current operational capabilities, including force cohesion and combat effectiveness;
(B)
a plan for the orderly transition of all security-related tasks currently undertaken by the Armed Forces of the United States in support of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces to Afghanistan, including—
(i)
precision targeting of Afghanistan-based terrorists;
(ii)
combat-enabler support, such as artillery and aviation assets; and
(iii)
noncombat-enabler support, such as intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, medical evacuation, and contractor logistic support; and
(C)
an update on the status of any United States citizens detained in Afghanistan, and an overview of Administration efforts to secure their release.
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
C
Matters relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran
1221.
Extension of authority and limitation on use of funds to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
(a)
Extension
Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 128 Stat. 3558), as most recently amended by section 1233(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2039), is further amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
(b)
Funding
Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most recently amended by section 1221 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is amended to read as follows:
(g)
Funding
(1)
In general
Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for Overseas Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2021, not more than $322,500,000 may be used to carry out this section.
(2)
Limitation and report
(A)
In general
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1), not more than 25 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the following:
(i)
An explanation of the manner in which such support aligns with the objectives contained in the national defense strategy.
(ii)
A description of the manner in which such support is synchronized with larger whole-of-government funding efforts to strengthen the bilateral relationship between the United States and Iraq.
(iii)
A description of—
(I)
actions taken by the Government of Iraq to assert control over popular mobilization forces; and
(II)
the role of popular mobilization forces in the national security apparatus of Iraq.
(iv)
A plan to fully transition security assistance for the Iraqi Security Forces from the Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Train and Equip Fund to standing security assistance authorities managed by the Defense Security Cooperation Agency and the Department of State by not later than September 30, 2022.
(B)
Form
The report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
.
1222.
Extension and modification of authority to provide assistance to vetted Syrian groups and individuals
Section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
Buck
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
Public Law 113–291
; 127 Stat. 3541), as most recently amended by section 1222(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
the vetted Syrian opposition
and inserting
vetted Syrian groups and individuals
;
(2)
in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
;
(3)
by striking subsections (b) and (c);
(4)
by redesignating subsections (d) through (m) as subsections (b) through (k), respectively; and
(5)
in paragraph (2) of subsection (b), as so redesignated—
(A)
in subparagraph (J)(iii), by redesignating subclause (I) as subparagraph (M) and moving the subparagraph four ems to the left;
(B)
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (F) and (G) through (J) as subparagraphs (B) through (G) and (I) through (L), respectively;
(C)
by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, the following new subparagraph (A):
(A)
An accounting of the obligation and expenditure of authorized funding for the current and preceding fiscal year.
;
(D)
by inserting after subparagraph (G), as so redesignated, the following new subparagraph (H):
(H)
The mechanisms and procedures that will be used to monitor and report to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives any unauthorized end-use of provided training and equipment or other violations of relevant law by appropriately vetted recipients.
; and
(E)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(N)
Any other matter the Secretary considers appropriate.
.
1223.
Extension and modification of authority to support operations and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq
(a)
Limitation on amount
Subsection (c) of section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (
10 U.S.C. 113
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
; and
(2)
by striking
$30,000,000
and inserting
$15,000,000
.
(b)
Source of funds
Subsection (d) of such section is amended by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
.
(c)
Additional authority
Subsection (f) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
fiscal year 2019
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
and inserting
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
(d)
Report
Subsection (g)(1) of such section is amended by striking
September 30, 2020
and inserting
March 1, 2021
.
(e)
Limitation on availability of funds
Subsection (h) of such section is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
; and
(B)
by striking
$20,000,000
and inserting
$10,000,000
;
(2)
by striking paragraph (1);
(3)
by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively;
(4)
in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by striking
The development of a staffing plan
and inserting
A progress report with respect to the development of a staffing plan
; and
(5)
in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking
The initiation
and inserting
A progress report with respect to the initiation
.
D
Matters relating to Europe and the Russian Federation
1231.
Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the United States and the Russian Federation
Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2488), as most recently amended by section 1231 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
, 2019, or 2020
and inserting
2019, 2020, or 2021
.
1232.
Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea
(a)
Prohibition
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to, and the Department may not, implement any activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
(b)
Waiver
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary of Defense—
(1)
determines that a waiver is in the national security interest of the United States; and
(2)
on the date on which the waiver is invoked, submits a notification of the waiver and a justification of the reason for seeking the waiver to—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1233.
Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative
Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently amended by section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (2)(B)—
(i)
in clause (iv), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(ii)
in clause (v), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following:
(vi)
transformation of command and control structures and roles in line with North Atlantic Treaty Organization principles; and
(vii)
improvement of human resources management, including to support career management reforms, enhanced social support to military personnel and their families, and professional military education systems.
; and
(B)
by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
(5)
Lethal assistance
Of the funds available for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to subsection (f)(6), $125,000,000 shall be available only for lethal assistance described in paragraphs (2), (3), (11), (12), (13), and (14) of subsection (b).
;
(2)
in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
For fiscal year 2021, $250,000,000.
; and
(3)
in subsection (h), by striking
December 31, 2022
and inserting
December 31, 2024
.
1234.
Report on capability and capacity requirements of military forces of Ukraine and resource plan for security assistance
(a)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the capability and capacity requirements of the military forces of Ukraine, which shall include the following:
(1)
An analysis of the capability gaps and capacity shortfalls of the military forces of Ukraine that includes—
(A)
an assessment of the requirements of the navy of Ukraine to accomplish its assigned missions; and
(B)
an assessment of the requirements of the air force of Ukraine to accomplish its assigned missions.
(2)
An assessment of the relative priority assigned by the Government of Ukraine to addressing such capability gaps and capacity shortfalls.
(3)
An assessment of the capability gaps and capacity shortfalls that—
(A)
could be addressed in a sufficient and timely manner by unilateral efforts of the Government of Ukraine; and
(B)
are unlikely to be addressed in a sufficient and timely manner solely through unilateral efforts.
(4)
An assessment of the capability gaps and capacity shortfalls described in paragraph (3)(B) that could be addressed in a sufficient and timely manner by—
(A)
the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative of the Department of Defense;
(B)
Department of Defense security assistance authorized by section 333 of title 10, United States Code;
(C)
the Foreign Military Financing and Foreign Military Sales programs of the Department of State; or
(D)
the provision of excess defense articles.
(5)
An assessment of the human resources requirements of the Office of Defense Cooperation at the United States Embassy in Kyiv and any gaps in the capacity of such Office of Defense Cooperation to provide security assistance to Ukraine.
(6)
Any recommendations the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State consider appropriate concerning the coordination of security assistance efforts of the Department of Defense and the Department of State with respect to Ukraine.
(b)
Resource plan
Not later than February 15, 2022, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a resource plan for United States security assistance with respect to Ukraine, which shall include the following:
(1)
A plan to resource the following initiatives and programs with respect to Ukraine in fiscal year 2023 and the four succeeding fiscal years to meet the most critical capability gaps and capacity shortfalls of the military forces of Ukraine:
(A)
The Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative of the Department of Defense.
(B)
Department of Defense security assistance authorized by section 333 of title 10, United States Code.
(C)
The Foreign Military Financing and Foreign Military Sales programs of the Department of State.
(D)
The provision of excess defense articles.
(2)
With respect to the navy of Ukraine, the following:
(A)
A capability development plan, with milestones, detailing the manner in which the United States will assist the Government of Ukraine in meeting the requirements referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A).
(B)
A plan for United States cooperation with third countries and international organizations that have the resources and ability to provide immediate assistance to the navy of Ukraine while maintaining interoperability with United States platforms to the extent feasible.
(C)
A plan to prioritize the provision of excess defense articles for the navy of Ukraine to the extent practicable during fiscal year 2023 and the four succeeding fiscal years.
(D)
An assessment of the manner in which United States security assistance to the navy of Ukraine is in the national security interests of the United States.
(3)
With respect to the air force of Ukraine, the following:
(A)
A capability development plan, with milestones, detailing the manner in which the United States will assist the Government of Ukraine in meeting the requirements referred to in subsection (a)(1)(B).
(B)
A plan for United States cooperation with third countries and international organizations that have the resources and ability to provide immediate assistance to the air force of Ukraine while maintaining interoperability with United States platforms to the extent feasible.
(C)
A plan to prioritize the provision of excess defense articles for the air force of Ukraine to the extent practicable during fiscal year 2023 and the four succeeding fiscal years.
(D)
An assessment of the manner in which United States security assistance to the air force of Ukraine is in the national security interests of the United States.
(4)
An assessment of progress on defense institutional reforms in Ukraine, including with respect to the navy and air force of Ukraine, during fiscal year 2023 and the four succeeding fiscal years that will be essential for—
(A)
enabling effective use and sustainment of capabilities developed under security assistance authorities described in this section;
(B)
enhancing the defense of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine;
(C)
achieving the stated goal of the Government of Ukraine of meeting North Atlantic Treaty Organization standards; and
(D)
allowing Ukraine to achieve its full potential as a strategic partner of the United States.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) and the resource plan required by subsection (b) shall each be submitted in a classified form with an unclassified summary.
(d)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
1235.
Sense of Senate on North Atlantic Treaty Organization enhanced opportunities partner status for Ukraine
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the United States should support the designation of Ukraine as an enhanced opportunities partner as part of the Partnership Interoperability Initiative of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(2)
the participation of Ukraine in the enhanced opportunities partner program is in the shared security interests of Ukraine, the United States, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization alliance;
(3)
the unique experience, capabilities, and technical expertise of Ukraine, especially with respect to hybrid warfare, cybersecurity, and foreign disinformation, would enable Ukraine to make a positive contribution to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization alliance through participation in the enhanced opportunities partner program;
(4)
while not a replacement for North Atlantic Treaty Organization membership, participation in the enhanced opportunities partner program would have significant benefits for the security of Ukraine, including—
(A)
more regular consultations on security matters;
(B)
enhanced access to interoperability programs and exercises;
(C)
expanded information sharing; and
(D)
improved coordination of crisis preparedness and response; and
(5)
progress on defense institutional reforms in Ukraine, including defense institutional reforms intended to align the military forces of Ukraine with North Atlantic Treaty Organization standards, remains essential for—
(A)
a more effective defense of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine;
(B)
allowing Ukraine to achieve its full potential as a strategic partner of the United States; and
(C)
increased cooperation between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
1236.
Extension of authority for training for Eastern European national security forces in the course of multilateral exercises
Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
10 U.S.C. 333
note), as most recently amended by section 1247 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is further amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
December 31, 2021
and inserting
December 31, 2023
; and
(2)
in the second sentence, by striking
the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2021
and inserting
the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2023
.
1237.
Sense of Senate on Kosovo and the role of the Kosovo Force of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
normalization of relations between Kosovo and Serbia is in the interest of both countries and would enhance security and stability in the Western Balkans;
(2)
the United States should continue to support the diplomatic efforts of Kosovo and Serbia to reach a historic agreement to normalize relations between the two countries;
(3)
mutual recognition should be a central element of normalization of relations between Kosovo and Serbia;
(4)
both Kosovo and Serbia should refrain from actions that would make an agreement more difficult to achieve;
(5)
the Kosovo Force of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization continues to play an indispensable role in maintaining security and stability, which are the essential predicates for the success of the diplomatic efforts of Kosovo and Serbia to achieve normalization of relations;
(6)
the participation of the United States Armed Forces in the Kosovo Force is foundational to the credibility and success of mission of the Kosovo Force;
(7)
with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and other European partners contributing over 80 percent of the troops for the mission, the Kosovo Force represents a positive example of burden sharing;
(8)
together with the allies and partners of the United States, the United States should—
(A)
maintain its commitment to the Kosovo Force; and
(B)
take all appropriate steps to ensure that the Kosovo Force has the necessary personnel, capabilities, and resources to perform its critical mission; and
(9)
the United States should continue to support the gradual transition of the Kosovo Security Force to a multi-ethnic army for the Republic of Kosovo that is interoperable with North Atlantic Treaty Organization members through an inclusive and transparent process that—
(A)
respects the rights and concerns of all citizens of Kosovo;
(B)
promotes regional security and stability; and
(C)
supports the aspirations of Kosovo for eventual full membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
1238.
Sense of Senate on strategic competition with the Russian Federation and related activities of the Department of Defense
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the 2018 National Defense Strategy affirms the re-emergence of long-term strategic competition with the Russian Federation as a principal priority for the Department of Defense that requires sustained investment due to the magnitude of the threat posed to United States security, prosperity, and alliances and partnerships;
(2)
given the continued military modernization of the Russian Federation, including the development of long-range strike systems and other advanced capabilities, the United States should prioritize efforts within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to implement timely measures to ensure that the deterrence and defense posture of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization remains credible and effective;
(3)
the United States should reaffirm support for the open-door policy of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(4)
to enhance deterrence against aggression by the Russian Federation, the Department of Defense should—
(A)
continue—
(i)
to prioritize funding for the European Deterrence Initiative to address capability gaps, capacity shortfalls, and infrastructure requirements of the Joint Force in Europe;
(ii)
to increase pre-positioned stocks of equipment in Europe; and
(iii)
rotational deployments of United States forces to Romania and Bulgaria while pursuing training opportunities at military locations such as Camp Mihail Kogalniceanu in Romania and Novo Selo Training Area in Bulgaria;
(B)
increase—
(i)
focus and resources to address the changing military balance in the Black Sea region;
(ii)
the frequency, scale, and scope of North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other multilateral exercises in the Black Sea region, including with the participation of Ukraine and Georgia; and
(iii)
presence and activities in the Arctic, including special operations training and naval operations and training;
(C)
maintain robust naval presence at Souda Bay, Greece, and pursue opportunities for increased United States presence at other locations in Greece;
(D)
enhance military-to-military engagement among Western Balkan countries to promote interoperability with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and regional security cooperation; and
(E)
expand information sharing, improve planning coordination, and increase the frequency, scale, and scope of exercises with Sweden and Finland to deepen interoperability; and
(5)
to counter Russian Federation activities short of armed conflict, the Department of Defense should—
(A)
integrate with United States interagency efforts to employ all elements of national power to counter Russian Federation hybrid warfare; and
(B)
bolster the capabilities of allies and partners to counteract Russian Federation coercion, including through expanded cyber cooperation and enhanced resilience against disinformation and malign influence.
1239.
Report on Russian Federation support of racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the head of any other relevant Federal department or agency, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on Russian Federation support of racially and ethnically motivated violent extremist groups and networks in Europe and the United States, including such support provided by agents and entities of the Russian Federation acting at the direction or for the benefit of the Government of the Russian Federation.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A list of each racially or ethnically motivated violent extremist group or network in Europe or the United States known to meet, or suspected of meeting, the following criteria:
(A)
The group or network has been targeted or recruited by the security services of the Russian Federation.
(B)
The group or network has received support (including training, disinformation or amplification on social media platforms, financial support, and any other support) from the Russian Federation or an agent or entity of the Russian Federation acting at the direction or for the benefit of the Government of the Russian Federation.
(C)
The group—
(i)
has leadership or a base of operations located within the Russian Federation; and
(ii)
operates or maintains a chapter or network of the group in Europe or the United States.
(2)
An assessment of the manner in which Russian Federation support of such groups or networks aligns with the strategic interests of the Russian Federation with respect to Europe and the United States.
(3)
An assessment of the role of such groups or networks in—
(A)
assisting Russian Federation-backed separatist forces in the Donbas region of Ukraine; or
(B)
destabilizing security on the Crimean peninsula of Ukraine.
(4)
An assessment of the manner in which Russian Federation support of such groups or networks has—
(A)
contributed to the destabilization of security in the Balkans; and
(B)
threatened the support for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Southeastern Europe.
(5)
A description of any relationship or affiliation between such groups or networks and ultranationalist or extremist political parties in Europe and the United States, and an assessment of the manner in which the Russian Federation may use such a relationship or affiliation to advance the strategic interests of the Russian Federation.
(6)
A description of the use by the Russian Federation of social media platforms to support or amplify the presence or messaging of such groups or networks, and an assessment of any effort in Europe or the United States to counter such support or amplification.
(7)
A description of the legal and political implications of the designation of the Russian Imperial Movement, and members of the leadership of the Russian Imperial Movement, as specially designated global terrorists pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism) and the response of the Government of the Russian Federation to such designation.
(8)
Recommendations of the Secretary of Defense, consistent with a whole-of-government approach to countering Russian Federation information warfare and malign influence operations—
(A)
to mitigate the security threat posed by such groups or networks; and
(B)
to reduce or counter Russian Federation support for such groups or networks.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
1240.
Participation in European program on multilateral exchange of surface transportation services
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 138
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (l) the following new section 2350m:
2350m.
Participation in European program on multilateral exchange of surface transportation services
(a)
Participation authorized
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may authorize the participation of the Department of Defense in the Surface Exchange of Services program (in this section referred to as the
SEOS program
) of the Movement Coordination Centre Europe.
(2)
Scope of participation
Participation of the Department of Defense in the SEOS program under paragraph (1) may include—
(A)
the reciprocal exchange or transfer of surface transportation on a reimbursable basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
(B)
the exchange of surface transportation services of an equal value.
(b)
Written arrangement or agreement
(1)
In general
Participation of the Department of Defense in the SEOS program shall be in accordance with a written arrangement or agreement entered into by the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and the Movement Coordination Centre Europe.
(2)
Notification
The Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees notification of any arrangement or agreement entered into under paragraph (1).
(3)
Funding arrangements
If Department of Defense facilities, equipment, or funds are used to support the SEOS program, the written arrangement or agreement under paragraph (1) shall specify the details of any equitable cost-sharing or other funding arrangement.
(4)
Other elements
Any written arrangement or agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall require that any accrued credits or liability resulting from an unequal exchange or transfer of surface transportation services shall be liquidated through the SEOS program not less than once every five years.
(c)
Implementation
In carrying out any arrangement or agreement entered into under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may—
(1)
pay the equitable share of the Department of Defense for the operating expenses of the Movement Coordination Centre Europe and the SEOS program from funds available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance; and
(2)
assign members of the armed forces or Department of Defense civilian personnel, within billets authorized for the United States European Command, to duty at the Movement Coordination Centre Europe as necessary to fulfill Department of Defense obligations under that arrangement or agreement.
(d)
Crediting of receipts
Any amount received by the Department of Defense as part of the SEOS program shall be credited, at the option of the Secretary of Defense, to—
(1)
the appropriation, fund, or account used in incurring the obligation for which such amount is received; or
(2)
an appropriate appropriation, fund, or account currently available for the purposes for which the expenditures were made.
(e)
Annual report
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year in which the authority under this section is in effect, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on Department of Defense participation in the SEOS program during such fiscal year.
(2)
Elements
Each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the equitable share of the costs and activities of the SEOS program paid by the Department of Defense.
(B)
A description of any amount received by the Department of Defense as part of such program, including the country from which the amount was received.
(f)
Limitation on statutory construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize the use of foreign sealift in violation of section 2631.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2350l the following new item:
2350m. Participation in European program on multilateral exchange of surface transportation services.
.
1241.
Participation in programs relating to coordination or exchange of air refueling and air transportation services
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 138
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 1240(a), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2350o.
Participation in programs relating to coordination or exchange of air refueling and air transportation services
(a)
Participation authorized
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may authorize the participation of the Department of Defense in programs relating to the coordination or exchange of air refueling and air transportation services, including in the arrangement known as the Air Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges of Services program (in this section referred to as the
ATARES program
).
(2)
Scope of participation
Participation of the Department of Defense in programs referred to in paragraph (1) may include—
(A)
the reciprocal exchange or transfer of air refueling and air transportation services on a reimbursable basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
(B)
the exchange of air refueling and air transportation services of an equal value.
(3)
Limitations with respect to participation in ATARES program
(A)
In general
The Department of Defense balance of executed flight hours in participation in the ATARES program under paragraph (1), whether as credits or debits, may not exceed a total of 500 hours.
(B)
Air refueling
The Department of Defense balance of executed flight hours for air refueling in participation in the ATARES program under paragraph (1) may not exceed 200 hours.
(b)
Written arrangement or agreement
Participation of the Department of Defense in a program referred to in subsection (a)(1) shall be in accordance with a written arrangement or agreement entered into by the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
(c)
Implementation
In carrying out any arrangement or agreement entered into under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may—
(1)
pay the equitable share of the Department of Defense for the recurring and nonrecurring costs of the applicable program referred to in subsection (a)(1) from funds available to the Department for operation and maintenance; and
(2)
assign members of the armed forces or Department of Defense civilian personnel to fulfill Department obligations under that arrangement or agreement.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter, as amended by section 1240(b), is further amended by adding at the end the following new item:
2350o. Participation in programs relating to coordination or exchange of air refueling and air transportation services.
.
(c)
Repeal
Section 1276 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (
10 U.S.C. 2350c
note) is repealed.
1242.
Sense of Congress on support for coordinated action to ensure the security of Baltic allies
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the continued security of the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania is critical to achieving United States national security interests and defense objectives against the acute and formidable threat posed by Russia;
(2)
the United States and the Baltic states are leaders in the mission of defending independence and democracy from aggression and in promoting stability and security within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), with non-NATO partners, and with other international organizations such as the European Union;
(3)
the Baltic states are model NATO allies in terms of burden sharing and capital investment in materiel critical to United States and allied security, investment of over 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense expenditure, allocating over 20 percent of their defense budgets on capital modernization, matching security assistance from the United States, frequently deploying their forces around the world in support of allied and United States objectives, and sharing diplomatic, technical, military, and analytical expertise on defense and security matters;
(4)
the United States should continue to strengthen bilateral and multilateral defense by, with, and through allied nations, particularly those that possess expertise and dexterity but do not enjoy the benefits of national economies of scale;
(5)
the United States should pursue a dedicated initiative focused on defense and security assistance, coordination, and planning designed to ensure the continued security of the Baltic states and on deterring current and future challenges to the national sovereignty of United States allies and partners in the Baltic region; and
(6)
such an initiative should include an innovative and comprehensive conflict deterrence strategy for the Baltic region encompassing the unique geography of the Baltic states, modern and diffuse threats to their land, sea, and air spaces, and necessary improvements to their defense posture, including command-and-control infrastructure, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities, communications equipment and networks, and special forces.
E
Matters relating to the Indo-Pacific region
1251.
Pacific Deterrence Initiative
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out an initiative to ensure the effective implementation of the National Defense Strategy with respect to the Indo-Pacific region, to be known as the
Pacific Deterrence Initiative
(in this section referred to as the
Initiative
).
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the Initiative is to carry out only the following activities:
(1)
Activities to increase the lethality of the joint force in the Indo-Pacific region, including, but not limited to—
(A)
by improving active and passive defenses against theater cruise, ballistic, and hypersonic missiles for bases, operating locations, and other critical infrastructure at locations west of the International Date Line; and
(B)
procurement and fielding of—
(i)
long-range precision strike systems to be stationed or pre-positioned west of the International Date Line;
(ii)
critical munitions to be pre-positioned at locations west of the International Date Line; and
(iii)
command, control, communications, computers and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems intended for stationing or operational use in the Indo-Pacific region.
(2)
Activities to enhance the design and posture of the joint force in the Indo-Pacific region, including, but not limited to, by—
(A)
transitioning from large, centralized, and unhardened infrastructure to smaller, dispersed, resilient, and adaptive basing at locations west of the International Date Line;
(B)
increasing the number and capabilities of expeditionary airfields and ports in the Indo-Pacific region available for operational use at locations west of the International Date Line;
(C)
enhancing pre-positioned forward stocks of fuel, munitions, equipment, and materiel at locations west of the International Date Line;
(D)
increasing the availability of strategic mobility assets in the Indo-Pacific region;
(E)
improving distributed logistics and maintenance capabilities in the Indo-Pacific region to ensure logistics sustainment while under persistent multidomain attack; and
(F)
increasing the presence of the Armed Forces at locations west of the International Date Line.
(3)
Activities to strengthen alliances and partnerships, including, but not limited to, by—
(A)
building capacity of allies and partners; and
(B)
improving—
(i)
interoperability and information sharing with allies and partners; and
(ii)
information operations capabilities in the Indo-Pacific region, with a focus on reinforcing United States commitment to allies and partners and countering malign influence.
(4)
Activities to carry out a program of exercises, experimentation, and innovation for the joint force in the Indo-Pacific region.
(c)
Plan required
Not later than February 15, 2021, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to expend not less than the amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (e)(2).
(d)
Budget display information
The Secretary shall include in the materials of the Department of Defense in support of the budget of the President (submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code) for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter a detailed budget display for the Initiative that includes the following information:
(1)
A future-years plan with respect to activities and resources for the Initiative for the applicable fiscal year and not fewer than the four following fiscal years.
(2)
With respect to procurement accounts—
(A)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line number, line item, and line item title; and
(B)
a description of the requirements for such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(3)
With respect to research, development, test, and evaluation accounts—
(A)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line number, program element, and program element title; and
(B)
a description of the requirements for such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(4)
With respect to operation and maintenance accounts—
(A)
amounts displayed by account title, budget activity title, line number, and subactivity group title; and
(B)
a description of the specific manner in which such amounts will be used.
(5)
With respect to military personnel accounts—
(A)
amounts displayed by account, budget activity, budget subactivity, and budget subactivity title; and
(B)
a description of the requirements for such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(6)
With respect to each project under military construction accounts (including with respect to unspecified minor military construction and amounts for planning and design), the country, location, project title, and project amount by fiscal year.
(7)
With respect to the activities described in subsection (b)—
(A)
amounts displayed by account title, budget activity title, line number, and subactivity group title; and
(B)
a description of the specific manner in which such amounts will be used.
(8)
With respect to each military service—
(A)
amounts displayed by account title, budget activity title, line number, and subactivity group title; and
(B)
a description of the specific manner in which such amounts will be used.
(9)
With respect to the amounts described in each of paragraphs (2)(A), (3)(A), (4)(A), (5)(A), (6), (7)(A), and (8)(A), a comparison between—
(A)
the amount in the budget of the President for the following fiscal year; and
(B)
the amount projected in the previous budget of the President for the following fiscal year.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the activities of the Initiative described in subsection (b) the following:
(1)
For fiscal year 2021, $1,406,417,000, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
(2)
For fiscal year 2022, $5,500,000,000.
(f)
Repeal
Section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1676), as most recently amended by section 1253 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2054), is repealed.
1252.
Sense of Senate on the United States-Vietnam defense relationship
In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the normalization of diplomatic relations between the United States and Vietnam, the Senate—
(1)
welcomes the historic progress and achievements in United States-Vietnam relations over the last 25 years;
(2)
congratulates Vietnam on its chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and its election as a nonpermanent member of the United Nations Security Council, both of which symbolize the positive leadership role of Vietnam in regional and global affairs;
(3)
commends the commitment of Vietnam to resolve international disputes through peaceful means on the basis of international law;
(4)
affirms the commitment of the United States—
(A)
to respect the independence and sovereignty of Vietnam; and
(B)
to establish and promote friendly relations and work together on an equal footing for mutual benefit with Vietnam;
(5)
encourages the United States and Vietnam to elevate their comprehensive partnership to a strategic partnership based on mutual understanding, shared interests, and a common desire to promote peace, cooperation, prosperity, and security in the Indo-Pacific region;
(6)
affirms the commitment of the United States to continue to address war legacy issues, including through dioxin remediation, unexploded ordnance removal, accounting for prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action, and other activities; and
(7)
supports deepening defense cooperation between the United States and Vietnam, including with respect to maritime security, cybersecurity, counterterrorism, information sharing, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, military medicine, peacekeeping operations, defense trade, and other areas.
1253.
Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup
(a)
Transfer authority
Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the Secretary of State, for use by the United States Agency for International Development, amounts to be used for the Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup in Vietnam.
(b)
Limitation on amount
Not more than $15,000,000 may be transferred in fiscal year 2021 under the transfer authority in subsection (a).
(c)
Additional transfer authority
The transfer authority in subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.
(d)
Notice on exercise of authority
If the Secretary of Defense determines to use the transfer authority in subsection (a), the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committee of that determination not later than 30 days before the Secretary uses the transfer authority.
1254.
Cooperative program with Vietnam to account for Vietnamese personnel missing in action
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, in cooperation with other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, is authorized to carry out a cooperative program with the Ministry of Defense of Vietnam to assist in accounting for Vietnamese personnel missing in action.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of the cooperative program under subsection (a) is to carry out the following activities:
(1)
Collection, digitization, and sharing of archival information.
(2)
Building the capacity of Vietnam to conduct archival research, investigations, and excavations.
(3)
Improving DNA analysis capacity.
(4)
Increasing veteran-to-veteran exchanges.
(5)
Other support activities the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate.
1255.
Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll, Republic of the Marshall Islands
(a)
In general
Chapter 767
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7596.
Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll
(a)
Authority
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may provide goods and services, including interatoll transportation, to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and other eligible patrons, as determined by the Secretary of the Army, at Kwajalein Atoll.
(2)
The Secretary of the Army may not provide goods or services under this section if doing so would be inconsistent, as determined by the Secretary of State, with the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or any subsidiary agreement or implementing arrangement.
(b)
Reimbursement
(1)
The Secretary of the Army may collect reimbursement from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and eligible patrons for the provision of goods or services under subsection (a).
(2)
The amount collected for goods or services under this subsection may not be greater than the total amount of actual costs to the United States for providing the goods or services.
(c)
Necessary expenses
Amounts appropriated to the Department of the Army may be used for necessary expenses associated with providing goods and services under this section.
(d)
Regulations
The Secretary of the Army shall issue regulations to carry out this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
7596. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll.
.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of the Army shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the use of the authority under section 7596(a) of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), in fiscal year 2021, including a written summary describing the goods and services provided on a reimbursable basis and the goods and services provided on a nonreimbursable basis.
1256.
Authority to establish a Movement Coordination Center Pacific in the Indo-Pacific region and participate in an Air Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges of Services program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may authorize—
(1)
the establishment of a Movement Coordination Center Pacific (in this section referred to as the
Center
); and
(2)
participation of the Department of Defense in an Air Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges of Services program (in this section referred to as the
ATARES program
) of the Center.
(b)
Scope of participation
Participation of the Department in the ATARES program shall be limited to—
(1)
the reciprocal exchange or transfer of air transportation and air refueling services on a reimbursable basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
(2)
the exchange of air transportation or air refueling services of equal value.
(c)
Limitations
(1)
Transportation hours
The Department balance of executed transportation hours in the ATARES program, whether as credits or debits, may not exceed 500 hours.
(2)
Flight hours
The Department balance of executed flight hours for air refueling in the ATARES program may not exceed 200 hours.
(d)
Written arrangement or agreement
(1)
In general
Participation of the Department in the ATARES program shall be in accordance with a written arrangement or agreement entered into by the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
(2)
Funding arrangements
If Department facilities, equipment, or funds are used to support the ATARES program, the written arrangement or agreement under paragraph (1) shall specify the details of any equitable cost-sharing or other funding arrangement.
(3)
Other elements
Any written arrangement or agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall require any accrued credit or liability resulting from an unequal exchange or transfer of air transportation or air refueling services to be liquidated through the ATARES program not less frequently than once every five years.
(e)
Implementation
In carrying out any written arrangement or agreement entered into under subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense may—
(1)
pay the equitable share of the Department for the operating expenses of the Center and the ATARES program from funds available to the Department for operation and maintenance; and
(2)
assign members of the Armed Forces or Department civilian personnel, within billets authorized for the United States Indo-Pacific Command, to duty at the Center as necessary to fulfill Department obligations under that arrangement or agreement.
1257.
Training of ally and partner air forces in Guam
(a)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the memorandum of understanding agreed to by the United States and the Republic of Singapore on December 6, 2019, to establish a fighter jet training detachment in Guam should be commended;
(2)
such agreement is a manifestation of the strong, enduring, and forward-looking partnership of the United States and the Republic of Singapore; and
(3)
the permanent establishment of a fighter detachment in Guam will further enhance the interoperability of the air forces of the United States and the Republic of Singapore and provide training opportunities needed to maximize their readiness.
(b)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report assessing the merit and feasibility of entering into agreements similar to the memorandum of understanding referred to in subsection (a)(1) with other United States allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, including Japan, Australia, and India.
1258.
Statement of policy and sense of Senate on the Taiwan Relations Act
(a)
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States—
(1)
that the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.) and the
Six Assurances
provided by the United States to Taiwan in July 1982 are the foundation for United States-Taiwan relations;
(2)
that nothing in the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.) constrains deepening, to the extent possible, the extensive, close, and friendly relations of the United States and Taiwan, including defense relations;
(3)
that the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.) shall be implemented and executed in a manner consistent with evolving political, security, and economic dynamics and circumstances;
(4)
that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.), the United States expects the
future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means,
and that
any effort to determine the future of Taiwan by other than peaceful means
is
a threat to the peace and security of the Western Pacific area and of grave concern to the United States
;
(5)
that the increasingly coercive and aggressive behavior of the People’s Republic of China towards Taiwan, including growing military maneuvers targeting Taiwan, is contrary to the expectation of the peaceful resolution of the future of Taiwan;
(6)
that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.), the United States will support the development of capable, ready, and modern defense forces necessary for Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability, including by—
(A)
supporting acquisition by Taiwan of defense articles and services through foreign military sales, direct commercial sales, and industrial cooperation, with an emphasis on capabilities that support the asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan, including antiship, coastal defense, antiarmor, air defense, undersea warfare, advanced command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, and resilient command and control capabilities;
(B)
ensuring timely review of and response to requests of Taiwan for defense articles and services;
(C)
conducting practical training and military exercises with Taiwan, including, as appropriate, the Rim of the Pacific exercise, combined training at the National Training Center at Fort Erwin, and bilateral naval exercises and training;
(D)
examining the potential for expanding professional military education and technical training opportunities in the United States for military personnel of Taiwan;
(E)
pursuing a strategy of military engagement with Taiwan that fully integrates exchanges at the strategic, policy, and functional levels;
(F)
increasing exchanges between senior defense officials and general officers of the United States and Taiwan consistent with the Taiwan Travel Act (
Public Law 115–135
; 132 Stat. 341), especially for the purpose of enhancing cooperation on defense planning and improving the interoperability of the military forces of the United States and Taiwan;
(G)
conducting military exchanges with Taiwan specifically focused on improving the reserve force of Taiwan; and
(H)
expanding cooperation in military medicine and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, including through the participation of medical vessels of Taiwan in appropriate exercises with the United States; and
(7)
that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (
Public Law 96–8
;
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.), the United States will maintain the capacity
to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan
, including the capacity of the United States Armed Forces to deny a
fait accompli
operation by the People’s Republic of China to rapidly seize control of Taiwan.
(b)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of Defense should—
(1)
ensure that policy guidance to the Department of Defense related to United States-Taiwan defense relations is fully consistent with the statement of policy set forth in subsection (a); and
(2)
issue new policy guidance required to carry out such policy.
1259.
Sense of Congress on port calls in Taiwan with the USNS Comfort and the USNS Mercy
It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense should conduct port calls in Taiwan with the USNS Comfort and the USNS Mercy —
(1)
to continue the collaboration between the United States and Taiwan on COVID–19 responses, which has included—
(A)
research and development of tests, vaccines, and medicines; and
(B)
donations of face masks;
(2)
to further improve the cooperation between the United States and Taiwan on military medicine and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief;
(3)
to allow United States personnel to benefit from the expertise of Taiwanese personnel, in light of the successful response of Taiwan to COVID–19; and
(4)
to continue the mission of the USNS Comfort and the USNS Mercy, which have demonstrated the value of the Department capacity to deploy maritime medical capabilities worldwide and provide contingency capacity in the United States during significant crises.
1260.
Limitation on use of funds to reduce total number of members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are deployed to the Republic of Korea
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to reduce the total number of members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty and deployed to the Republic of Korea to fewer than 28,500 such members of the Armed Forces until 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that—
(1)
such a reduction—
(A)
is in the national security interest of the United States; and
(B)
will not significantly undermine the security of United States allies in the region; and
(2)
the Secretary has appropriately consulted with allies of the United States, including the Republic of Korea and Japan, regarding such a reduction.
1261.
Sense of Congress on co-development with Japan of a long-range ground-based anti-ship cruise missile system
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Department of Defense should prioritize consultations with the Ministry of Defense of Japan to determine whether a ground-based, long-range anti-ship cruise missile system would meet shared defense requirements of the United States and Japan; and
(2)
if it is determined that a ground-based, long-range anti-ship cruise missile system would meet shared defense requirements, the United States and Japan should consider co-development of such a system.
1262.
Statement of policy on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region
It is the policy of the United States—
(1)
to strengthen alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region and Europe and with like-minded countries around the globe to effectively compete with the People’s Republic of China; and
(2)
to work in collaboration with such allies and partners—
(A)
to address significant diplomatic, economic, and military challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China;
(B)
to deter the People’s Republic of China from pursuing military aggression;
(C)
to promote the peaceful resolution of territorial disputes in accordance with international law;
(D)
to promote private sector-led long-term economic development while countering efforts by the Government of the People’s Republic of China to leverage predatory economic practices as a means of political and economic coercion in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond;
(E)
to promote the values of democracy and human rights, including through efforts to end the repression by the Chinese Communist Party of political dissidents and Uyghurs and other ethnic Muslim minorities, Tibetan Buddhists, Christians, and other minorities;
(F)
to respond to the crackdown by the Chinese Communist Party, in contravention of the commitments made under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984 and the Basic Law of Hong Kong, on the legitimate aspirations of the people of Hong Kong; and
(G)
to counter the Chinese Communist Party's efforts to spread disinformation in the People’s Republic of China and beyond with respect to the response of the Chinese Communist Party to COVID–19.
1263.
Extension of prohibition on commercial export of certain munitions to the Hong Kong Police Force
Section 3 of the Act entitled
An Act to prohibit the commercial export of covered munitions items to the Hong Kong Police Force
, approved November 27, 2019 (
Public Law 116–77
; 133 Stat. 1174), is amended by striking
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act
and inserting
on November 27, 2021
.
1264.
Implementation of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act with regard to Taiwan arms sales
(a)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Department of Defense Indo-Pacific Strategy Report, released on June 1, 2019, states:
[T]he Asia Reassurance Initiative Act, a major bipartisan legislation, was signed into law by President Trump on December 31, 2018. This legislation enshrines a generational whole-of-government policy framework that demonstrates U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific region and includes initiatives that promote sovereignty, rule of law, democracy, economic engagement, and regional security.
.
(2)
The Indo-Pacific Strategy Report further states:
The United States has a vital interest in upholding the rules-based international order, which includes a strong, prosperous, and democratic Taiwan…The Department [of Defense] is committed to providing Taiwan with defense articles and services in such quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability.
.
(3)
Section 209(b) of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (
22 U.S.C. 3301
note), signed into law on December 31, 2018—
(A)
builds on longstanding commitments enshrined in the Taiwan Relations Act (
22 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.) to provide Taiwan with defense articles; and
(B)
states:
The President should conduct regular transfers of defense articles to Taiwan that are tailored to meet the existing and likely future threats from the People’s Republic of China, including supporting the efforts of Taiwan to develop and integrate asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, including mobile, survivable, and cost-effective capabilities, into its military forces.
.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (
Public Law 115–409
; 132 Stat. 5387) has recommitted the United States to support the close, economic, political, and security relationship between the United States and Taiwan; and
(2)
the United States should fully implement the provisions of that Act with regard to regular defensive arms sales to Taiwan.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, or their designees, shall brief the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives on the efforts to implement section 209(b) of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (
22 U.S.C. 3301
note).
F
Reports
1271.
Review of and report on overdue acquisition and cross-servicing agreement transactions
(a)
Review
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the official designated to provide oversight of acquisition and cross-servicing agreements under section 2342(f) of title 10, United States Code, shall conduct a review of acquisition and cross-servicing transactions for which reimbursement to the United States is overdue under section 2345 of that title.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the designated official described in subsection (a) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the review.
(2)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
For each acquisition and cross-servicing transaction valued at $1,000,000 or more for which reimbursement to the United States was overdue as of October 1, 2019—
(i)
the total amount of the transaction;
(ii)
the unreimbursed balance of the transaction;
(iii)
the date on which the original transaction was made;
(iv)
the date on which the most recent request for payment was sent to the relevant foreign partner; and
(v)
a plan for securing reimbursement from the foreign partner.
(B)
A description of the steps taken to implement the recommendations made in the report of the Government Accountability Office entitled
Defense Logistics Agreements: DOD Should Improve Oversight and Seek Payment from Foreign Partners for Thousands of Orders It Identifies as Overdue
issued in March 2020, including efforts to validate data reported under this subsection and in the system of record for acquisition and cross-servicing agreements of the Department of Defense.
(C)
The amount of reimbursement received from foreign partners for each order—
(i)
for which the reimbursement is recorded as overdue in the system of record for acquisition and cross-servicing agreements of the Department of Defense; and
(ii)
that was authorized during the period beginning in October 2013 and ending in September 2020.
(D)
A plan for improving recordkeeping of acquisition and cross-servicing transactions and ensuring timely reimbursement by foreign partners.
(E)
Any other matter considered relevant by the designated official described in subsection (a).
1272.
Report on burden sharing contributions by designated countries
Section 2350j of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
Report on contributions received from designated countries
(1)
In general
Not later than January 15 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the burden sharing contributions received under this section from designated countries.
(2)
Elements
Each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following for the preceding fiscal year:
(A)
A list of all designated countries from which burden sharing contributions were received.
(B)
An explanation of the purpose for which each such burden sharing contribution was provided.
(C)
In the case of a written agreement entered into with a designated country under this section—
(i)
the date on which the agreement was signed; and
(ii)
the names of the individuals who signed the agreement.
(D)
For each designated country—
(i)
the amount provided by the designated country; and
(ii)
the amount of any remaining unobligated balance.
(E)
The amount of such burden sharing contributions expended, by eligible category, including compensation for local national employees, military construction projects, and supplies and services of the Department of Defense.
(F)
An explanation of any other burden sharing or in-kind contribution provided by a designated country under an agreement or authority other than the authority provided by this section.
(G)
Any other matter the Secretary of Defenses considers relevant.
(3)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
.
1273.
Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due to Huawei 5G architecture in host countries
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that contains an assessment of—
(1)
the risk to personnel, equipment, and operations of the Department of Defense in host countries posed by the current or intended use by such countries of 5G telecommunications architecture provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; and
(2)
measures required to mitigate the risk described in paragraph (1), including the merit and feasibility of the relocation of certain personnel or equipment of the Department to another location without the presence of 5G telecommunications architecture provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
(b)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in classified form with an unclassified summary.
1274.
Allied burden sharing report
(a)
Finding; sense of Congress
(1)
Finding
Congress finds that section 1003 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 (
Public Law 98–525
; 63 Stat. 2241)—
(A)
expresses the sense of Congress that, due to threats that are ever-changing, Congress must be informed with respect to allied contributions to the common defense to properly assess the readiness of the United States and the countries described in subsection (b)(2) for threats; and
(B)
requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress an annual report on the contributions of allies to the common defense.
(2)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(A)
the threats facing the United States—
(i)
extend beyond the global war on terror; and
(ii)
include near-peer threats; and
(B)
the President should seek from each country described in subsection (b)(2) acceptance of international security responsibilities and agreements to make contributions to the common defense in accordance with the collective defense agreements or treaties to which such country is a party.
(b)
Reports on allied contributions to the common defense
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1 each year, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the heads of other Federal agencies, as the Secretary determines to be necessary, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing a description of—
(A)
the annual defense spending by each country described in paragraph (2), including available data on nominal budget figures and defense spending as a percentage of the gross domestic products of each such country for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted;
(B)
the activities of each such country to contribute to military or stability operations in which the Armed Forces of the United States are a participant or may be called upon in accordance with a cooperative defense agreement to which the United States is a party;
(C)
any limitations placed by any such country on the use of such contributions; and
(D)
any actions undertaken by the United States or by other countries to minimize such limitations.
(2)
Countries described
The countries described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
Each member state of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(B)
Each member state of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
(C)
Each country party to the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty), done at Rio de Janeiro September 2, 1947, and entered into force December 3, 1948 (TIAS 1838).
(D)
Australia.
(E)
Japan.
(F)
New Zealand.
(G)
The Philippines.
(H)
South Korea.
(I)
Thailand.
(3)
Form
Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
(4)
Availability
A report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be made available on request to any Member of Congress.
(c)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
G
Other matters
1281.
Reciprocal patient movement agreements
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 138
of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 1241(a), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2350p.
Reciprocal patient movement agreements
(a)
Authority
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may enter into a bilateral or multilateral memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement with one or more governments of partner countries that provides for—
(1)
the interchangeable, nonreimbursable use of patient movement personnel, either individually or as members of a patient movement crew or team, and equipment, belonging to one partner country to perform patient movement services aboard the aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of another partner country;
(2)
the reciprocal recognition and acceptance of —
(A)
national professional credentials, certifications, and licenses of patient movement personnel; and
(B)
national certifications, approvals, and licenses of equipment used in the provision of patient movement services; and
(3)
the acceptance of agreed-upon standards for the provision of patient movement services by aircraft, vessel, or vehicle, including, as determined to be beneficial and otherwise permitted by law, the harmonization of patient treatment standards and procedures.
(b)
Certification
(1)
Before entering into a memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement with the government of a partner country under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall certify in writing that the professional credentials, certifications, licenses, and approvals for patient movement personnel and patient movement equipment of the partner country—
(A)
meet or exceed the equivalent standards of the United States for similar personnel and equipment; and
(B)
will provide for a level of care comparable to, or better than, the level of care provided by the Department of Defense.
(2)
A certification under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A)
submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress not later than 15 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense makes the certification; and
(B)
reviewed and recertified by the Secretary of Defense not less frequently than annually.
(c)
Suspension
If the Secretary of Defense is unable to recertify a partner country as required by subsection (b)(2)(B), use of the personnel or equipment of the partner country by the Department of Defense under a memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement concluded pursuant to subsection (a) shall be suspended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense is able to recertify the partner country.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the congressional defense committees; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Partner country
The term
partner country
means any of the following:
(A)
A member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(B)
Australia.
(C)
Japan.
(D)
New Zealand.
(E)
The Republic of Korea.
(F)
Any other country designated as a partner country by the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, for purposes of this section.
(3)
Patient movement
The term
patient movement
means the act or process of moving wounded, ill, injured, or other persons (including contaminated, contagious, and potentially exposed patients) to obtain medical, surgical, mental health, or dental care or treatment.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter, as amended by section 1241(b), is further amended by adding at the end the following new item:
2350p. Reciprocal patient movement agreements.
.
1282.
Extension of authorization of non-conventional assisted recovery capabilities
Subsection (g) of section 943 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4578), as most recently amended by section 1282(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2542) and as redesignated by section 1051(n)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1564), is further amended by striking
2021
and inserting
2024
.
1283.
Extension of Department of Defense support for stabilization activities in national security interest of the United States
Section 1210A(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking
December 31, 2020
and inserting
December 31, 2021
.
1284.
Notification with respect to withdrawal of members of the Armed Forces participating in the Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days before a reduction in the total number of members of the Armed Forces deployed to the Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt to fewer than 430 such members of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a notification that includes the following:
(1)
A detailed accounting of the number of members of the Armed Forces to be withdrawn from the Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt and the capabilities that such members of the Armed Forces provide in support of the mission.
(2)
An explanation of national security interests of the United States served by such a reduction and an assessment of the effect, if any, such a reduction is expected to have on the security of United States partners in the region.
(3)
A description of consultations by the Secretary with the other countries that contribute military forces to the Multinational Force and Observers, including Australia, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Fiji, France, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay, with respect to the planned force reduction and the results of such consultations.
(4)
An assessment of whether other countries, including the countries that contribute military forces to the Multinational Force and Observers, will increase their contributions of military forces to compensate for the capabilities withdrawn by the United States.
(5)
An explanation of—
(A)
any anticipated negative impact of such a reduction on the ability of the Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt to fulfill its mission of supervising the implementation of the security provisions of the 1979 Treaty of Peace between Egypt and Israel and employing best efforts to prevent any violation of the terms of such treaty; and
(B)
the manner in which any such negative impact will be mitigated.
(6)
Any other matter the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Form
The notification required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the congressional defense committees; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1285.
Modification to initiative to support protection of national security academic researchers from undue influence and other security threats
Section 1286 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
includes requirements for appropriate senior officials of institutions of higher education to receive from appropriate Government agencies updated and periodic briefings that describe the espionage risks posed by technical intelligence gathering activities of near-peer strategic competitors.
; and
(2)
in subsection (e)(2)(D), by striking
improve
and inserting
improved
.
1286.
Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group
(a)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the United States Government has a responsibility to undertake all reasonable measures to ensure that members of the Armed Forces never confront a more technologically advanced foe;
(2)
the United States and Israel have several cooperative technology programs to develop and field capabilities in missile defense, countertunneling, and counterunmanned aerial systems; and
(3)
building on positive ongoing efforts, the United States and Israel should further institutionalize and strengthen their defense innovation partnership by establishing a United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group to identify and expeditiously field capabilities that the military forces of both countries need to deter and defeat respective adversaries.
(b)
United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Minister of Defense of Israel, shall establish a United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group (in this subsection referred to as the
Working Group
) for the following purposes:
(A)
To provide a standing forum for the United States and Israel to systematically share intelligence-informed military capability requirements.
(B)
To identify military capability requirements common to both the Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of Israel.
(C)
To assist defense suppliers in the United States and Israel, by incorporating recommendations from such defense suppliers, with respect to conducting joint science, technology, research, development, test, evaluation, and production efforts.
(D)
To develop, as feasible and advisable, combined United States-Israel plans to research, develop, procure, and field weapons systems and military capabilities as quickly and economically as possible to meet common capability requirements of the Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of Israel.
(2)
Working Group leadership
(A)
United States leadership
With respect to the United States, the Working Group shall be headed by—
(i)
the Secretary, or a designee; and
(ii)
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or a designee.
(B)
Israel leadership
The Secretary shall invite the Government of Israel to designate the head of the appropriate office or offices to head the Working Group with respect to Israel.
(3)
Working Group membership
(A)
United States membership
The Secretary, in consultation with other Cabinet members, shall designate one or more individuals to serve as members of the Working Group.
(i)
Mandatory United States members
The membership of the Working Group shall consist of, at a minimum, representatives from—
(I)
the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
(II)
the Joint Staff;
(III)
each of the military departments (including, as appropriate, subordinate entities such as Army Futures Command and research laboratories);
(IV)
the defense agencies (including the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Defense Security Cooperation Agency);
(V)
United States Central Command; and
(VI)
United States European Command.
(ii)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed as limiting the ability of the Secretary to add members to the Working Group, as considered appropriate.
(B)
Israel membership
The Secretary shall invite such representatives of the Government of Israel to designate individuals from the Government of Israel to serve as members of the Working Group, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(4)
Existing efforts
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall determine the most efficient and effective means to integrate the Working Group into existing United States science and technology efforts and research, development, test, and evaluation efforts with Israel.
(B)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the termination of any existing United States defense activity, group, program, or partnership with Israel.
(5)
Memorandum of understanding
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall, with the concurrence of the Minister of Defense of Israel, establish a memorandum of understanding between the United States and Israel establishing the United States-Israel Operations Technology Working Group.
(B)
Matters to be included
The memorandum of understanding under subparagraph (A) shall set forth—
(i)
the purposes of the Working Group, consistent with paragraph (1);
(ii)
the membership of the Working Group, consistent with paragraph (3); and
(iii)
any other matter considered appropriate.
(6)
Reports
(A)
Initial report
(i)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the establishment of the Working Group, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an initial report on the Working Group.
(ii)
Elements
The report required by clause (i) shall include the following:
(I)
The finalized memorandum of understanding under paragraph (5).
(II)
The name of each individual of the Government of the United States and of the Government of Israel designated to lead the Working Group.
(III)
The name of each member of the Working Group designated under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (3).
(IV)
A description of the manner in which the Working Group is anticipated to complement and augment existing science and technology efforts and research, development, test, and evaluation efforts with Israel.
(V)
A schedule for Working Group meetings.
(VI)
A description of key metrics and milestones for the Working Group.
(VII)
A description of any authority or authorization of appropriations required for the Working Group to carry out the purposes described in paragraph (1).
(iii)
Form
The report required by clause (i) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(B)
Annual report
(i)
In general
Not later than March 15 of each year following the submittal of the initial report required by subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the activities of the Working Group during the preceding calendar year.
(ii)
Elements
The report required by clause (i) shall include the following:
(I)
A summary of the performance of the Working Group—
(aa)
with respect to the first annual report under this subparagraph, the metrics and milestones described in the initial report in accordance with subparagraph (A)(ii)(VI); or
(bb)
with respect to each subsequent annual report under this subparagraph, the metrics and milestones described in the preceding annual report under subclause (VIII).
(II)
A description of military capabilities needed by both the United States and Israel.
(III)
A description of any United States, or any United States-Israel, science and technology efforts, or research, development, test, and evaluation efforts, associated with the military capabilities described under subclause (II) carried out during the reporting period.
(IV)
A description of any obstacle or challenge associated with an effort described in subclause (III) and the plan of the Working Group to address such obstacle or challenge.
(V)
A description of any request to the Working Group made by a United States or Israel defense supplier for combined science and technology efforts or combined research, development, test, and evaluation efforts, including—
(aa)
the date on which the request was received;
(bb)
the efforts made by the Working Group to expeditiously address the request; and
(cc)
the status of any decision associated with the request.
(VI)
A description of the efforts of the Working Group to prevent the People's Republic of China or the Russian Federation from obtaining intellectual property or military technology associated with combined United States and Israel science and technology efforts and research, development, test, and evaluation efforts.
(VII)
A description of any science and technology effort, or research, development, test, or evaluation effort, facilitated by the Working Group, including efforts that result in a United States or Israel program of record.
(VIII)
A description of metrics and milestones for the Working Group for the following calendar year.
(iii)
Form
Each report required by clause (i) shall be submitted in unclassified form and shall include a classified annex in which the elements required under subclauses (II) and (VI) of clause (ii) shall be addressed.
(C)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this paragraph, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(i)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(ii)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
1287.
Improved coordination of United States sanctions policy
(a)
Office of Sanctions Coordination of the Department of State
(1)
In general
Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2651a
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(B)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
(g)
Office of Sanctions Coordination
(1)
In general
There is established, within the Department of State, an Office of Sanctions Coordination (in this subsection referred to as the
Office
).
(2)
Head
The head of the Office shall—
(A)
have the rank and status of ambassador;
(B)
be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
(C)
report directly to the Secretary.
(3)
Duties
The head of the Office shall—
(A)
exercise sanctions authorities delegated to the Secretary;
(B)
serve as the principal advisor to the senior management of the Department and the Secretary regarding the development and implementation of sanctions policy;
(C)
serve as the lead representative of the United States in diplomatic engagement on sanctions matters;
(D)
consult and closely coordinate with allies and partners of the United States, including the United Kingdom, the European Union and member countries of the European Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and South Korea, to ensure the maximum effectiveness of sanctions imposed by the United States and such allies and partners;
(E)
serve as the coordinator for the development and implementation of sanctions policy with respect to all activities, policies, and programs of all bureaus and offices of the Department relating to the development and implementation of sanctions policy; and
(F)
serve as the lead representative of the Department in interagency discussions with respect to the development and implementation of sanctions policy.
(4)
Direct hire authority
The head of the Office may appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States Code, candidates directly to positions in the competitive service, as defined in section 2102 of that title, in the Office.
.
(2)
Briefing required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until the date that is 2 years after such date of enactment, the Secretary of State shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on the efforts of the Department of State to establish the Office of Sanctions Coordination pursuant to section 1(g) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by paragraph (1), including a description of—
(A)
measures taken to implement the requirements of that section and to establish the Office;
(B)
actions taken by the Office to carry out the duties listed in paragraph (3) of that section;
(C)
the resources devoted to the Office, including the number of employees working in the Office; and
(D)
plans for the use of the direct hire authority provided under paragraph (4) of that section.
(b)
Coordination with allies and partners of the United States
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State shall develop and implement mechanisms and programs, as appropriate, through the head of the Office of Sanctions Coordination established pursuant to section 1(g) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by subsection (a)(1), to coordinate the development and implementation of United States sanctions policies with allies and partners of the United States, including the United Kingdom, the European Union and member countries of the European Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and South Korea.
(2)
Information sharing
The Secretary should pursue the development and implementation of mechanisms and programs under paragraph (1), as appropriate, that involve the sharing of information with respect to policy development and sanctions implementation.
(3)
Capacity building
The Secretary should pursue efforts, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and the head of any other agency the Secretary considers appropriate, to assist allies and partners of the United States, including the countries specified in paragraph (1), as appropriate, in the development of their legal and technical capacities to develop and implement sanctions authorities.
(4)
Exchange programs
In furtherance of the efforts described in paragraph (3), the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and the head of any other agency the Secretary considers appropriate, may enter into agreements with counterpart agencies in foreign governments establishing exchange programs for the temporary detail of government employees to share information and expertise with respect to the development and implementation of sanctions authorities.
(5)
Briefing required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the date that is 5 years after such date of enactment, the Secretary of State shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on the efforts of the Department of State to implement this section, including a description of—
(A)
measures taken to implement paragraph (1);
(B)
actions taken pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4);
(C)
the extent of coordination between the United States and allies and partners of the United States, including the countries specified in paragraph (1), with respect to the development and implementation of sanctions policy; and
(D)
obstacles preventing closer coordination between the United States and such allies and partners with respect to the development and implementation of sanctions policy.
(c)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that the President should appoint a coordinator for sanctions and national economic security issues within the framework of the National Security Council.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Way and Means of the House of Representatives.
H
Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act
1291.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act
.
1292.
Assistance for United States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad
(a)
Review
The Secretary of State shall review the cases of United States nationals detained abroad to determine if there is credible information that they are being detained unlawfully or wrongfully, based on criteria which may include whether—
(1)
United States officials receive or possess credible information indicating innocence of the detained individual;
(2)
the individual is being detained solely or substantially because he or she is a United States national;
(3)
the individual is being detained solely or substantially to influence United States Government policy or to secure economic or political concessions from the United States Government;
(4)
the detention appears to be because the individual sought to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote freedom of the press, freedom of religion, or the right to peacefully assemble;
(5)
the individual is being detained in violation of the laws of the detaining country;
(6)
independent nongovernmental organizations or journalists have raised legitimate questions about the innocence of the detained individual;
(7)
the United States mission in the country where the individual is being detained has received credible reports that the detention is a pretext for an illegitimate purpose;
(8)
the individual is detained in a country where the Department of State has determined in its annual human rights reports that the judicial system is not independent or impartial, is susceptible to corruption, or is incapable of rendering just verdicts;
(9)
the individual is being detained in inhumane conditions;
(10)
due process of law has been sufficiently impaired so as to render the detention arbitrary; and
(11)
United States diplomatic engagement is likely necessary to secure the release of the detained individual.
(b)
Referrals to the special envoy
Upon a determination by the Secretary of State, based on the totality of the circumstances, that there is credible information that the detention of a United States national abroad is unlawful or wrongful, and regardless of whether the detention is by a foreign government or a nongovernmental actor, the Secretary shall transfer responsibility for such case from the Bureau of Consular Affairs of the Department of State to the Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs created pursuant to section 1293.
(c)
Report
(1)
Annual report
(A)
In general
The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report with respect to United States nationals for whom the Secretary determines there is credible information of unlawful or wrongful detention abroad.
(B)
Form
The report required under this paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if necessary.
(2)
Composition
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include current estimates of the number of individuals so detained, as well as relevant information about particular cases, such as—
(A)
the name of the individual, unless the provision of such information is inconsistent with section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the
Privacy Act of 1974
);
(B)
basic facts about the case;
(C)
a summary of the information that such individual may be detained unlawfully or wrongfully;
(D)
a description of specific efforts, legal and diplomatic, taken on behalf of the individual since the last reporting period, including a description of accomplishments and setbacks; and
(E)
a description of intended next steps.
(d)
Resource guidance
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and after consulting with relevant organizations that advocate on behalf of United States nationals detained abroad and the Family Engagement Coordinator established pursuant to section 1294(c)(2), the Secretary of State shall provide resource guidance in writing for government officials and families of unjustly or wrongfully detained individuals.
(2)
Content
The resource guidance required under paragraph (1) should include—
(A)
information to help families understand United States policy concerning the release of United States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully held abroad;
(B)
contact information for officials in the Department of State or other government agencies suited to answer family questions;
(C)
relevant information about options available to help families obtain the release of unjustly or wrongfully detained individuals, such as guidance on how families may engage with United States diplomatic and consular channels to ensure prompt and regular access for the detained individual to legal counsel, family members, humane treatment, and other services;
(D)
guidance on submitting public or private letters from members of Congress or other individuals who may be influential in securing the release of an individual; and
(E)
appropriate points of contacts, such as legal resources and counseling services, who have a record of assisting victims’ families.
1293.
Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs
(a)
Establishment
There shall be a Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs, appointed by the President, who shall report to the Secretary of State.
(b)
Rank
The Special Envoy shall have the rank and status of ambassador.
(c)
Responsibilities
The Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs shall—
(1)
lead diplomatic engagement on United States hostage policy;
(2)
coordinate all diplomatic engagements and strategy in support of hostage recovery efforts, in coordination with the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell and consistent with policy guidance communicated through the Hostage Response Group;
(3)
in coordination with the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell as appropriate, coordinate diplomatic engagements regarding cases in which a foreign government has detained a United States national and the United States Government regards such detention as unlawful or wrongful;
(4)
provide senior representation from the Special Envoy’s office to the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell established under section 1294 and the Hostage Response Group established under section 1295; and
(5)
ensure that families of United States nationals unlawfully or wrongly detained abroad receive updated information about developments in cases and government policy.
1294.
Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell
(a)
Establishment
The President shall establish an interagency Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell.
(b)
Participation
The President shall direct the heads of each of the following executive departments, agencies, and offices to make available personnel to participate in the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell:
(1)
The Department of State.
(2)
The Department of the Treasury.
(3)
The Department of Defense.
(4)
The Department of Justice.
(5)
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
(6)
The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(7)
The Central Intelligence Agency.
(8)
Other agencies as the President, from time to time, may designate.
(c)
Personnel
The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall include—
(1)
a Director, who shall be a full-time senior officer or employee of the United States Government;
(2)
a Family Engagement Coordinator who shall—
(A)
work to ensure that all interactions by executive branch officials with a hostage’s family occur in a coordinated fashion and that the family receives consistent and accurate information from the United States Government; and
(B)
if directed, perform the same function as set out in subparagraph (A) with regard to the family of a United States national who is unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad; and
(3)
other officers and employees as deemed appropriate by the President.
(d)
Duties
The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall—
(1)
coordinate efforts by participating agencies to ensure that all relevant information, expertise, and resources are brought to bear to secure the safe recovery of United States nationals held hostage abroad;
(2)
if directed, coordinate the United States Government's response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which the United States has a national interest;
(3)
if directed, coordinate or assist the United States Government’s response to help secure the release of United States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad; and
(4)
pursuant to policy guidance coordinated through the National Security Council—
(A)
identify and recommend hostage recovery options and strategies to the President through the National Security Council or the Deputies Committee of the National Security Council;
(B)
coordinate efforts by participating agencies to ensure that information regarding hostage events, including potential recovery options and engagements with families and external actors (including foreign governments), is appropriately shared within the United States Government to facilitate a coordinated response to a hostage-taking;
(C)
assess and track all hostage-takings of United States nationals abroad and provide regular reports to the President and Congress on the status of such cases and any measures being taken toward the hostages' safe recovery;
(D)
provide a forum for intelligence sharing and, with the support of the Director of National Intelligence, coordinate the declassification of relevant information;
(E)
coordinate efforts by participating agencies to provide appropriate support and assistance to hostages and their families in a coordinated and consistent manner and to provide families with timely information regarding significant events in their cases;
(F)
make recommendations to agencies in order to reduce the likelihood of United States nationals’ being taken hostage abroad and enhance United States Government preparation to maximize the probability of a favorable outcome following a hostage-taking; and
(G)
coordinate with agencies regarding congressional, media, and other public inquiries pertaining to hostage events.
(e)
Administration
The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall be located within the Federal Bureau of Investigation for administrative purposes.
1295.
Hostage Response Group
(a)
Establishment
The President shall establish a Hostage Response Group, chaired by a designated member of the National Security Council or the Deputies Committee of the National Security Council, to be convened on a regular basis, to further the safe recovery of United States nationals held hostage abroad or unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad, and to be tasked with coordinating the United States Government response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which the United States has a national interest.
(b)
Membership
The regular members of the Hostage Response Group shall include the Director of the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell's Family Engagement Coordinator, the Special Envoy appointed pursuant to section 1293, and representatives from the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, and other agencies as the President, from time to time, may designate.
(c)
Duties
The Hostage Recovery Group shall—
(1)
identify and recommend hostage recovery options and strategies to the President through the National Security Council;
(2)
coordinate the development and implementation of United States hostage recovery policies, strategies, and procedures;
(3)
receive regular updates from the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell and the Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs on the status of United States nationals being held hostage or unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad and measures being taken to effect safe recoveries;
(4)
coordinate the provision of policy guidance to the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, including reviewing recovery options proposed by the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell and working to resolve disputes within the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell;
(5)
as appropriate, direct the use of resources at the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell to coordinate or assist in the safe recovery of United States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad; and
(6)
as appropriate, direct the use of resources at the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell to coordinate the United States Government response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which the United States has a national interest.
(d)
Meetings
The Hostage Response Group shall meet regularly.
(e)
Reporting
The Hostage Response Group shall regularly provide recommendations on hostage recovery options and strategies to the National Security Council.
1296.
Authorization of imposition of sanctions
(a)
In general
The President may impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President determines, based on credible evidence—
(1)
is responsible for or is complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the hostage-taking of a United States national abroad or the unlawful or wrongful detention of a United States national abroad; or
(2)
knowingly provides financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, an activity described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole
(A)
Visas, admission, or parole
An alien described in subsection (a) may be—
(i)
inadmissible to the United States;
(ii)
ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and
(iii)
otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.).
(B)
Current visas revoked
(i)
In general
An alien described in subsection (a) may be subject to revocation of any visa or other entry documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is or was issued.
(ii)
Immediate effect
A revocation under clause (i) may—
(I)
take effect immediately; and
(II)
cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the alien’s possession.
(2)
Blocking of property
(A)
In general
The President may exercise all of the powers granted to the President under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.), to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of a foreign person described in subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(B)
Inapplicability of national emergency requirement
The requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701
) shall not apply for purposes of this section.
(c)
Exceptions
(1)
Exception for intelligence activities
Sanctions under this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.) or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(2)
Exception to comply with international obligations and for law enforcement activities
Sanctions under subsection (b)(1) shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or paroling the alien into the United States is necessary—
(A)
to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable international obligations; or
(B)
to carry out or assist law enforcement activity in the United States.
(d)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (b)(2) or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
(e)
Termination of sanctions
The President may terminate the application of sanctions under this section with respect to a person if the President determines that—
(1)
information exists that the person did not engage in the activity for which sanctions were imposed;
(2)
the person has been prosecuted appropriately for the activity for which sanctions were imposed;
(3)
the person has credibly demonstrated a significant change in behavior, has paid an appropriate consequence for the activity for which sanctions were imposed, and has credibly committed to not engage in an activity described in subsection (a) in the future; or
(4)
the termination of the sanctions is in the national security interests of the United States.
(f)
Reporting requirement
If the President terminates sanctions pursuant to subsection (d), the President shall report to the appropriate congressional committees a written justification for such termination within 15 days.
(g)
Implementation of regulatory authority
The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(h)
Exception relating to importation of goods
(1)
In general
The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions authorized under this subtitle shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
(2)
Good defined
In this paragraph, the term
good
means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
(i)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Foreign person
The term
foreign person
means—
(A)
any citizen or national of a foreign country (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States); or
(B)
any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States.
(2)
United States person
The term
United States person
means—
(A)
an individual who is a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
(B)
an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
(C)
any person in the United States.
1297.
Definitions
In this subtitle:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
United States national
The term
United States national
means—
(A)
a United States national as defined in section 101(a)(22) or section 308 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)
,
8 U.S.C. 1408
); and
(B)
a lawful permanent resident alien with significant ties to the United States.
1298.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to authorize a private right of action.
XIII
COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
1301.
Funding allocations for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program
(a)
In general
Of the $288,490,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 in section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (
50 U.S.C. 3711
), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes specified:
(1)
For strategic offensive arms elimination, $2,924,000.
(2)
For chemical security and elimination, $11,806,000.
(3)
For global nuclear security, $20,152,000.
(4)
For biological threat reduction, $177,396,000.
(5)
For proliferation prevention, $52,064,000.
(6)
For activities designated as Other Assessments/Administrative Costs, $24,148,000.
(b)
Availability of funds
Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023.
XIV
Other Authorizations
A
Military Programs
1401.
Working capital funds
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1402.
Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense
(a)
Authorization
of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
(b)
Use
Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) are authorized for—
(1)
the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (
50 U.S.C. 1521
); and
(2)
the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
1403.
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1404.
Defense
Inspector General
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
1405.
Defense Health Program
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of eligible beneficiaries.
B
Armed Forces Retirement Home
1411.
Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
1412.
Periodic inspections of Armed Forces Retirement Home facilities by nationally recognized accrediting organization
(a)
In general
Section 1518 of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (
24 U.S.C. 418
) is amended to read as follows:
1518.
Periodic inspection of Retirement Home facilities
(a)
Inspections
The Chief Operating Officer shall request the inspection of each facility of the Retirement Home by a nationally recognized civilian accrediting organization in accordance with section 1511(g) on a frequency consistent with the standards of such organization.
(b)
Availability of staff and records
The Chief Operating Officer and the Administrator of a facility being inspected under this section shall make all staff, other personnel, and records of the facility available to the civilian accrediting organization in a timely manner for purposes of inspections under this section.
(c)
Reports
Not later than 60 days after receiving a report on an inspection from the civilian accrediting organization under this section, the Chief Operating Officer shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Senior Medical Advisor, and the Advisory Council a report containing—
(1)
the results of the inspection; and
(2)
a plan to address any recommendations and other matters set forth in the report.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
The Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (
24 U.S.C. 401
et seq.) is further amended as follows:
(1)
In section 1513A(c)(2) (
24 U.S.C. 413a(c)(2)
), by striking
(including requirements identified in applicable reports of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense)
.
(2)
In section 1516(b)(3) (
24 U.S.C. 416(b)(3)
)—
(A)
by striking
shall—
and all that follows through
provide for
and inserting
shall provide for
;
(B)
by striking
; and
and inserting a period; and
(C)
by striking subparagraph (B).
(3)
In section 1517(e)(2) (
24 U.S.C. 417(e)(2)
), by striking
the Inspector General of the Department of Defense,
.
1413.
Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Forces Retirement Home
(a)
Expansion of eligibility
Section 1512(a) of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (
24 U.S.C. 412(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
active
in the first sentence;
(2)
in paragraph (1), by striking
are 60 years of age or over and
; and
(3)
by adding the following new paragraph:
(5)
Persons who are eligible for retired pay under
chapter 1223
of title 10, United States Code, and—
(A)
are eligible for care under section 1710 of title 38, United States Code;
(B)
are enrolled in coverage under
chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code; or
(C)
are enrolled in a qualified health plan acceptable to the Chief Operating Officer.
.
(b)
Parity of fees and deductions
Section 1514(c) of such Act (
24 U.S.C. 414(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph (2)
(2)
(A)
The fee shall be fixed as a percentage of the monthly income and monthly payments (including Federal payments) received by a resident. The percentage shall be the same for each facility of the Retirement Home. The Secretary of Defense may make any adjustment in a percentage that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(B)
The calculation of monthly income and monthly payments under subparagraph (A) for a resident eligible under section 1512(a)(5) shall not be less than the retirement pay for equivalent active duty service as determined by the Chief Operating Officer, except as the Chief Operating Officer may provide because of compelling personal circumstances.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
The Administrator of each facility of the Retirement Home may collect a fee upon admission from a resident accepted under section 1512(a)(5) equal to the deductions then in effect under section 1007(i)(1) of title 37, United States Code, for each year of non-regular service, and shall deposit such fee in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund.
.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 1007(i)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking
Armed Forces Retirement Home Board
and inserting
Chief Operating Officer of the Armed Forces Retirement Home
.
C
Other Matters
1421.
Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, Illinois
(a)
Authority for transfer of funds
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health Program for operation and maintenance, $130,400,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (
Public Law 111–84
; 123 Stat. 2571).
(b)
Treatment of transferred funds
For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds transferred under subsection (a) shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
(c)
Use of transferred funds
For purposes of subsection (b) of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
; 122 Stat. 4500).
XV
Authorization of additional appropriations for Overseas contingency operations
A
Authorization of appropriations
1501.
Purpose
The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 to provide additional funds for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed Forces.
1502.
Overseas contingency operations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (
2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)
).
1503.
Procurement
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4102.
1504.
Research, development, test, and evaluation
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4202.
1505.
Operation and maintenance
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 4302.
1506.
Military personnel
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.
1507.
Working capital funds
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1508.
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1509.
Defense Inspector General
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
1510.
Defense Health Program
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
B
Financial Matters
1521.
Treatment as additional authorizations
The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this Act.
1522.
Special transfer authority
(a)
Authority To transfer authorizations
(1)
Authority
Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2021 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
(2)
Limitation
The total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may not exceed $2,000,000,000.
(b)
Terms and conditions
Transfers under this section shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 1001.
(c)
Additional authority
The transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 1001.
C
Other matters
1531.
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund
(a)
Extension of availability of funds for security of Afghan women
Subsection (c)(1) of section 1520 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
.
(b)
Assessment of Afghanistan progress on objectives
Subsection (d) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
June 1, 2020
and inserting
March 1, 2021
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
; and
and inserting
, including specific milestones achieved since the date on which the 2020 progress report was submitted;
;
(C)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
the efforts of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to fulfill the commitments of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan under the Joint Declaration between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the United States of America for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan, issued on February 29, 2020.
;
(2)
by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
(2)
Matters to be included
In conducting the assessment required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall include each of the following:
(A)
The progress made by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan toward increased accountability and the reduction of corruption within the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
(B)
The extent to which the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has designated the appropriate staff, prioritized the development of relevant processes, and provided or requested the allocation of resources necessary to support a peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan.
(C)
The extent to which the capability and capacity of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have improved as a result of Afghanistan Security Forces Fund investment, including through training, and an articulation of the metrics used to assess such improvements.
(D)
The extent to which the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have been successful in—
(i)
defending territory, re-taking territory, and disrupting attacks;
(ii)
reducing the use of Afghan National Defense and Security Forces checkpoints; and
(iii)
curtailing the use of Afghan Special Security Forces for missions that are better suited to general purpose forces.
(E)
The distribution practices of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces and whether the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry supplied by the United States are appropriately distributed to, and employed by, security forces.
(F)
The progress made with respect to the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces.
(G)
The extent to which the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is adhering to conditions for receiving assistance established in annual financial commitment letters or any other bilateral agreement with the United States.
(H)
Such other factors as the Secretaries consider appropriate.
; and
(3)
by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
(4)
Withholding of funds for insufficient progress
(A)
Certification
Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and pursuant to the assessment under paragraph (1), shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification indicating whether the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has made sufficient progress in the areas described in paragraph (2).
(B)
Withholding of funds
If the Secretary of Defense is unable under subparagraph (A) to certify that the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is making sufficient progress in the areas described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall—
(i)
withhold from expenditure and obligation an amount that is not less than 5 percent and not more than 15 percent of the amounts made available for assistance for the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces for fiscal year 2021 until the date on which the Secretary is able to so certify; and
(ii)
notify the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days before withholding such funds and indicate the specific areas of insufficient progress.
(C)
Waiver
If the Secretary of Defense determines that withholding such funds would impede the national security objectives of the United States by prohibiting, restricting, delaying, or otherwise limiting the provision of assistance to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces for fiscal year 2021, the Secretary may waive the withholding requirement under subparagraph (B) if the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies such determination to the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days before the effective date of the waiver.
.
(c)
Additional reporting requirements
Subsection (e) of such section is amended—
(1)
in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
fiscal year 2021
and inserting
fiscal year 2022
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), by striking
fiscal year 2019
and inserting
fiscal year 2020
;
(3)
in paragraph (2), by striking
fiscal year 2020
and inserting
fiscal year 2021
; and
(4)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
If the amounts described in paragraph (2) exceed the amount described in paragraph (1)—
(A)
an explanation as to why such amounts are greater; and
(B)
a detailed description of the specific entities and purposes that were supported by such increase.
.
(d)
Conforming amendment
Such section is further amended by striking
Government of Afghanistan
each place it appears and inserting
Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
.
1532.
Transition and enhancement of inspector general authorities for Afghanistan reconstruction
(a)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate to commend the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, and the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, for—
(1)
dedicated and faithful service to the United States since their establishment in the 2008; and
(2)
promoting substantial efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of programs and operations funded with amounts for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
(b)
Purposes
Subsection (a) of section 1229 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (5 U.S.C. app. 8G note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (3), by inserting after
To provide for
the following:
the transition to the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to
section 8L(d)
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. app. 8L(d)) of all duties, responsibilities, and authorities for serving
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
To maximize coordination between the Inspector General under this section and the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel, including through transparency and timely sharing of data and information collected in relation to the exercise of their respective duties, responsibilities, and authorities, with emphasis on matters of significant overlap between the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development, and the Department of Defense.
.
(c)
Assistant Inspector General for Auditing
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended by striking
supported by
and inserting
funded with
.
(d)
Supervision
Subsection (e)(2) of such section is amended by inserting
authorized by this section
after
any audit or investigation
.
(e)
Duties
Subsection (f) of such section is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (E), by adding
and
at the end;
(B)
by striking subparagraph (F);
(C)
by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (F); and
(D)
in subparagraph (F), as redesignated by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph—
(i)
by inserting
with such funds
after
overpayments,
; and
(ii)
by inserting
regarding such funds,
after
or affiliated entities
;
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by striking
The Inspector General
and inserting
As specified in this section, the Inspector General
; and
(B)
by striking
as the Inspector General considers appropriate
and inserting
as necessary
; and
(3)
by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following new paragraph (4):
(4)
Scope of duties and responsibilities
(A)
No extension to particular matters
The duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General under paragraphs (1) through (3) shall not extend to the following:
(i)
Military operations or activities (including security assistance or cooperation), unless such operations or activities are funded using a Fund or account specified in subsection (n)(1).
(ii)
Contracts for personal security.
(B)
Assignment of duties and responsibilities for such matters
Duties and responsibilities of inspectors general with respect to operations and activities and contracts specified in subparagraph (A) shall be discharged by the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978.
.
(f)
Responsibility for coordination of efforts vested in lead IG for Operation Freedom's Sentinel
Such section is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (g) through (o) as subsections (h) through (p), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection (g):
(g)
Coordination and deconfliction of efforts
(1)
Coordination and deconfliction through lead IG for Operation Freedom's Sentinel
The lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to
section 8L(d)
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 shall exercise all duties, responsibilities, and authorities for the coordination and deconfliction of inspector general activities in or in regard to Afghanistan.
(2)
Coordination in discharge
In carrying out duties, responsibilities, and authorities under paragraph (1), the lead Inspector General referred to in that paragraph shall coordinate with, receive the cooperation of, and be responsible for deconfliction among, the following:
(A)
Each Inspector General specified in
section 8L(c)
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 who is not the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel.
(B)
The Inspector General under this section.
.
(g)
Assistance from Federal agencies
Subsection (i) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting
pertaining to the exercise by the Inspector General of duties, responsibilities, or authorities specified in subsection (f)
after
information and assistance
; and
(2)
by striking paragraph (6).
(h)
Reports
Subsection (j) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking the matter preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting the following new matter:
(1)
Semi-annual reports
Not later than 30 days after the end of the second quarter of each fiscal year, and not later than 30 days after the end of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, the Inspector General shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report setting forth a summary, for the two fiscal year quarters ending before the date on which such report is required to be submitted, of the activities of the Inspector General and the activities under programs and operations funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Each report shall include, for the period covered by such report, the following:
;
(B)
by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following new subparagraph (A):
(A)
A detailed statement of all obligations and expenditures of amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
;
(C)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
projects and programs funded by amounts appropriated or otherwise made available
after
costs incurred to date for
; and
(D)
in subparagraphs (C) and (D), by striking
funded by any department or agency of the United States Government
each place it appears and inserting
funded by amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
that involves the use
and all that follows and inserting
that is funded by amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
.
(i)
Report coordination
Subsection (k) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by inserting
by Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel
after
Report coordination
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), by striking
and the Secretary of Defense
and inserting
, the Secretary of Defense, and the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978
; and
(3)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or the Secretary of Defense
each place it appears and inserting
, the Secretary of Defense, or the lead Inspector General referred to in paragraph (1)
.
(j)
Funds subject to oversight responsibility
Paragraph (1) of subsection (n) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended to read as follows:
(1)
Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan
The term
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan
means amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the reconstruction of Afghanistan under either of the following:
(A)
The Economic Support Fund.
(B)
The International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement account.
(C)
The Commanders Emergency Response Program Fund.
(D)
The NATO Afghanistan National Army Trust Fund.
(E)
The Drug Interdiction and Counter Drug Activities Fund.
(F)
The Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
.
(k)
Termination
Subsection (p) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs.
(2)
Assumption of duties, responsibilities, and authorities in termination
(A)
In general
Effective as of the date provided for in subparagraph (B), the duties, responsibilities, and authorities of the Inspector General under this section shall be discharged by the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to subsection (d) of section 8L of the Inspector General Act of 1978.
(B)
Effective date
The effective date provided for in this subparagraph shall be such date after the date of the termination of the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction pursuant to paragraph (1) as the Chair of the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency under subsection (a) of
section 8L
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 shall specify, which date may not be more than 180 days after the date of such termination.
(3)
Final report
The final report of the Inspector General under this section shall consist of the semi-annual report required by subsection (j)(1) for the last two fiscal year quarters ending before the date of the termination of the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction pursuant to paragraph (1).
.
(l)
Conforming and technical amendments
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), such section is further amended as follows:
(A)
In subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting a comma after
economy
.
(B)
Subsection (a)(3) is amended to read as such subsection read as of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(C)
Paragraph (4) of subsection (a) is repealed.
(D)
In subsection (f)(1)(E), by striking
fund
and inserting
funds
.
(E)
In subsections (l) and (m), as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section—
(i)
by striking
subsection (i)
each place it appears and inserting
subsection (j)
; and
(ii)
by striking
subsection (j)(2)
each place it appears and inserting
subsection (k)(2)
.
(2)
Effective dates
The amendments made by subparagraphs (A), (D) and (E) of paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act. The amendment made by subparagraphs (B) and (C) of that paragraph shall take effect on the effective date provided for in section 1229(p)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) and amended by subsection (k).
(m)
Conforming amendment to other law
Section 842(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (
Public Law 110–181
; 122 Stat. 234;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
The Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
Upon the assumption by the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to
section 8L(d)
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 8L(d)) of duties, responsibilities, and authorities under section 1229 of this Act, as provided for in subsection (p)(2) of such section 1229, the requirement in paragraph (1) to perform audits as required by subsection (a) with respect to Afghanistan shall be discharged by such lead Inspector General.
.
XVI
Strategic programs, cyber, and intelligence matters
A
Space activities
1601.
Resilient and survivable positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities
(a)
In general
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, consistent with the timescale applicable to joint urgent operational needs statements, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
prioritize and rank order the mission elements, platforms, and weapons systems most critical for the operational plans of the combatant commands;
(2)
mature, test, and produce for such prioritized mission elements sufficient equipment—
(A)
to generate resilient and survivable alternative positioning, navigation, and timing signals; and
(B)
to process resilient survivable data provided by signals of opportunity and on-board sensor systems; and
(3)
integrate and deploy such equipment into the prioritized operational systems, platforms, and weapons systems.
(b)
Plan
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to commence carrying out subsection (a) in fiscal year 2021.
(2)
Reprogramming and budget proposals
The plan submitted under paragraph (1) may include any reprogramming or supplemental budget request the Secretary considers necessary to carry out subsection (a).
(c)
Coordination
In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the National Security Council, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Transportation, and the head of any other relevant Federal department or agency to enable civilian and commercial adoption of technologies and capabilities for resilient and survivable alternative positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities to complement the global positioning system.
1602.
Development efforts for National Security Space Launch providers
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the Air Force shall establish a program to develop technologies and systems to enhance phase three National Security Space Launch requirements and enable further advances in launch capability associated with the insertion of national security payloads into relevant classes of orbits.
(b)
Duration
The duration of a project to develop technologies and systems selected under the program shall be not more than three years.
(c)
Program expense ceiling
The total amount expended under the program shall not exceed $250,000,000.
(d)
Sunset
The program established under this section shall terminate on October 1, 2027.
1603.
Timeline for nonrecurring design validation for responsive space launch
Not later than 540 days after the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force selects two National Security Space Launch providers in accordance with the phase two acquisition strategy for the National Security Space Launch program, the Secretary of Defense shall complete the nonrecurring design validation of previously flown launch hardware for National Security Space Launch providers that offer such hardware for use in the phase two acquisition strategy or other national security space missions.
1604.
Tactically responsive space launch operations
The Secretary of the Air Force shall implement a tactically responsive space launch program—
(1)
to provide long-term continuity for tactically responsive space launch operations across the future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, United States Code;
(2)
to accelerate the development of—
(A)
responsive launch concepts of operations;
(B)
tactics;
(C)
training; and
(D)
procedures;
(3)
to develop appropriate processes for tactically responsive space launch, including—
(A)
mission assurance processes; and
(B)
command and control, tracking, telemetry, and communications; and
(4)
to identify basing capabilities necessary to enable tactically responsive space launch, including mobile launch range infrastructure.
1605.
Conforming amendments relating to reestablishment of Space Command
(a)
Certifications regarding integrated tactical warning and attack assessment mission of the Air Force
Section 1666(a) of National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 113 Stat. 2617) is amended by striking
Strategic Command
and inserting
Space Command
.
(b)
Council on oversight of the Department of Defense positioning, navigation, and timing enterprise
Section 2279b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10) as paragraphs (8), (9), (10), and (11), respectively; and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph (7):
(7)
The Commander of the United States Space Command.
; and
(2)
in subsection (f), by striking
Strategic Command
each place it appears and inserting
Space Command
.
(c)
Joint interagency combined space operations center
Section 605(e) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 115–31
; 131 Stat. 832) is amended—
(1)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Joint Interagency Combined Space Operations Center
and inserting
National Space Defense Center
; and
(2)
by striking
Strategic Command
each place it appears and inserting
Space Command
; and
(3)
by striking
Joint Interagency Combined Space Operations Center
each place it appears and inserting
National Space Defense Center
.
(d)
National security space satellite reporting policy
Section 2278(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
Strategic Command
and inserting
Space Command
.
(e)
Space-based infrared system and advanced extremely high frequency program
Section 1612(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2590) is amended by striking
Strategic Command
and inserting
Space Command
.
1606.
Space Development Agency development requirements and transfer to Space Force
(a)
Development
The Director of the Space Development Agency shall lead—
(1)
the development and demonstration of a resilient military space-based sensing, tracking, and data transport architecture that primarily uses a proliferated low-Earth orbit; and
(2)
the integration of next-generation space capabilities, and sensor and tracking components (including a hypersonic and ballistic missile-tracking space sensor payload), into such architecture to address the requirements and needs of the Armed Forces and combatant commands for such capabilities.
(b)
Organization
On October 1, 2022, or earlier if directed by the Secretary of Defense, the Space Development Agency shall be transferred from the Office of the Secretary of Defense to the United States Space Force and shall maintain the same organizational reporting requirements and acquisition authorities as the Space Rapid Capability Office.
1607.
Space launch rate assessment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter for the following five-year period, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees an assessment that includes—
(1)
the total number of space launches for all national security and Federal civil agency entities conducted in the United States during the preceding two-year period; and
(2)
the number of space launches by the same sponsors projected to occur during the following three-year period, including—
(A)
the number of launches, disaggregated by class of launch vehicle; and
(B)
the number of payloads, disaggregated by orbital destination.
1608.
Report on impact of acquisition strategy for the National Security Space Launch Program on emerging foreign space launch providers
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to Congress a report on the impact of the acquisition strategy for the National Security Space Launch program on the potential for foreign countries, including the People's Republic of China, to enter the global commercial space launch market.
1609.
Leveraging commercial satellite remote sensing
(a)
In general
In acquiring geospatial-intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, shall leverage, to the maximum extent practicable, the capabilities of United States industry, including through the use of commercial geospatial-intelligence services and acquisition of commercial satellite imagery.
(b)
Obtaining future geospatial-intelligence data
The Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, as part of an analysis of alternatives for the future acquisition of space systems for geospatial-intelligence, shall—
(1)
consider whether there is a suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability available that can meet any or all of the geospatial-intelligence requirements of the Department and the intelligence community;
(2)
if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability is available as described in paragraph (1), determine whether it is in the national interest to develop a governmental space system for geospatial intelligence; and
(3)
include, as part of the established acquisition reporting requirements to the appropriate committees of Congress, any determination made under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the congressional defense committees;
(B)
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(C)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
B
Cyberspace-Related Matters
1611.
Modification of position of Principal Cyber Advisor
(a)
In general
Subsection (c) of section 932 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note) is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Principal Cyber Advisor
(1)
Designation
The Secretary shall designate a Principal Cyber Advisor from among those civilian officials of the Department of Defense who have been appointed to the positions in which they serve by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(2)
Responsibilities
The Principal Cyber Advisor shall be responsible for the following:
(A)
Acting as the principal advisor to the Secretary on military cyber forces and activities.
(B)
Overall integration of Cyber Operations Forces activities relating to cyberspace operations, including associated policy and operational considerations, resources, personnel, technology development and transition, and acquisition.
(C)
Assessing and overseeing the implementation of the cyber strategy of the Department and execution of the cyber posture review of the Department on behalf of the Secretary.
(D)
Coordinating activities pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(3) with the Principal Information Operations Advisor, the Chief Information Officer of the Department, and other officials as determined by the Secretary of Defense, to ensure the integration of activities in support of cyber, information, and electromagnetic spectrum operations.
(E)
Such other matters relating to the offensive military cyber forces of the Department as the Secretary shall specify for the purposes of this subsection.
(3)
Cross-functional team
Consistent with section 911 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 111
note), the Principal Cyber Advisor shall—
(A)
integrate the cyber expertise and perspectives of appropriate organizations within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, military departments, the Defense Agencies and Field Activities, and combatant commands, by establishing and maintaining a full-time cross-functional team of subject matter experts from those organizations; and
(B)
select team members, and designate a team leader, from among those personnel nominated by the heads of such organizations.
.
(b)
Designation of Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor
Section 905(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy
and inserting
Secretary of Defense
.
1612.
Framework for cyber hunt forward operations
(a)
Framework required
Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a standard, comprehensive framework to enhance the consistency, execution, and effectiveness of cyber hunt forward operations.
(b)
Elements
The framework developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Identification of the selection criteria for proposed hunt forward operations, including specification of necessary thresholds for the justification of operations and thresholds for partner cooperation.
(2)
The roles and responsibilities of the following organizations in the support of the planning and execution of hunt forward operations:
(A)
United States Cyber Command.
(B)
Service cyber components.
(C)
The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
(D)
Geographic combatant commands.
(E)
Cyber Operations-Integrated Planning Elements and Joint Cyber Centers.
(F)
Embassies and consulates of the United States.
(3)
Pre-deployment planning guidelines to maximize the operational success of each unique operation, including guidance that takes into account the highly variable nature of the following aspects at the tactical level:
(A)
Team composition, including necessary skillsets, recommended training, and guidelines on team size and structure.
(B)
Relevant factors to determine mission duration in a country of interest.
(C)
Agreements with partner countries required pre-deployment.
(D)
Criteria for potential follow-on operations.
(E)
Equipment and infrastructure required to support the missions.
(4)
Metrics to measure the effectiveness of each operation, including means to evaluate the value of discovered malware and infrastructure, the effect on the adversary, and the potential for future engagements with the partner country.
(5)
Roles and responsibilities for United States Cyber Command and the National Security Agency in the analysis of relevant mission data.
(6)
Such other matters as the Secretary determines relevant.
(c)
Briefing
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on the framework developed pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Contents
The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An overview of the framework developed in subsection (a).
(B)
An explanation of the tradeoffs associated with the use of Department of Defense resources for hunt forward missions in the context of competing priorities.
(C)
Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for legislative action to improve the effectiveness of hunt forward missions.
1613.
Modification of scope of notification requirements for sensitive military cyber operations
Subsection (c) of section 395 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(c)
Sensitive Military Cyber Operation defined
(1)
In this section, the term
sensitive military cyber operation
means an action described in paragraph (2) that—
(A)
is carried out by the armed forces of the United States;
(B)
is intended to achieve a cyber effect against a foreign terrorist organization or a country, including its armed forces and the proxy forces of that country located elsewhere —
(i)
with which the armed forces of the United States are not involved in hostilities (as that term is used in section 4 of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1543
)); or
(ii)
with respect to which the involvement of the armed forces of the United States in hostilities has not been acknowledged publicly by the United States; and
(C)
(i)
is determined to—
(I)
have a medium or high collateral effects estimate;
(II)
have a medium or high intelligence gain or loss;
(III)
have a medium or high probability of political retaliation, as determined by the political military assessment contained within the associated concept of operations;
(IV)
have a medium or high probability of detection when detection is not intended; or
(V)
result in medium or high collateral effects; or
(ii)
is a matter the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(2)
The actions described in this paragraph are the following:
(A)
An offensive cyber operation.
(B)
A defensive cyber operation.
.
1614.
Modification of requirements for quarterly Department of Defense cyber operations briefings for Congress
Section 484 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following new subsections:
(a)
Briefings required
The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Commander of United States Cyber Command, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or designees from each of their offices, shall provide to the congressional defense committees quarterly briefings on all offensive and significant defensive military operations in cyberspace, including clandestine cyber activities, carried out by the Department of Defense during the immediately preceding quarter.
(b)
Elements
Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the military operations in cyberspace described in such subsection, the following:
(1)
An update, set forth separately for each applicable geographic and functional command, that describes the operations carried out in the area of operations of that command or by that command.
(2)
An update, set forth for each applicable geographic and functional command, that describes defensive cyber operations executed to protect or defend forces, networks, and equipment in the area of operations of that command.
(3)
An update on relevant authorities and legal issues applicable to operations, including any presidential directives and delegations of authority received since the last quarterly update.
(4)
An overview of critical operational challenges posed by major adversaries or encountered in operational activities conducted since the last quarterly update.
(5)
An overview of the readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces to perform assigned missions that—
(A)
addresses all of the abilities of such Forces to conduct cyberspace operations based on capability and capacity of personnel, equipment, training, and equipment condition—
(i)
using both quantitative and qualitative metrics; and
(ii)
in a way that is common to all military departments; and
(B)
is consistent with readiness reporting pursuant to section 482 of this title.
(6)
Any other matters that the briefers determine to be appropriate.
(c)
Documents
Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include a classified placemat, summarizing the elements specified in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (5) of subsection (b), and an unclassified memorandum, summarizing the briefing’s contents.
.
1615.
Rationalization and integration of parallel cybersecurity architectures and operations
(a)
Review required
The Commander of United States Cyber Command, with support from the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the Chief Data Officer of the Department, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation, shall conduct a review of the Cybersecurity Service Provider and Cyber Mission Force enterprises.
(b)
Assessment and identification of redundancies and gaps
The review required by subsection (a) shall assess and identify—
(1)
the optimal way to integrate the Joint Cyber Warfighting Architecture and the Cybersecurity Service Provider architectures, associated tools and capabilities, and associated concepts of operations;
(2)
redundancies and gaps in network sensor deployment and data collection and analysis for the—
(A)
Big Data Platform;
(B)
Joint Regional Security Stacks; and
(C)
Security Information and Event Management capabilities;
(3)
where integration, collaboration, and interoperability are not occurring that would improve outcomes;
(4)
baseline training, capabilities, competencies, operational responsibilities, and joint concepts of operations for the Joint Force Headquarters for the Department of Defense Information Network, Cybersecurity Service Providers, and Cyber Protection Teams;
(5)
the roles and responsibilities of the Principal Cyber Advisor, Chief Information Officer, and the Commander of United States Cyber Command in establishing and overseeing the baselines assessed and identified under paragraph (4);
(6)
the optimal command structure for the military services’ and combatant commands’ cybersecurity service providers and cyber protection teams;
(7)
the responsibilities of network owners and cybersecurity service providers in mapping, configuring, instrumenting, and deploying sensors on networks to best support response of cyber protection teams when assigned to defend unfamiliar networks; and
(8)
operational concepts and engineering changes to enhance remote access and operations of cyber protection teams on networks through tools and capabilities of the Cybersecurity Service Providers.
(c)
Recommendations for fiscal year 2023 budget
The Chief Information Officer, the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of United States Cyber Command, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly develop recommendations for the Secretary of Defense in preparation of the budget justification materials to be submitted to Congress in support of the budget for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2023 (as submitted with the budget of the President for such fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
(d)
Progress briefing
Not later than March 31, 2021, the Chief Information Officer, the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of United States Cyber Command, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the progress made in carrying out this section.
1616.
Modification of acquisition authority of Commander of United States Cyber Command
Section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsections (e) and (i); and
(2)
by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as subsections (e) through (g), respectively.
1617.
Assessment of cyber operational planning and deconfliction policies and processes
(a)
Assessment
Not later than November 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense and the Commander of United States Cyber Command shall jointly, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, conduct and complete an assessment on the operational planning and deconfliction policies and processes that govern cyber operations of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements
The assessment required by subsection (a) shall include evaluations as to whether—
(1)
the joint targeting cycle and relevant operational and targeting databases are suitable for the conduct of timely and well-coordinated cyber operations;
(2)
each of the policies and processes in effect to facilitate technical, operational, and capability deconfliction are appropriate for the conduct of timely and effective cyber operations;
(3)
intelligence gain-loss decisions made by Cyber Command are sufficiently well-informed and made in timely fashion;
(4)
relevant intelligence data and products are consistently available and distributed to relevant planning and operational elements in Cyber Command;
(5)
collection operations and priorities meet the operational requirements of Cyber Command; and
(6)
authorities relevant to intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance and operational preparation of the environment are delegated to the appropriate level.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than February 1, 2022, the Principal Cyber Advisor and the Commander of United States Cyber Command shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on the findings of the assessment completed under subsection (a), including discussion of planned policy and process changes, if any, relevant to cyber operations.
1618.
Pilot program on cybersecurity capability metrics
(a)
Pilot program required
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense and the Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall conduct a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of developing and using speed-based metrics to measure the performance and effectiveness of security operations centers and cyber security service providers in the Department of Defense.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Development of metrics
(A)
Not later than July 1, 2021, the Chief Information Officer and the Commander shall jointly develop metrics described in subsection (a) to carry out the pilot program under such subsection.
(B)
The Chief Information Officer and the Commander shall ensure that the metrics developed under subparagraph (A) are commensurate with the representative timelines of nation-state and non-nation-state actors when gaining access to, and compromising, Department networks.
(2)
Use of metrics
(A)
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary shall, in carrying out the pilot program required by subsection (a), begin using the metrics developed under paragraph (1) of this subsection to assess select security operations centers and cyber security service providers, which the Secretary shall select specifically for purposes of the pilot program, for a period of not less than four months.
(B)
In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall evaluate the effectiveness of operators, capabilities available to operators, and operators’ tactics, techniques, and procedures.
(c)
Authorities
In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary may—
(1)
assess select security operations centers and cyber security service providers—
(A)
over the course of their mission performance; or
(B)
in the testing and accreditation of cybersecurity products and services on test networks designated pursuant to section 1658 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
); and
(2)
assess select elements’ use of security orchestration and response technologies, modern endpoint security technologies, Big Data Platform instantiations, and technologies relevant to zero trust architectures.
(d)
Briefing
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2022, the Secretary shall brief the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on the findings of the Secretary with respect to the pilot program required by subsection (a).
(2)
Elements
The briefing provided under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
The pilot metrics developed under subsection (b)(1).
(B)
The findings of the Secretary with respect to the assessments carried out under subsection (b)(2).
(C)
An analysis of the utility of speed-based metrics in assessing security operations centers and cyber security service providers.
(D)
An analysis of the utility of the extension of the pilot metrics to or speed-based assessment of the Cyber Mission Forces.
(E)
An assessment of the technical and procedural measures that would be necessary to meet the speed-based metrics developed and applied in the pilot program.
1619.
Assessment of effect of inconsistent timing and use of Network Address Translation in Department of Defense networks
(a)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall conduct comprehensive assessments as follows:
(1)
Timing variability in Department networks
The Chief Information Officer shall characterize—
(A)
timing variability across Department information technology and operational technology networks, appliances, devices, applications, and sensors that generate time-stamped data and metadata used for cybersecurity purposes;
(B)
how timing variability affects current, planned, and potential capabilities for detecting network intrusions that rely on correlating events and the sequence of events; and
(C)
how to harmonize standard of timing across Department networks.
(2)
Use of Network Address Translation
The Chief Information Officer shall characterize—
(A)
why and how the Department is using Network Address Translation (NAT) and multiple layers and nesting of Network Address Translation;
(B)
how using Network Address Translation affects the ability to link malicious communications detected at various network tiers to specific endpoints or hosts to enable prompt additional investigations, quarantine decisions, and remediation activities; and
(C)
what steps and associated cost and schedule are necessary to eliminate the use of Network Address Translation or to otherwise provide transparency to network defenders, including options to accelerate the transition from Internet Protocol version 4 to Internet Protocol version 6.
(b)
Recommendation
The Chief Information Officer and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a recommendation to address the assessments conducted under subsection (a), including whether and how to revise the cyber strategy of the Department.
(c)
Briefing
Not later than April 1, 2021, the Chief Information Officer shall brief the congressional defense committees on the findings of the Chief Information Officer with respect to the assessments conducted under subsection (a) and the recommendation submitted under subsection (b).
1620.
Matters concerning the College of Information and Cyberspace at National Defense University
(a)
Prohibition
The Secretary of Defense may not eliminate, divest, downsize, or reorganize the College of Information and Cyberspace of the National Defense University, or seek to reduce the number of students educated at the College, until 30 days after the date on which the congressional defense committees receive the report required by subsection (c).
(b)
Assessment, determination, and review
The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Principal Information Operations Advisor of the Department of Defense, the Chief Information Officer of the Department, the Chief Financial Officer of the Department, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall—
(1)
assess requirements for joint professional military education and civilian leader education in the information environment and cyberspace domain to support the Department and other national security institutions of the Federal Government;
(2)
determine whether the importance, challenges, and complexity of the modern information environment and cyberspace domain warrant—
(A)
a college at the National Defense University, or a college independent of the National Defense University whose leadership is responsible to the Office of the Secretary of Defense; and
(B)
the provision of resources, services, and capacity at levels that are the same as, or decreased or enhanced in comparison to, those resources, services, and capacity in place at the College of Information and Cyberspace on January 1, 2019;
(3)
review the plan proposed by the National Defense University for eliminating the College of Information and Cyberspace and reducing and restructuring the information and cyberspace faculty, course offerings, joint professional military education and degree and certificate programs, and other services provided by the College; and
(4)
assess the changes made to the College of Information and Cyberspace since January 1, 2019, and the actions necessary to reverse those changes, including relocating the College and its associated budget, faculty, staff, students, and facilities outside of the National Defense University.
(c)
Report required
Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on—
(1)
the findings of the Secretary with respect to the assessments, determination, and review conducted under subsection (b); and
(2)
such recommendations as the Secretary may have for higher education in the information environment and cyberspace domain.
1621.
Modification of mission of cyber command and assignment of cyber operations forces
Section 167b of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in the first sentence, by inserting
(1)
before
With the advice
;
(B)
in paragraph (1), as designated by subparagraph (A), by striking the second sentence; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
The principal mission of the cyber command is to direct, synchronize, and coordinate cyber planning and operations to defend and advance national interests in collaboration with domestic and international partners.
; and
(2)
by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
(b)
Assignment of forces
(1)
Active and reserve cyber forces of the armed forces shall be assigned to the cyber command through the Global Force Management Process, as approved by the Secretary of Defense.
(2)
Cyber forces not assigned to cyber command remain assigned to combatant commands or service-retained.
.
1622.
Integration of Department of Defense user activity monitoring and cybersecurity
(a)
Integration of plans, capabilities, and systems
The Secretary of Defense shall integrate the plans, capabilities, and systems for user activity monitoring, and the plans, capabilities, and systems for endpoint cybersecurity and the collection of metadata on network activity for cybersecurity to enable mutual support and information sharing.
(b)
Requirements
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
consider using the Big Data Platform instances that host cybersecurity metadata for storage and analysis of all user activity monitoring data collected across the Department of Defense Information Network at all security classification levels;
(2)
develop policies and procedures governing access to user activity monitoring data or data derived from user activity monitoring by cybersecurity operators; and
(3)
develop processes and capabilities for using metadata on host and network activity for user activity monitoring in support of the insider threat mission.
(c)
Congressional briefing
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on actions taken to carry out this section.
1623.
Defense industrial base cybersecurity sensor architecture plan
(a)
Plan required
Not later than February 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense, in consultation with the Chief Information Officer of the Department, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, and the Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall develop a comprehensive plan for the deployment of commercial-off-the-shelf solutions on supplier networks to monitor the public-facing Internet attack surface in the defense industrial base.
(b)
Contents
The plan required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Definition of an architecture, concept of operations, and governance structure that—
(A)
will allow for the instrumentation and collection of cybersecurity data on the public-facing Internet attack surfaces of defense industrial base contractors in a manner that is compatible with the Department’s existing or future capabilities for analysis, and instrumentation and collection, as appropriate, of cybersecurity data within the Department of Defense Information Network;
(B)
includes the expected scale, schedule, and guiding principles of deployment;
(C)
is consistent with the defense industrial base cybersecurity policies and programs of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the Chief Information Officer; and
(D)
includes an acquisition strategy for sensor capabilities that optimizes required capability, scalability, cost, and intelligence and cybersecurity requirements.
(2)
Roles and responsibilities of the persons referred to in subsection (a) in implementing and executing the plan.
(c)
Consultation
In developing the plan required by subsection (a), the Principal Cyber Advisor shall ensure that extensive consultation with representative companies of the defense industrial base occurs so as to ensure that prospective participants in the defense industrial base understand and agree that emerging solutions are acceptable, practical, and effective.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on the plan developed pursuant to subsection (a).
1624.
Extension of Cyberspace Solarium Commission to track and assess implementation
Section 1652 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
), as amended by section 1639 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(1)(B)—
(A)
in clause (i), by striking
under clauses (iv) through (vii) of subparagraph (A)
and inserting
under clauses (v) through (viii) of subparagraph (A)
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(iv)
Effective on the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the composition of the Commission shall not include clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A).
;
(2)
in subsection (d)(2), by striking
Seven members shall
and inserting
Seven members, during the period beginning on the date of the establishment of the Commission and ending on the day before the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and six members, during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of such Act and ending on the date of the termination of the Commission, shall
;
(3)
in subsection (i)(1)(B)—
(A)
by striking
Members of the Commission who
inserting
(i) During the period beginning on the date of the establishment of the Commission and ending on the day before the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, members of the Commission who
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following new clause:
(ii)
During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of such Act and ending on the date of the termination of the Commission, members of the Commission who are Members of Congress shall receive no additional pay by reason of their service on the Commission.
; and
(4)
in subsection (k)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
120 day period
and inserting
16 month period with no further extensions permitted
;
(B)
by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
(B)
The Commission may use the 16 month period referred to in subparagraph (A) for the purposes of—
(i)
collecting and assessing comments and feedback from the Federal departments and agencies, as well as published reviews, on the analysis and recommendations contained in the final report under paragraph (1);
(ii)
collecting and assessing any developments in cybersecurity that may affect the recommendations in such report;
(iii)
reviewing the implementation of the recommendations contained in such report; and
(iv)
revising or amending recommendations based on the assessments and reviews conducted under clauses (i) through (iii);
(C)
During the 16 month period referred to in subparagraph (A), the Commission shall—
(i)
provide, in such manner and format as the Commission considers appropriate, an annual update on such report and any revisions or amendments reached by the Commission under subparagraph (B)(iv) to—
(I)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(II)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;
(III)
the Director of National Intelligence;
(IV)
the Secretary of Defense; and
(V)
the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
(ii)
conclude its activities, including providing testimony to Congress concerning the final report under paragraph (1) and disseminating such report.
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
In the event that the Commission is extended, and the effective date of the extension comes after the time set for the Commission’s termination, the Commission shall be deemed reconstituted with the same members and powers that existed at the time of termination of the Commission, except that—
(i)
a member of the Commission shall only serve if the member’s position continues to be authorized under subsection (b);
(ii)
no compensation or entitlements relating to a person’s status with the Commission shall be due for the period between the termination and reconstitution of the Commission;
(iii)
nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed as requiring the extension or reemployment of any staff member or contractor working for the Commission;
(iv)
the staff of the commission—
(I)
shall be selected by the co-chairs of the Commission in accordance with subsection (h)(1);
(II)
shall be comprised of not more than four individuals, including a staff director;
(III)
shall be resourced in accordance with subsection (g)(4)(A); and
(IV)
with the approval of the co-chairs, may be provided by contract with a nongovernmental organization;
(v)
any unexpended funds made available for the use of the Commission shall continue to be available for use for the life of the Commission, as well as any additional funds appropriated to the Department of Defense that are made available to the Commission, provided that the total such funds does not exceed $1,000,000 from the reconstitution of the Commission to the completion of the Commission; and
(vi)
the requirement for an annual assessment of the final report in subsection (l) shall be in effect until the termination of the Commission.
.
1625.
Review of regulations and promulgation of guidance relating to National Guard responses to cyber attacks
(a)
In general
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall—
(1)
review and, if the Secretary determines necessary, update regulations promulgated under section 903 of title 32, United States Code, to clarify when and under what conditions the participation of the National Guard in a response to a cyber attack qualifies as a homeland defense activity that would be compensated for by the Secretary of Defense under section 902 of such title; and
(2)
promulgate guidance on how units of the National Guard shall collaborate with the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation through multi-agency task forces, information-sharing groups, incident response planning and exercises, State fusion centers, and other relevant forums and activities.
(b)
Annex of National Cyber Incident Response Plan
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall develop an annex to the National Cyber Incident Response Plan that details those regulations and guidance reviewed, updated, and promulgated under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
1626.
Improvements relating to the quadrennial cyber posture review
Section 1644(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
), as amended by section 1635 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
(1)
The assessment and definition of the role of cyber forces in the national defense and military strategies of the United States.
;
(2)
by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
(2)
Review of the following:
(A)
The role of cyber operations in combatant commander warfighting plans.
(B)
The ability of combatant commanders to respond to adversary cyber attacks.
(C)
The cyber capacity-building programs of the Department.
;
(3)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
A review of the law, policies, and authorities relating to, and necessary for, the United States to maintain a safe, reliable, and credible cyber posture for defending against and responding to cyber attacks and for deterrence in cyberspace, including the following:
(A)
An assessment of the need for further delegation of cyber-related authorities, including those germane to information warfare, to the Commander of United States Cyber Command.
(B)
An evaluation of the adequacy of mission authorities for all cyber-related military components, defense agencies, directorates, centers, and commands.
;
(4)
in paragraph (4), by striking
A declaratory
and inserting
A review of the need for or for updates to a declaratory
;
(5)
in paragraph (5), by striking
Proposed
and inserting
A review of
;
(6)
by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:
(6)
A review of a strategy to deter, degrade, or defeat malicious cyber activity targeting the United States (which may include activities, capability development, and operations other than cyber activities, cyber capability development, and cyber operations), including—
(A)
a review and assessment of various approaches to competition and deterrence in cyberspace, determined in consultation with experts from Government, academia, and industry;
(B)
a comparison of the strengths and weaknesses of the approaches identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) relative to the threat of each other; and
(C)
an assessment as to how the cyber strategy will inform country-specific campaign plans focused on key leadership of Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, and any other country the Secretary considers appropriate.
;
(7)
by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the following new paragraph (8):
(8)
A comprehensive force structure assessment of the Cyber Operations Forces of the Department for the posture review period, including the following:
(A)
A determination of the appropriate size and composition of the Cyber Mission Forces to accomplish the mission requirements of the Department.
(B)
An assessment of the Cyber Mission Forces’ personnel, capabilities, equipment, funding, operational concepts, and ability to execute cyber operations in a timely fashion.
(C)
An assessment of the personnel, capabilities, equipment, funding, and operational concepts of Cybersecurity Service Providers and other elements of the Cyber Operations Forces.
;
(8)
by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (11) as subsections (12) through (15), respectively; and
(9)
by inserting after paragraph (8), the following new paragraphs:
(9)
An assessment of whether the Cyber Mission Force has the appropriate level of interoperability, integration, and interdependence with special operations and conventional forces.
(10)
An evaluation of the adequacy of mission authorities for the Joint Force Provider and Joint Force Trainer responsibilities of United States Cyber Command, including the adequacy of the units designated as Cyber Operations Forces to support such responsibilities.
(11)
An assessment of the missions and resourcing of the combat support agencies in support of cyber missions of the Department.
.
1627.
Report on enabling United States Cyber Command resource allocation
(a)
In general
Not later than January 15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing the actions the Secretary will undertake to implement clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 167b(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, including actions to ensure that the Commander of United States Cyber Command has enhanced authority, direction, and control of the Cyber Operations Forces and the equipment budget that enables Cyber Operations Forces' operations and readiness, beginning with the budget to be submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2024, and the budget justification materials for the Department of Defense to be submitted to Congress in support of such budget.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall address the following items:
(1)
The procedures by which the Principal Cyber Advisor (PCA) will exercise authority, direction, and oversight over the Commander of United States Cyber Command, with respect to Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar equipment and resources.
(2)
The procedures by which the Commander of United States Cyber Command will—
(A)
prepare and submit to the Secretary program recommendations and budget proposals for Cyber Operations Forces and for other forces assigned to the Cyber Command; and
(B)
exercise authority, direction, and control over the expenditure of funds for—
(i)
forces assigned to United States Cyber Command; and
(ii)
Cyber Operations Forces assigned to other unified combatant commands.
(3)
Recommendations for actions to enable the Commander of United States Cyber Command to execute the budget and acquisition responsibilities of the Commander in excess of currently imposed limits on the Cyber Operations Procurement Fund, including potential increases in personnel to support the Commander.
(4)
The procedures by which the Secretary will categorize and track funding obligated or expended for Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar equipment and capabilities.
(5)
The methodology and criteria by which the Secretary will characterize equipment as being Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar.
1628.
Evaluation of options for establishing a cyber reserve force
(a)
Evaluation required
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an evaluation of options for establishing a cyber reserve force.
(b)
Elements
The evaluation conducted under subsection (a) shall include assessment of the following:
(1)
The capabilities and deficiencies in military and civilian personnel with needed cybersecurity expertise, and the quantity of personnel with such expertise, within the Department.
(2)
The potential for a uniformed, civilian, or mixed cyber reserve force to remedy shortfalls in expertise and capacity.
(3)
The ability of the Department to attract the personnel with the desired expertise to either a uniformed or civilian cyber reserve force.
(4)
The number of personnel, the level of funding, and the composition of a cyber reserve force that would be required to meet the needs of the Department.
(5)
Alternative models for establishing a cyber reserve force, including the following:
(A)
A traditional uniformed military reserve component.
(B)
A nontraditional uniformed military reserve component, with respect to drilling and other requirements such as grooming and physical fitness.
(C)
Nontraditional civilian cyber reserve options.
(6)
The impact a uniformed military cyber reserve would have on active duty and existing reserve forces, including the following:
(A)
Recruiting.
(B)
Promotion.
(C)
Retention.
(7)
The effect a civilian cyber reserve would have on active duty and existing reserve forces, and the private sector.
(c)
Report
Not later than February 1, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection (a).
1629.
Ensuring cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system
(a)
Plan for implementation of findings and recommendations from first annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control system
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive plan, including a schedule and resourcing plan, for the implementation of the findings and recommendations included in the first report submitted under section 499(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
(b)
Concept of operations and oversight mechanism for cyber defense of nuclear command and control system
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall develop and establish—
(1)
a concept of operations for defending the nuclear command and control system against cyber attacks, including specification of the—
(A)
roles and responsibilities of relevant entities within the Office of the Secretary, the military services, combatant commands, the Defense Agencies, and the Department of Defense Field Activities; and
(B)
cybersecurity capabilities to be acquired and employed and operational tactics, techniques, and procedures, including cyber protection team and sensor deployment strategies, to be used to monitor, defend, and mitigate vulnerabilities in nuclear command and control systems; and
(2)
an oversight mechanism or governance model for overseeing the implementation of the concept of operations developed and established under paragraph (1), related development, systems engineering, and acquisition activities and programs, and the plan required by subsection (a), including specification of the—
(A)
roles and responsibilities of relevant entities within the Office of the Secretary, the military services, combatant commands, the Defense Agencies, and the Department of Defense Field Activities in overseeing the defense of the nuclear command and control system against cyber attacks;
(B)
responsibilities and authorities of the Strategic Cybersecurity Program in overseeing and, as appropriate, executing—
(i)
vulnerability assessments; and
(ii)
development, systems engineering, and acquisition activities; and
(C)
processes for coordination of activities, policies, and programs relating to the cybersecurity and defense of the nuclear command and control system.
1630.
Modification of requirements relating to the Strategic Cybersecurity Program and the evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department of Defense
(a)
Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department of Defense
(1)
In general
Section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
), as amended by section 1633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(i)
Establishing requirements for periodicity of vulnerability reviews
The Secretary of Defense shall establish policies and requirements for each major weapon system, and the priority critical infrastructure essential to the proper functioning of major weapon systems in broader mission areas, to be re-assessed for cyber vulnerabilities, taking into account upgrades or other modifications to systems and changes in the threat.
(j)
Identification of senior official
Each secretary of a military department shall identify a senior official who shall be responsible for ensuring that cyber vulnerability assessments and mitigations for weapon systems and critical infrastructure are planned, funded, and carried out.
.
(2)
Technical correction
Such section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 is further amended—
(A)
by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
(B)
by redesignating the second subsection (f), as added by section 1633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, as subsection (g).
(b)
Strategic Cybersecurity Program
Section 1640 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note), is amended by striking subsections (a) through (e) and inserting the following new subsections:
(a)
In general
Not later than August 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Director of the National Security Agency and in coordination with the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, establish a program to be known as the
Strategic Cybersecurity Program
(in this section referred to as the
Program
).
(b)
Elements
(1)
In general
The Program shall be comprised of personnel assigned to the Program by the Secretary from among personnel, including regular and reserve members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department of Defense (including the Defense intelligence agencies), and personnel of the research laboratories of the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy, who have particular expertise in the areas of responsibility described in subsection (c).
(2)
Department of Energy personnel
Any personnel assigned to the Program from among personnel of the Department of Energy shall be so assigned with the concurrence of the Secretary of Energy.
(3)
Program manager
The Secretary of Defense shall designate a manager for the Program (in this section referred to as the
Program manager
).
(c)
Responsibilities
(1)
In general
The Program manager and the personnel assigned to the Program shall improve the end-to-end cybersecurity of all of the systems, critical infrastructure, kill chains, and processes that make up the following military missions of the Department of Defense:
(A)
Nuclear deterrence and strike.
(B)
Select long-range conventional strike missions germane to the warfighting plans of United States European Command and United States Indo-Pacific Command.
(C)
Offensive cyber operations.
(D)
Homeland missile defense.
(2)
Assessing and remediating vulnerabilities in mission execution
In carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), the Program manager shall conduct end-to-end vulnerability assessments and undertake or oversee remediation of identified vulnerabilities in the systems and processes on which the successful execution of the missions delineated in paragraph (1) depend.
(3)
Acquisition and systems engineering review
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Program manager shall conduct appropriate reviews of acquisition and systems engineering plans for proposed systems and infrastructure. The review of an acquisition plan for any proposed system or infrastructure shall be carried out before Milestone B approval for such system or infrastructure.
(d)
Integration with other efforts
The Secretary shall ensure that the Program builds upon, and does not duplicate, other efforts of the Department of Defense relating to cybersecurity, including the following:
(1)
The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department of Defense required under section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
).
(2)
The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of Department of Defense critical infrastructure required under section 1650 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
(3)
The activities of the cyber protection teams of the Department of Defense.
(e)
Mission definition
The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall coordinate with the Director of the National Security Agency and the commanders of the unified combatant commands to define the elements of the missions that will be included in the Program, and shall be responsible for updating those definitions as necessary.
(f)
Briefing
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the establishment of the Program, and the plans, funding, and staffing of the Program.
.
1631.
Defense industrial base participation in a cybersecurity threat intelligence sharing program
(a)
Defense industrial base threat intelligence program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a threat intelligence sharing program to share threat intelligence with, and obtain threat intelligence from, the defense industrial base.
(2)
Program requirements
At a minimum, the Secretary shall ensure that the program established pursuant to paragraph (1) includes the following:
(A)
Cybersecurity incident reporting requirements applicable to the defense industrial base that—
(i)
extend beyond mandatory incident reporting requirements in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act;
(ii)
set specific timeframes for all categories of incident reporting;
(iii)
establishes a single clearinghouse for all mandatory incident reporting to the Department of Defense, including incidents involving covered unclassified information, and classified information; and
(iv)
provide that, unless authorized or required by another provision of law or the element of the defense industrial base making the report consents, nonpublic information of which the Department becomes aware only because of a report provided pursuant to the program shall be disseminated and used only for a cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (
6 U.S.C. 1501
).
(B)
A mechanism for developing a shared and real-time picture of the threat environment.
(C)
Joint, collaborative, and co-located analytics.
(D)
Investments in technology and capabilities to support automated detection and analysis across the defense industrial base.
(E)
Coordinated intelligence tipping, sharing, and deconfliction, as necessary, with relevant government agencies with similar intelligence sharing programs.
(b)
Threat intelligence program participation
(1)
Procurement
The Secretary either may require or shall encourage and provide incentive for companies to participate in the threat intelligence sharing program required by subsection (a).
(2)
Implementation
In implementing paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
create tiers of requirements for participation within the program based on—
(i)
the role of and relative threats related to entities within the defense industrial base; and
(ii)
Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification level; and
(B)
prioritize available funding and technical support to assist affected businesses, institutions, and organizations as is reasonably necessary for those affected entities to commence participation in the threat intelligence sharing program and to meet any applicable program requirements.
(c)
Existing information sharing programs
The Secretary may utilize an existing Department information sharing program to satisfy the requirement in subsection (a) if—
(1)
the existing program includes, or is modified to include, two-way sharing of threat information that is specifically relevant to the defense industrial base; and
(2)
such a program is coordinated with other government agencies with existing intelligence sharing programs where overlap occurs.
(d)
Regulations
(1)
Rulemaking authority
Not later than December 15, 2021, the Secretary shall promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out this section.
(2)
Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program harmonization
The Secretary shall ensure that any intelligence sharing requirements set forth in the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph (1) consider an entity’s maturity and role within the defense industrial base, consistent with the maturity certification levels established in the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program of the Department.
(e)
Community consent
(1)
In general
As part of the program established pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary either may require through contractual mechanisms or shall encourage entities in the defense industrial base to consent to queries of foreign intelligence collection databases related to the entities, provided that intelligence information provided to companies is handled in a manner that protects sources and methods.
(2)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require that the elements of the intelligence community conduct queries on defense industrial base companies to detect cybersecurity threats to such companies or to require that information resulting from such queries be provided to such companies.
(f)
Report required
Not later than March 1, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes a description of—
(1)
mandatory requirements levied on defense industrial base entities regarding cyber incidents;
(2)
Department procedures for ensuring the confidentiality and security of data provided by such entities to the Department on either a voluntary or mandatory basis; and
(3)
any other matters regarding the program established under subsection (a) the Secretary considers significant.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
defense industrial base
means the Department of Defense, Federal Government, and private sector worldwide industrial complex with capabilities to perform research and development, design, produce, and maintain military weapon systems, subsystems, components, or parts to satisfy military requirements.
(2)
The term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
(3)
The term
threat intelligence
means cybersecurity information collected and shared amongst the defense industrial base.
1632.
Assessment on defense industrial base cybersecurity threat hunting
(a)
Assessment required
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall complete an assessment of—
(1)
the adequacy of the threat hunting elements of the compliance-based Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program of the Department of Defense; and
(2)
the need for continuous threat hunting operations on defense industrial base networks conducted by the Department of Defense, prime contractors, or third-party cybersecurity vendors.
(b)
Elements
The assessment completed under section (a) shall include evaluation of the following:
(1)
The adequacy of the requirements at each level of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, including requirements germane to continuous monitoring, discovery, and investigation of anomalous activity indicative of a cybersecurity incident.
(2)
The need for the establishment of a continuous threat-hunting operational model, as a supplement to the cyber hygiene requirements of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, in which network activity is comprehensively and continuously monitored for signs of compromise.
(3)
Whether the continuous threat-hunting operations described in paragraph (2) should be conducted by—
(A)
United States Cyber Command;
(B)
a component of the Department of Defense other than United States Cyber Command;
(C)
qualified prime contractors or subcontractors;
(D)
accredited third-party cybersecurity vendors; or
(E)
a combination of the entities specified in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(4)
Criteria for the prime contractors and subcontractors that should be subject to continuous threat-hunting operations as described in paragraph (2).
(c)
Briefing
Not later than February 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on—
(1)
the findings of the Secretary with respect to the assessment completed under subsection (a); and
(2)
such implementation plans as the Secretary may have arising out of the findings described in paragraph (1).
1633.
Assessing risk to national security of quantum computing
(a)
Comprehensive assessment and recommendations required
Not later than December 31, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
complete a comprehensive assessment of the current and potential threats and risks posed by quantum computing technologies to critical national security systems, including—
(A)
identification and prioritization of critical national security systems at risk;
(B)
assessment of the standards of the National Institute of Standards and Technology for quantum resistant cryptography and their applicability to cryptographic requirements of the Department of Defense;
(C)
feasibility of alternative quantum resistant algorithms and features; and
(D)
funding shortfalls in public and private developmental efforts relating to quantum resistant cryptography; and
(2)
develop recommendations for research, development, and acquisition activities, including resourcing schedules, for securing the national security systems identified in paragraph (1)(A) against quantum computing code-breaking capabilities.
(b)
Briefing
Not later than February 1, 2023, the Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the assessment completed under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the recommendations developed under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
1634.
Applicability of reorientation of Big Data Platform program to Department of Navy
(a)
In general
Section 1651 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Applicability
The requirements of this section shall apply in full to the Department of the Navy, including the Sharkcage and associated programs.
.
(b)
Briefing
Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy, the program manager of the Unified Platform program, the Chief Information Officer, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly brief the congressional defense committees on the compliance of the Department of the Navy with the requirements of such section, as amended by paragraph (1).
1635.
Expansion of authority for access and information relating to cyber attacks on operationally critical contractors of the Armed Forces
Section 391(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
Armed forces assistance and access to equipment and information by members of the armed forces
The procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
(A)
include mechanisms for a member of the armed forces—
(i)
if requested by an operationally critical contractor, to assist the contractor in detecting and mitigating penetrations; or
(ii)
at the request of the Secretary of Defense or the Commandant of the Coast Guard, to obtain access to equipment or information of an operationally critical contractor necessary to conduct a forensic analysis, in addition to any analysis conducted by the contractor; and
(B)
provide that an operationally critical contractor is only required to provide access to equipment or information as described in subparagraph (A) to determine whether—
(i)
information created by or for the armed forces in connection with any program of the armed forces was successfully exfiltrated from or compromised on a network or information system of such contractor and, if so, what information was exfiltrated or compromised; or
(ii)
the ability of the contractor to provide operationally critical support has been affected and, if so, how and to what extent it has been affected.
;
(2)
in paragraph (4), by inserting
, so as to minimize delays in or any curtailing of the cyber response or defensive actions of the Department or the Coast Guard
after
specific person
; and
(3)
in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting
or counterintelligence activities
after
investigations
.
1636.
Requirements for review of and limitations on the Joint Regional Security Stacks activity
(a)
Baseline review
Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall undertake a baseline review of the Joint Regional Security Stacks (JRSS) to determine whether the activity—
(1)
should proceed as a program of record, with modifications as specified in section (b), for exclusively the Non-Classified Internet Protocol Network (NIPRNET) or for such network and the Secret Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNET); or
(2)
should be phased out across the Department of Defense with each of the Joint Regional Security Stacks replaced through the institution of cost-effective and capable networking and cybersecurity technologies, architectures, and operational concepts within five years of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b)
Plan to transition to program of record
If the Secretary determines under subsection (a) that the Joint Regional Security Stacks activity should proceed, not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall develop a plan to transition such activity to a program of record, governed by standard Department of Defense acquisition program requirements and practices, including the following:
(1)
Baseline operational requirements documentation.
(2)
An acquisition strategy and baseline.
(3)
A program office and responsible program manager, under the oversight of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, responsible for pertinent doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities and policy matters, and the development of effective tactics, techniques, and procedures;
(4)
manning and training requirements documentation; and
(5)
operational test planning.
(c)
Limitations
(1)
Limitation on use of funds
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to field Joint Regional Security Stacks on the Secret Internet Protocol Network in fiscal year 2021.
(2)
Limitation on operational deployment
The Secretary may not conduct an operational deployment of Joint Regional Security Stacks to the Secret Internet Protocol Network in fiscal year 2021.
(d)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees—
(1)
the findings of the Secretary with respect to the baseline review conducted under subsection (a);
(2)
the plan developed under subsection (b), if any; and
(3)
a proposal for the replacement of Joint Regional Security Stacks, if the Secretary determines under subsection (a) that it should be replaced.
1637.
Independent assessment of establishment of a National Cyber Director
(a)
Assessment
Not later than December 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall seek to enter into an agreement with an independent organization with relevant expertise in cyber policy and governmental organization to conduct and complete an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of establishing a National Cyber Director.
(b)
Elements
The assessment required under subsection (a) shall include a review of and development of recommendations germane to the following, including the development of proposed legislative text for the establishment of a National Cyber Director:
(1)
The authorities necessary to bring capabilities and capacities together across the interagency, all levels of government, and the private sector.
(2)
A definition of the roles of the National Cyber Director in planning, preparing, and directing integrated cyber operations in response to a major cyber attack on the United States, including intelligence operations, law enforcement actions, cyber effects operations, defensive operations, and incident response operations.
(3)
The authorities necessary to align resources to cyber priorities.
(4)
The structure of the office of the National Cyber Director and position within government.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on—
(A)
the findings of the independent organization with respect to the assessment carried out under subsection (a); and
(B)
the recommendations developed as part of such assessment under subsection (b).
(2)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified format, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
1638.
Modification of authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects
(a)
In general
Section 1640 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by redsignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(2)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by striking
The Secretary of Defense
and inserting
Subject to subsection (b), the Commander of the United States Cyber Command
;
(B)
by striking
per service
and inserting
per use
; and
(C)
by striking
through 2022
and inserting
through 2025
; and
(3)
by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
(b)
Limitation
(1)
Each fiscal year, the Secretaries of the military departments concerned may each obligate and expend under subsection (a) not more than $20,000,000.
(2)
Each fiscal year, the Commander of the United States Cyber Command may obligate and expend under subsection (a) not more than $6,000,000.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Subsection (c) of such section is amended by striking
through 2022
and inserting
through 2025
.
1639.
Personnel management authority for Commander of United States Cyber Command and development program for offensive cyber operations
(a)
Personnel management authority for Commander of United States Cyber Command to attract experts in science and engineering
Section 1599h of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 212 of National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
)), is further amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
(7)
United States Cyber Command
The Commander of United States Cyber Command may carry out a program of personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate the recruitment of eminent experts in computer science, data science, engineering, mathematics, and computer network exploitation within the headquarters of United States Cyber Command and the Cyber National Mission Force.
; and
(2)
in subsection (b)(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in subparagraph (F), by striking the semicolon and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(G)
in the case of United States Cyber Command, appoint computer scientists, data scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and computer network exploitation specialists to a total of not more than 10 scientific and engineering positions in the Command;
.
(b)
Program to develop accesses, discover vulnerabilities, and engineer cyber tools and develop tactics, techniques, and procedures for offensive cyber operations
(1)
In general
Pursuant to the authority provided under section 1599h(a)(7) of such title, as added by subsection (a), the Commander of United States Cyber Command shall establish a program or augment an existing program within the Command to develop accesses, discover vulnerabilities, and engineer cyber tools and develop tactics, techniques, and procedures for the use of these assets and capabilities in offensive cyber operations.
(2)
Elements
The program or augmented program required by paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
develop accesses, tools, vulnerabilities, and tactics, techniques, and procedures fit for Department of Defense military operations in cyberspace, such as reliability, meeting short development and operational timelines, low cost, and expendability;
(B)
aim to decrease the reliance of Cyber Command on accesses, tools, and expertise provided by the intelligence community;
(C)
be designed to provide technical and operational expertise on par with that of programs of the intelligence community;
(D)
enable the Commander to attract and retain expertise resident in the private sector and other technologically elite government organizations; and
(E)
coordinate development activities with, and, as appropriate, facilitate transition of capabilities from, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Strategic Capabilities Office, and components within the intelligence community.
(3)
Intelligence community defined
In this subsection, the term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
1640.
Implementation of information operations matters
Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 for operation and maintenance and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the travel of persons as specified in the table in section 4301—
(1)
not more than 25 percent shall be available until the date on which the report required by subsection (h)(1) of section 1631 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is submitted to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services House of Representatives; and
(2)
not more than 75 percent shall be available until the date on which the strategy and posture review required by subsection (g) of such section is submitted to such committees.
1641.
Report on Cyber Institutes Program
Section 1640 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2310;
10 U.S.C. 2200
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Report to Congress
Not later than September 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the effectiveness of the Cyber Institutes and on opportunities to expand the Cyber Institutes to additional select institutions of higher learning that have a Reserve Officers’ Training Corps program.
.
1642.
Assistance for small manufacturers in the defense industrial supply chain on matters relating to cybersecurity
(a)
In general
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, may award financial assistance to a Center for the purpose of providing cybersecurity services to small manufacturers.
(b)
Criteria
The Secretary, in consultation with the Director, shall establish and publish on the grants.gov website, or successor website, criteria for selecting recipients for financial assistance under this section.
(c)
Use of financial assistance
Financial assistance under this section—
(1)
shall be used by a Center to provide small manufacturers with cybersecurity services relating to—
(A)
compliance with the cybersecurity requirements of the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, including awareness, assessment, evaluation, preparation, and implementation of cybersecurity services; and
(B)
achieving compliance with the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification framework of the Department of Defense; and
(2)
may be used by a Center to employ trained personnel to deliver cybersecurity services to small manufacturers.
(d)
Biennial reports
(1)
In general
Not less frequently than once every two years, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a biennial report on financial assistance awarded under this section.
(2)
Contents
To the extent practicable, each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following with respect to the years covered by the report:
(A)
The number of small manufacturing companies assisted.
(B)
A description of the cybersecurity services provided.
(C)
A description of the cybersecurity matters addressed.
(D)
An analysis of the operational effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the cybersecurity services provided.
(e)
Termination
The authority of the Secretary to award of financial assistance under this section shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
Center
has the meaning given such term in section 25(a) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 278k(a)
).
(2)
The term
small manufacturer
has the meaning given that term in section 1644(g) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
1643.
Study on cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their families
(a)
Study required
Not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete a study on the cyberexploitation of the personal information and accounts of members of the Armed Forces and their families.
(b)
Elements
The study required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An intelligence assessment of the threat currently posed by foreign government and non-state actor cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their families, including generalized assessments as to whether cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their families is a substantial threat as compared to other means of information warfare and as to whether cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their families is an increasing threat.
(2)
Case-study analysis of three known occurrences of attempted cyberexploitation against members of the Armed Forces and their families, including assessments of the vulnerability and the ultimate consequences of the attempted cyberexploitation.
(3)
A description of the actions taken by the Department of Defense to educate members of the Armed Forces and their families, including particularly vulnerable subpopulations, about any actions that can be taken to reduce these threats.
(4)
An intelligence assessment of the threat posed by foreign government and non-state actor creation and use of deep fakes featuring members of the Armed Forces or their families, including generalized assessments of the maturity of the technology used in the creation of deep fakes and as to how deep fakes have been used or might be used to conduct information warfare.
(5)
Development of recommendations for policy changes to reduce the vulnerability of members of the Armed Forces and their families to cyberexploitation, including recommendations for legislative or administrative action.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the Secretary with respect to the study required by subsection (a).
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
cyberexploitation
means the use of digital means to knowingly access, or conspire to access, without authorization, an individual’s personal information to be employed (or to be used) with malicious intent.
(2)
The term
deep fake
means the digital insertion of a person’s likeness into or digital alteration of a person’s likeness in visual media, such as photographs and videos, without the person’s permission and with malicious intent.
C
Nuclear Forces
1651.
Modification to responsibilities of Nuclear Weapons Council
Section 179(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (12) as paragraphs (10) through (13), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new paragraph (9):
(9)
Reviewing proposed capabilities, and establishing and validating performance requirements (as defined in section 181(h) of this title), for nuclear warhead programs.
.
1652.
Responsibility of Nuclear Weapons Council in preparation of National Nuclear Security Administration budget
Paragraph (11) of section 179(d) of title 10, United States Code, as redesignated by section 1651, is further amended to read as follows:
(11)
As part of the planning, programming, budgeting, and execution process of the National Nuclear Security Administration—
(A)
providing guidance with respect to the development of the annual budget proposals of the Administration under section 3255 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act;
(B)
reviewing the adequacy of such proposals under section 4717 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act; and
(C)
preparing, coordinating, and approving such proposals, including before such proposals are submitted to—
(i)
the Secretary of Energy;
(ii)
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(iii)
the President; or
(iv)
Congress (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31).
.
1653.
Modification of Government Accountability Office review of annual reports on nuclear weapons enterprise
Section 492a(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
review each report
and inserting
periodically review reports submitted
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
not later
and all that follows through
submitted,
.
1654.
Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States
(a)
Prohibition
Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do the following:
(1)
Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States.
(2)
Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States to a number less than 400.
(b)
Exception
The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any of the following activities:
(1)
The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
(2)
Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
1655.
Sense of the Senate on nuclear cooperation between the United States and the United Kingdom
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) continues to play an essential role in the national security of the United States and the independent nuclear deterrents of other NATO members, such as the United Kingdom, have helped underwrite peace and security;
(2)
the nuclear programs of the United States and the United Kingdom have enjoyed significant collaborative benefits as a result of the cooperative relationship formalized in the Agreement for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes, signed at Washington July 3, 1958, and entered into force August 4, 1958 (9 UST 1028), between the United States and the United Kingdom (commonly referred to as the
Mutual Defense Agreement
);
(3)
the unique partnership between the United States and the United Kingdom has enhanced sovereign military and scientific capabilities, strengthened bilateral ties, and shared costs, particularly on such programs as the Trident II D–5 weapons system and the common missile compartment for the future Dreadnought and Columbia classes of submarines;
(4)
additionally, the extension of the nuclear deterrence commitments of the United Kingdom to members of the NATO alliance strengthens collective security while reducing the burden placed on United States nuclear forces to deter potential adversaries and assure allies of the United States and the United Kingdom;
(5)
as the international security environment deteriorates and potential adversaries expand and enhance their nuclear forces, the extended deterrence commitments of the United Kingdom play an increasingly important role in supporting the security interests of the United States and allies of the United States and the United Kingdom;
(6)
it is in the national security interest of the United States to support the United Kingdom with respect to the decision of the Government of the United Kingdom to maintain its nuclear deterrent until global security conditions warrant its elimination;
(7)
as the United States must modernize its aging nuclear forces to ensure its ability to continue to field a nuclear deterrent that is safe, secure, and effective, the United Kingdom faces a similar challenge;
(8)
bilateral cooperation on the parallel development of the W93/Mk7 warhead of the United States and the replacement warhead of the United Kingdom, as well as associated components, will allow the United States and the United Kingdom to responsibly address challenges within their legacy nuclear forces in a cost-effective manner that—
(A)
preserves independent, sovereign control;
(B)
is consistent with each country’s obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow July 1, 1968 (21 UST 483) (commonly referred to as the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
); and
(C)
supports nonproliferation objectives; and
(9)
continued cooperation between the nuclear programs of United States and the United Kingdom, including through the W93/Mk7 program, is essential to ensuring that the NATO alliance continues to be supported by credible nuclear forces capable of preserving peace, preventing coercion, and deterring aggression.
D
Missile defense programs
1661.
Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli cooperative missile defense program co-development and co-production
(a)
Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system
(1)
Availability of funds
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $73,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel to procure components for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system through co-production of such components in the United States by industry of the United States.
(2)
Conditions
(A)
Agreement
Funds described in paragraph (1) for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of the United States of America and the Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as amended to include co-production for Tamir interceptors.
(B)
Certification
Not later than 30 days prior to the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees—
(i)
a certification that the amended bilateral international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is being implemented as provided in such agreement;
(ii)
an assessment detailing any risks relating to the implementation of such agreement; and
(iii)
for system improvements resulting in modified Iron Dome components and Tamir interceptor sub-components, a certification that the Government of Israel has demonstrated successful completion of Production Readiness Reviews, including the validation of production lines, the verification of component conformance, and the verification of performance to specification as defined in the Iron Dome Defense System Procurement Agreement, as further amended.
(b)
Israeli cooperative missile defense program, David's Sling Weapon System co-production
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (3), of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more than $50,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon System, including for co-production of parts and components in the United States by United States industry.
(2)
Agreement
Provision of funds specified in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the terms and conditions in the bilateral co-production agreement, including—
(A)
a one-for-one cash match is made by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel); and
(B)
co-production of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 percent.
(3)
Certification and assessment
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees—
(A)
a certification that the Government of Israel has demonstrated the successful completion of the knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the research, development, and technology agreement and the bilateral co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon System; and
(B)
an assessment detailing any risks relating to the implementation of such agreement.
(c)
Israeli cooperative missile defense program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program co-production
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more than $77,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program, including for co-production of parts and components in the United States by United States industry.
(2)
Certification
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a certification that—
(A)
the Government of Israel has demonstrated the successful completion of the knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the research, development, and technology agreement for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
(B)
funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
(C)
the United States has entered into a bilateral international agreement with Israel that establishes, with respect to the use of such funds—
(i)
in accordance with subparagraph (D), the terms of co-production of parts and components on the basis of the greatest practicable co-production of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United States industry and minimizes nonrecurring engineering and facilitization expenses to the costs needed for co-production;
(ii)
complete transparency on the requirement of Israel for the number of interceptors and batteries that will be procured, including with respect to the procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of Israel;
(iii)
technical milestones for co-production of parts and components and procurement;
(iv)
a joint affordability working group to consider cost reduction initiatives; and
(v)
joint approval processes for third-party sales; and
(D)
the level of co-production described in subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
(d)
Number
In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit—
(1)
one certification covering both the David's Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; or
(2)
separate certifications for each respective system.
(e)
Timing
The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the certification and assessment under subsection (b)(3) and the certification under subsection (c)(2) no later than 30 days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and (c) for the respective system covered by the certification are provided to the Government of Israel.
(f)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the following:
(1)
The congressional defense committees.
(2)
The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
1662.
Acceleration of the deployment of hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor payload
(a)
Primary responsibility for development and deployment of hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor payload
(1)
In general
Not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—
(A)
assign the Director of the Missile Defense Agency with the principal responsibility for the development and deployment of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor payload through the end of fiscal year 2022; and
(B)
submit to the congressional defense committees certification of such assignment.
(2)
Transition
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees—
(A)
a determination regarding whether responsibility for a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor payload should be transitioned to the United States Space Force at the end of fiscal year 2022 or later; and
(B)
if the Secretary so determines, a plan for transition of primary responsibility that minimizes disruption to the program and provides for sufficient funding as described in subsection (b)(1).
(b)
Certification regarding funding of hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor program
(1)
In general
At the same time that the President submits to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the annual budget request of the President for fiscal year 2022, the Under Secretary of Defense Comptroller and the Director for Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a certification as to whether the hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor program is sufficiently funded in the future-years defense program.
(2)
Funding limitation
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 under the Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, account for the Office of Secretary of Defense travel of persons assigned to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, not more than 50 percent of such funds may be obligated or expended until the certification required by paragraph (1) is submitted under such paragraph.
(c)
Deployment deadline
Section 1683(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
;
10 U.S.C. 2431
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking
(a)
In general
.—
and inserting the following:
(a)
Development, testing, and deployment
(1)
Development
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(2)
Testing and deployment
The Director shall begin on-orbit testing of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor no later than December 31, 2022, with full operational deployment as soon as technically feasible thereafter.
(3)
Waiver
The Secretary of Defense may waive the deadline for testing specified in paragraph (2) if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a report containing—
(A)
the explanation why the Secretary cannot meet such deadline;
(B)
the technical risks and estimated cost of accelerating the program to attempt to meet such deadline;
(C)
an assessment of threat systems that could not be detected or tracked persistently due to waiving such deadline; and
(D)
a plan, including a timeline, for beginning the required testing.
.
(d)
Assessment and report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council established under section 181 of title 10, United States Code, shall—
(1)
complete an assessment on whether all efforts being made by the Missile Defense Agency, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Air Force, and the Space Development Agency relating to space-based sensing and tracking capabilities for missile defense are aligned with the requirements of United States Strategic Command, United States Northern Command, United States European Command, and United States Indo-Pacific Command for missile tracking and missile warning that have been validated by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council; and
(2)
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the Chair with respect to the assessment conducted under paragraph (1).
1663.
Extension of prohibition relating to missile defense information and systems
Section 130h(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
January 1, 2021
and inserting
January 1, 2026
.
1664.
Report on and limitation on expenditure of funds for layered homeland missile defense system
(a)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the proposal for a layered homeland missile defense system included in the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 (as submitted with the budget of the President for such year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
(2)
Elements required
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the approved requirements for a layered homeland missile defense system, based on an assessment by the intelligence community of threats to be addressed at the time of deployment of such a system.
(B)
An assessment of how such requirements addressed by a layered homeland missile defense system relate to those addressed by the existing ground-based midcourse defense system, including deployed ground-based interceptors and planned upgrades to such ground-based interceptors.
(C)
An analysis of interceptor solutions to meet such requirements, to include land-based Standard Missile 3 (SM–3) Block IIA interceptor systems and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, with the number of locations required for deployment and the production numbers of interceptors and related sensors.
(D)
A site-specific fielding plan that includes possible locations, the number and type of interceptors and radars in each location, and any associated environmental or permitting considerations, including an assessment of the locations evaluated pursuant to section 227(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 1679;
Public Law 112–239
) for inclusion in the layered homeland missile defense system.
(E)
Relevant policy considerations for deployment of such systems for defense against intercontinental ballistic missiles in the continental United States.
(F)
A cost estimate and schedule for options involving a land-based Standard Missile 3 Block IIA interceptor system and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, including required environmental assessments.
(G)
A feasibility assessment of the necessary modifications to the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system to address such requirements.
(H)
An assessment of the industrial base capacity to support additional production of either a land-based Standard Missile 3 Block IIA interceptor system or the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system.
(3)
Consultation
In preparing the report required by paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with the following:
(A)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
(B)
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
(C)
The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in Vice Chairman's capacity as the Chair of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.
(D)
The Commander, United States Strategic Command.
(E)
The Commander, United States Northern Command.
(b)
Limitation on use of funds
Not more than 50 percent of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Missile Defense Agency for the purposes of a layered homeland missile defense system may be obligated or expended until the Director submits to the congressional defense committees the report required by subsection (a).
(c)
Intelligence community defined
In this section, the term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
1665.
Extension of requirement for Comptroller General review and assessment of missile defense acquisition programs
Section 232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (
Public Law 112–81
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
through 2020
and inserting
through 2025
;
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by striking
through 2021
and inserting
through 2026
; and
(B)
by striking
year. Each
and all that follows through
appropriate.
and insert the following:
, which shall include such findings and recommendations as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(3)
Review of emerging issues
In carrying out this subsection, as the Comptroller General determines is warranted, the Comptroller General shall review emerging issues and, in consultation with the congressional defense committees, brief such committees or submit to such committees a report on the findings of the Comptroller General with respect to such review.
.
1666.
Repeal of requirement for reporting structure of Missile Defense Agency
Section 205 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
205.
Missile Defense Agency
The Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall be appointed for a six-year term.
.
1667.
Ground-based midcourse defense interim capability
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the nuclear and ballistic missile threats from rogue nations are increasing; and
(2)
the Department of Defense should fully assess development of an interim ground-based missile defense capability while also pursuing the development of a next generation interceptor capability.
(b)
Interim ground-based interceptor
(1)
Development
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Commander of the United States Northern Command, and the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall commence carrying out a program to develop an interim ground-based interceptor capability that will—
(A)
use sound acquisition practices;
(B)
address the majority of current and near- to mid-term projected ballistic missile threats to the United States homeland from rogue nations;
(C)
at minimum, meet the proposed capabilities of the Redesigned Kill Vehicle program;
(D)
leverage existing kill vehicle and booster technology; and
(E)
appropriately balance interceptor performance with schedule of delivery.
(2)
Deployment
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Commander of the United States Northern Command, and the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall—
(A)
conduct rigorous flight testing of the interim ground-based interceptor; and
(B)
deliver 20 new ground-based interceptors by 2026.
(3)
Waiver authority
(A)
The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements under paragraphs (1) and (2) if the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that—
(i)
the technology development is not technically feasible;
(ii)
the interim capability development is not in the national security interest of the United States; or
(iii)
the next generation interceptor for the ground-based midcourse defense system can deliver capability before the program otherwise required by this subsection.
(B)
If the Secretary chooses to waive the requirements under paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees along with the certification required by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph—
(i)
an explanation of the rationale for the decision;
(ii)
an estimate of projected rogue nation threats to the United States homeland that will not be defended against until the fielding of the next generation interceptor for the ground-based midcourse defense system; and
(iii)
an updated schedule for development and deployment of the next generation interceptor.
(C)
The Secretary may not delegate the certification described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) unless the Secretary is recused, in which case the Secretary may delegate such certification to the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(c)
Capabilities and criteria
The Director shall ensure that the interim ground-based interceptor developed under subsection (c)(1) meets, at a minimum, the following capabilities and criteria:
(1)
Vehicle-to-vehicle communications, as applicable.
(2)
Vehicle-to-ground communications.
(3)
Kill assessment capability.
(4)
The ability to counter advanced counter measures, decoys, and penetration aids.
(5)
Producibility and manufacturability.
(6)
Use of technology involving high technology readiness levels.
(7)
Options to integrate the new kill vehicle onto other missile defense interceptor vehicles other than the ground-based interceptors of the ground-based midcourse defense system.
(8)
Sound acquisition processes.
(d)
Report on funding profile
The Director shall include with the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the interim ground-based interceptor program to meet the objectives under subsection (c).
XVII
Hong Kong Autonomy Act
1701.
Short title
This title may be cited as the
Hong Kong Autonomy Act
.
1702.
Definitions
In this title:
(1)
Alien; national; national of the United States
The terms
alien
,
national
, and
national of the United States
have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
(2)
Appropriate congressional committees and leadership
The term
appropriate congressional committees and leadership
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Speaker and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
(3)
Basic Law
The term
Basic Law
means the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China.
(4)
China
The term
China
means the People's Republic of China.
(5)
Entity
The term
entity
means a partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or subgroup, or any other form of business collaboration.
(6)
Financial institution
The term
financial institution
means a financial institution specified in section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States Code.
(7)
Hong Kong
The term
Hong Kong
means the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China.
(8)
Joint Declaration
The term
Joint Declaration
means the Joint Declaration of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Question of Hong Kong, done at Beijing on December 19, 1984.
(9)
Knowingly
The term
knowingly
, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(10)
Person
The term
person
means an individual or entity.
(11)
United States person
The term
United States person
means—
(A)
any citizen or national of the United States;
(B)
any alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States;
(C)
any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including a foreign branch of such an entity); or
(D)
any person located in the United States.
1703.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Joint Declaration and the Basic Law clarify certain obligations and promises that the Government of China has made with respect to the future of Hong Kong.
(2)
The obligations of the Government of China under the Joint Declaration were codified in a legally-binding treaty, signed by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and registered with the United Nations.
(3)
The obligations of the Government of China under the Basic Law originate from the Joint Declaration, were passed into the domestic law of China by the National People’s Congress, and are widely considered by citizens of Hong Kong as part of the de facto legal constitution of Hong Kong.
(4)
Foremost among the obligations of the Government of China to Hong Kong is the promise that, pursuant to Paragraph 3b of the Joint Declaration,
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will enjoy a high degree of autonomy, except in foreign and defence affairs which are the responsibilities of the Central People's Government
.
(5)
The obligation specified in Paragraph 3b of the Joint Declaration is referenced, reinforced, and extrapolated on in several portions of the Basic Law, including Articles 2, 12, 13, 14, and 22.
(6)
Article 22 of the Basic Law establishes that
No department of the Central People’s Government and no province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central Government may interfere in the affairs which the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region administers on its own in accordance with this Law.
.
(7)
The Joint Declaration and the Basic Law make clear that additional obligations shall be undertaken by China to ensure the
high degree of autonomy
of Hong Kong.
(8)
Paragraph 3c of the Joint Declaration states, as reinforced by Articles 2, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 22 of the Basic Law, that Hong Kong
will be vested with executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication
.
(9)
On multiple occasions, the Government of China has undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent of the obligation described in paragraph (8) of this section, including the following:
(A)
In 1999, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress overruled a decision by the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal on the right of abode.
(B)
On multiple occasions, the Government of Hong Kong, at the advice of the Government of China, is suspected to have not allowed persons entry into Hong Kong allegedly because of their support for democracy and human rights in Hong Kong and China.
(C)
The Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong has, despite restrictions on interference in the affairs of Hong Kong as detailed in Article 22 of the Basic Law—
(i)
openly expressed support for candidates in Hong Kong for Chief Executive and Legislative Council;
(ii)
expressed views on various policies for the Government of Hong Kong and other internal matters relating to Hong Kong; and
(iii)
on April 17, 2020, asserted that both the Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong and the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the State Council
have the right to exercise supervision … on affairs regarding Hong Kong and the mainland, in order to ensure correct implementation of the Basic Law
.
(D)
The National People’s Congress has passed laws requiring Hong Kong to pass laws banning disrespectful treatment of the national flag and national anthem of China.
(E)
The State Council of China released a white paper on June 10, 2014, that stressed the
comprehensive jurisdiction
of the Government of China over Hong Kong and indicated that Hong Kong must be governed by
patriots
.
(F)
The Government of China has directed operatives to kidnap and bring to the mainland, or is otherwise responsible for the kidnapping of, residents of Hong Kong, including businessman Xiao Jianhua and bookseller Gui Minhai.
(G)
The Government of Hong Kong, acting with the support of the Government of China, introduced an extradition bill that would have permitted the Government of China to request and enforce extradition requests for any individual present in Hong Kong, regardless of the legality of the request or the degree to which it compromised the judicial independence of Hong Kong.
(H)
The spokesman for the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress said,
Whether Hong Kong’s laws are consistent with the Basic Law can only be judged and decided by the National People’s Congress Standing Committee. No other authority has the right to make judgments and decisions.
.
(10)
Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration states, as reinforced by Article 5 of the Basic Law, that the
current social and economic systems in Hong Kong will remain unchanged, as so will the life-style.
.
(11)
On multiple occasions, the Government of China has undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent of the obligation described in paragraph (10) of this section, including the following:
(A)
In 2002, the Government of China pressured the Government of Hong Kong to introduce
patriotic
curriculum in primary and secondary schools.
(B)
The governments of China and Hong Kong proposed the prohibition of discussion of Hong Kong independence and self-determination in primary and secondary schools, which infringes on freedom of speech.
(C)
The Government of Hong Kong mandated that Mandarin, and not the native language of Cantonese, be the language of instruction in Hong Kong schools.
(D)
The governments of China and Hong Kong agreed to a daily quota of mainland immigrants to Hong Kong, which is widely believed by citizens of Hong Kong to be part of an effort to
mainlandize
Hong Kong.
(12)
Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration states, as reinforced by Articles 4, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 33, 34, and 39 of the Basic Law, that the
rights and freedoms, including those of person, of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of travel, of movement, of correspondence, of strike, of choice of occupation, of academic research and of religious belief will be ensured by law
in Hong Kong.
(13)
On multiple occasions, the Government of China has undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent of the obligation described in paragraph (12) of this section, including the following:
(A)
On February 26, 2003, the Government of Hong Kong introduced a national security bill that would have placed restrictions on freedom of speech and other protected rights.
(B)
The Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong has pressured businesses in Hong Kong not to advertise in newspapers and magazines critical of the governments of China and Hong Kong.
(C)
The Hong Kong Police Force selectively blocked demonstrations and protests expressing opposition to the governments of China and Hong Kong or the policies of those governments.
(D)
The Government of Hong Kong refused to renew work visa for a foreign journalist, allegedly for hosting a speaker from the banned Hong Kong National Party.
(E)
The Justice Department of Hong Kong selectively prosecuted cases against leaders of the Umbrella Movement, while failing to prosecute police officers accused of using excessive force during the protests in 2014.
(F)
On April 18, 2020, the Hong Kong Police Force arrested 14 high-profile democracy activists and campaigners for their role in organizing a protest march that took place on August 18, 2019, in which almost 2,000,000 people rallied against a proposed extradition bill.
(14)
Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law assert that the selection of Chief Executive and all members of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong should be by
universal suffrage.
.
(15)
On multiple occasions, the Government of China has undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent of the obligation described in paragraph (14) of this section, including the following:
(A)
In 2004, the National People’s Congress created new, antidemocratic procedures restricting the adoption of universal suffrage for the election of the Chief Executive of Hong Kong.
(B)
The decision by the National People’s Congress on December 29, 2007, which ruled out universal suffrage in 2012 elections and set restrictions on when and if universal suffrage will be implemented.
(C)
The decision by the National People’s Congress on August 31, 2014, which placed limits on the nomination process for the Chief Executive of Hong Kong as a condition for adoption of universal suffrage.
(D)
On November 7, 2016, the National People’s Congress interpreted Article 104 of the Basic Law in such a way to disqualify 6 elected members of the Legislative Council.
(E)
In 2018, the Government of Hong Kong banned the Hong Kong National Party and blocked the candidacy of pro-democracy candidates.
(16)
The ways in which the Government of China, at times with the support of a subservient Government of Hong Kong, has acted in contravention of its obligations under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, as set forth in this section, are deeply concerning to the people of Hong Kong, the United States, and members of the international community who support the autonomy of Hong Kong.
1704.
Sense of Congress regarding Hong Kong
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States continues to uphold the principles and policy established in the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (
22 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.) and the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 (
Public Law 116–76
;
22 U.S.C. 5701
note), which remain consistent with China’s obligations under the Joint Declaration and certain promulgated objectives under the Basic Law, including that—
(A)
as set forth in section 101(1) of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (
22 U.S.C. 5711(1)
),
The United States should play an active role, before, on, and after July 1, 1997, in maintaining Hong Kong's confidence and prosperity, Hong Kong's role as an international financial center, and the mutually beneficial ties between the people of the United States and the people of Hong Kong.
; and
(B)
as set forth in section 2(5) of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (
22 U.S.C. 5701(5)
),
Support for democratization is a fundamental principle of United States foreign policy. As such, it naturally applies to United States policy toward Hong Kong. This will remain equally true after June 30, 1997.
;
(2)
although the United States recognizes that, under the Joint Declaration, the Government of China
resumed the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong with effect on 1 July 1997
, the United States supports the autonomy of Hong Kong in furtherance of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 and the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 and advances the desire of the people of Hong Kong to continue the
one country, two systems
regime, in addition to other obligations promulgated by China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
(3)
in order to support the benefits and protections that Hong Kong has been afforded by the Government of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, the United States should establish a clear and unambiguous set of penalties with respect to foreign persons determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be involved in the contravention of the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law and the financial institutions transacting with those foreign persons;
(4)
the Secretary of State should provide an unclassified assessment of the reason for imposition of certain economic penalties on entities, so as to permit a clear path for the removal of economic penalties if the sanctioned behavior is reversed and verified by the Secretary of State;
(5)
relevant Federal agencies should establish a multilateral sanctions regime with respect to foreign persons involved in the contravention of the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law; and
(6)
in addition to the penalties on foreign persons, and financial institutions transacting with those foreign persons, for the contravention of the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, the United States should take steps, in a time of crisis, to assist permanent residents of Hong Kong who are persecuted or fear persecution as a result of the contravention by China of its obligations under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law to become eligible to obtain lawful entry into the United States.
1705.
Identification of foreign persons involved in the erosion of the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law and foreign financial institutions that conduct significant transactions with those persons
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that a foreign person is materially contributing to, has materially contributed to, or attempts to materially contribute to the failure of the Government of China to meet its obligations under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report that includes—
(1)
an identification of the foreign person; and
(2)
a clear explanation for why the foreign person was identified and a description of the activity that resulted in the identification.
(b)
Identifying foreign financial institutions
Not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days after the Secretary of State submits to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership the report under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report that identifies any foreign financial institution that knowingly conducts a significant transaction with a foreign person identified in the report under subsection (a).
(c)
Exclusion of certain information
(1)
Intelligence
The Secretary of State shall not disclose the identity of a person in a report submitted under subsection (a) or (b), or an update under subsection (e), if the Director of National Intelligence determines that such disclosure could compromise an intelligence operation, activity, source, or method of the United States.
(2)
Law enforcement
The Secretary of State shall not disclose the identity of a person in a report submitted under subsection (a) or (b), or an update under subsection (e), if the Attorney General, in coordination, as appropriate, with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the head of any other appropriate Federal law enforcement agency, and the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that such disclosure could reasonably be expected—
(A)
to compromise the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution that furnished information on a confidential basis;
(B)
to jeopardize the integrity or success of an ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution;
(C)
to endanger the life or physical safety of any person; or
(D)
to cause substantial harm to physical property.
(3)
Notification required
If the Director of National Intelligence makes a determination under paragraph (1) or the Attorney General makes a determination under paragraph (2), the Director or the Attorney General, as the case may be, shall notify the appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the determination and the reasons for the determination.
(d)
Exclusion or removal of foreign persons and foreign financial institutions
(1)
Foreign persons
The President may exclude a foreign person from the report under subsection (a), or an update under subsection (e), or remove a foreign person from the report or update prior to the imposition of sanctions under section 1706(a) if the material contribution (as described in subsection (g)) that merited inclusion in that report or update—
(A)
does not have a significant and lasting negative effect that contravenes the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
(B)
is not likely to be repeated in the future; and
(C)
has been reversed or otherwise mitigated through positive countermeasures taken by that foreign person.
(2)
Foreign financial institutions
The President may exclude a foreign financial institution from the report under subsection (b), or an update under subsection (e), or remove a foreign financial institution from the report or update prior to the imposition of sanctions under section 1707(a) if the significant transaction or significant transactions of the foreign financial institution that merited inclusion in that report or update—
(A)
does not have a significant and lasting negative effect that contravenes the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
(B)
is not likely to be repeated in the future; and
(C)
has been reversed or otherwise mitigated through positive countermeasures taken by that foreign financial institution.
(3)
Notification required
If the President makes a determination under paragraph (1) or (2) to exclude or remove a foreign person or foreign financial institution from a report under subsection (a) or (b), as the case may be, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the determination and the reasons for the determination.
(e)
Update of reports
(1)
In general
Each report submitted under subsections (a) and (b) shall be updated in an ongoing manner and, to the extent practicable, updated reports shall be resubmitted with the annual report under section 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (
22 U.S.C. 5731
).
(2)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to terminate the requirement to update the reports under subsections (a) and (b) upon the termination of the requirement to submit the annual report under section 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (
22 U.S.C. 5731
).
(f)
Form of reports
(1)
In general
Each report under subsection (a) or (b) (including updates under subsection (e)) shall be submitted in unclassified form and made available to the public.
(2)
Classified annex
The explanations and descriptions included in the report under subsection (a)(2) (including updates under subsection (e)) may be expanded on in a classified annex.
(g)
Material contributions related to obligations of China described
For purposes of this section, a foreign person materially contributes to the failure of the Government of China to meet its obligations under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law if the person—
(1)
took action that resulted in the inability of the people of Hong Kong—
(A)
to enjoy freedom of assembly, speech, press, or independent rule of law; or
(B)
to participate in democratic outcomes; or
(2)
otherwise took action that reduces the high degree of autonomy of Hong Kong.
1706.
Sanctions with respect to foreign persons that contravene the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law
(a)
Imposition of sanctions
(1)
In general
On and after the date on which a foreign person is included in the report under section 1705(a) or an update to that report under section 1705(e), the President may impose sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to that foreign person.
(2)
Mandatory sanctions
Not later than one year after the date on which a foreign person is included in the report under section 1705(a) or an update to that report under section 1705(e), the President shall impose sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to that foreign person.
(b)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection with respect to a foreign person are the following:
(1)
Property transactions
The President may, pursuant to such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any person from—
(A)
acquiring, holding, withholding, using, transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or exporting any property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and with respect to which the foreign person has any interest;
(B)
dealing in or exercising any right, power, or privilege with respect to such property; or
(C)
conducting any transaction involving such property.
(2)
Exclusion from the United States and revocation of visa or other documentation
In the case of a foreign person who is an individual, the President may direct the Secretary of State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to exclude from the United States, the foreign person, subject to regulatory exceptions to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable international obligations.
1707.
Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that conduct significant transactions with foreign persons that
contravene the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration or the
Basic Law
(a)
Imposition of sanctions
(1)
Initial sanctions
Not later than one year after the date on which a foreign financial institution is included in the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that report under section 1705(e), the President shall impose not fewer than 5 of the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to that foreign financial institution.
(2)
Expanded sanctions
Not later than two years after the date on which a foreign financial institution is included in the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that report under section 1705(e), the President shall impose each of the sanctions described in subsection (b).
(b)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection with respect to a foreign financial institution are the following:
(1)
Loans from United States financial institutions
The United States Government may prohibit any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the foreign financial institution.
(2)
Prohibition on designation as primary dealer
Neither the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System nor the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may designate, or permit the continuation of any prior designation of, the foreign financial institution as a primary dealer in United States Government debt instruments.
(3)
Prohibition on service as a repository of government funds
The foreign financial institution may not serve as agent of the United States Government or serve as repository for United States Government funds.
(4)
Foreign exchange
The President may, pursuant to such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve the foreign financial institution.
(5)
Banking transactions
The President may, pursuant to such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve the foreign financial institution.
(6)
Property transactions
The President may, pursuant to such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any person from—
(A)
acquiring, holding, withholding, using, transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or exporting any property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and with respect to which the foreign financial institution has any interest;
(B)
dealing in or exercising any right, power, or privilege with respect to such property; or
(C)
conducting any transaction involving such property.
(7)
Restriction on exports, reexports, and transfers
The President, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, may restrict or prohibit exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of commodities, software, and technology subject to the jurisdiction of the United States directly or indirectly to the foreign financial institution.
(8)
Ban on investment in equity or debt
The President may, pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as the President may prescribe, prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the foreign financial institution.
(9)
Exclusion of corporate officers
The President may direct the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security, to exclude from the United States any alien that is determined to be a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the foreign financial institution, subject to regulatory exceptions to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable international obligations.
(10)
Sanctions on principal executive officers
The President may impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the foreign financial institution, or on individuals performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions described in paragraphs (1) through (8) that are applicable.
(c)
Timing of sanctions
The President may impose sanctions required under subsection (a) with respect to a financial institution included in the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that report under section 1705(e) beginning on the day on which the financial institution is included in that report or update.
1708.
Waiver, termination, exceptions, and congressional review process
(a)
National security waiver
Unless a disapproval resolution is enacted under subsection (d), the President may waive the application of sanctions under section 1706 or 1707 with respect to a foreign person or foreign financial institution if the President—
(1)
determines that the waiver is in the national security interest of the United States; and
(2)
submits to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report on the determination and the reasons for the determination.
(b)
Termination of sanctions and removal from report
Unless a disapproval resolution is enacted under subsection (d), the President may terminate the application of sanctions under section 1706 or 1707 with respect to a foreign person or foreign financial institution and remove the foreign person from the report required under section 1705(a) or the foreign financial institution from the report required under section 1705(b), as the case may be, if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that the actions taken by the foreign person or foreign financial institution that led to the imposition of sanctions—
(1)
do not have a significant and lasting negative effect that contravenes the obligations of China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
(2)
are not likely to be repeated in the future; and
(3)
have been reversed or otherwise mitigated through positive countermeasures taken by that foreign person or foreign financial institution.
(c)
Termination of Act
(1)
Report
(A)
In general
Not later than July 1, 2046, the President, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of such other Federal agencies as the President considers appropriate, shall submit to Congress a report evaluating the implementation of this title and sanctions imposed pursuant to this title.
(B)
Elements
The President shall include in the report submitted under subparagraph (A) an assessment of whether this title and the sanctions imposed pursuant to this title should be terminated.
(2)
Termination
This title and the sanctions imposed pursuant to this title shall remain in effect unless a termination resolution is enacted under subsection (e) after July 1, 2047.
(d)
Congressional review
(1)
Resolutions
(A)
Disapproval resolution
In this section, the term
disapproval resolution
means only a joint resolution of either House of Congress—
(i)
the title of which is as follows:
A joint resolution disapproving the waiver or termination of sanctions with respect to a foreign person that contravenes the obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong or a foreign financial institution that conducts a significant transaction with that person.
; and
(ii)
the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is the following:
Congress disapproves of the action under section 1708 of the
Hong Kong Autonomy Act
relating to the application of sanctions imposed with respect to a foreign person that contravenes the obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong, or a foreign financial institution that conducts a significant transaction with that person, on _______ relating to ________.
, with the first blank space being filled with the appropriate date and the second blank space being filled with a short description of the proposed action.
(B)
Termination resolution
In this section, the term
termination resolution
means only a joint resolution of either House of Congress—
(i)
the title of which is as follows:
A joint resolution terminating sanctions with respect to foreign persons that contravene the obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong and foreign financial institutions that conduct significant transactions with those persons.
; and
(ii)
the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is the following:
The
Hong Kong Autonomy Act
and any sanctions imposed pursuant to that Act shall terminate on ____.
, with the blank space being filled with the termination date.
(C)
Covered resolution
In this subsection, the term
covered resolution
means a disapproval resolution or a termination resolution.
(2)
Introduction
A covered resolution may be introduced—
(A)
in the House of Representatives, by the majority leader or the minority leader; and
(B)
in the Senate, by the majority leader (or the majority leader's designee) or the minority leader (or the minority leader's designee).
(3)
Floor consideration in House of Representatives
If a committee of the House of Representatives to which a covered resolution has been referred has not reported the resolution within 10 calendar days after the date of referral, that committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the resolution.
(4)
Consideration in the Senate
(A)
Committee referral
(i)
Disapproval resolution
A disapproval resolution introduced in the Senate shall be—
(I)
referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs if the resolution relates to an action that is not intended to significantly alter United States foreign policy with regard to China; and
(II)
referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations if the resolution relates to an action that is intended to significantly alter United States foreign policy with regard to China.
(ii)
Termination resolution
A termination resolution introduced in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations.
(B)
Reporting and discharge
If a committee to which a covered resolution was referred has not reported the resolution within 10 calendar days after the date of referral of the resolution, that committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the resolution and the resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.
(C)
Proceeding to consideration
Notwithstanding Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any time after the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Relations, as the case may be, reports a covered resolution to the Senate or has been discharged from consideration of such a resolution (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution, and all points of order against the resolution (and against consideration of the resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is not debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order.
(D)
Rulings of the Chair on procedure
Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a covered resolution shall be decided without debate.
(E)
Consideration of veto messages
Debate in the Senate of any veto message with respect to a covered resolution, including all debatable motions and appeals in connection with the resolution, shall be limited to 10 hours, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
(5)
Rules relating to Senate and House of Representatives
(A)
Treatment of Senate resolution in House
In the House of Representatives, the following procedures shall apply to a covered resolution received from the Senate (unless the House has already passed a resolution relating to the same proposed action):
(i)
The resolution shall be referred to the appropriate committees.
(ii)
If a committee to which a resolution has been referred has not reported the resolution within 2 calendar days after the date of referral, that committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the resolution.
(iii)
Beginning on the third legislative day after each committee to which a resolution has been referred reports the resolution to the House or has been discharged from further consideration thereof, it shall be in order to move to proceed to consider the resolution in the House. All points of order against the motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after the House has disposed of a motion to proceed on the resolution. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion. The motion shall not be debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is disposed of shall not be in order.
(iv)
The resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against the resolution and against its consideration are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution to final passage without intervening motion except 2 hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the sponsor of the resolution (or a designee) and an opponent. A motion to reconsider the vote on passage of the resolution shall not be in order.
(B)
Treatment of House resolution in Senate
(i)
Received before passage of Senate resolution
If, before the passage by the Senate of a covered resolution, the Senate receives an identical resolution from the House of Representatives, the following procedures shall apply:
(I)
That resolution shall not be referred to a committee.
(II)
With respect to that resolution—
(aa)
the procedure in the Senate shall be the same as if no resolution had been received from the House of Representatives; but
(bb)
the vote on passage shall be on the resolution from the House of Representatives.
(ii)
Received after passage of Senate resolution
If, following passage of a covered resolution in the Senate, the Senate receives an identical resolution from the House of Representatives, that resolution shall be placed on the appropriate Senate calendar.
(iii)
No Senate companion
If a covered resolution is received from the House of Representatives, and no companion resolution has been introduced in the Senate, the Senate procedures under this subsection shall apply to the resolution from the House of Representatives.
(C)
Application to revenue measures
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the House of Representatives to a covered resolution that is a revenue measure.
(6)
Rules of House of Representatives and Senate
This subsection is enacted by Congress—
(A)
as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(B)
with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
1709.
Implementation; penalties
(a)
Implementation
The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to the extent necessary to carry out this title.
(b)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of section 1706 or 1707 or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
1710.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this title shall be construed as an authorization of military force against China.
1711.
Exception relating to importation of goods
(a)
In general
The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions under this title shall not include the authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
(b)
Good defined
In this section, the term
good
means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
B
Military Construction Authorizations
2001.
Short title
This division may be cited as the
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
2002.
Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law
(a)
Expiration of authorizations after five years
Except as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2025; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been obligated before the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2025; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for fiscal year 2026 for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program.
2003.
Effective date
Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the later of—
(1)
October 1, 2020; or
(2)
the date of the enactment of this Act.
XXI
Army military construction
2101.
Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army: Inside the United States
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Alaska
Fort Wainwright
$114,000,000
Arizona
Yuma Proving Ground
$14,000,000
California
Military Ocean Terminal Concord
$46,000,000
Colorado
Fort Carson
$28,000,000
Georgia
Fort Gillem
$71,000,000
Fort Gordon
$80,000,000
Hawaii
Aliamanu Military Reservation
$71,000,000
Schofield Barracks
$39,000,000
Wheeler Army Airfield
$89,000,000
Louisiana
Fort Polk
$25,000,000
Oklahoma
McAlester AAP
$35,000,000
South Carolina
Fort Jackson
$7,000,000
Virginia
Humphreys Engineer Center
$51,000,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installation outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Army: Outside the United States
State
Installation
Amount
Italy
Casmera Renato Dal Din
$10,200,000
2102.
Family housing
(a)
Construction and acquisition
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:
Army: Family Housing
Country
Installation or Location
Units
Amount
Italy
Vicenza
Family Housing New Construction
$84,100,000
Kwajalein
Kwajalein Atoll
Family Housing Replacement Construction
$32,000,000
(b)
Planning and design
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $3,300,000.
2103.
Authorization of appropriations, Army
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2104.
Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2017 project at Camp Walker, Korea
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2102(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1146) for Camp Walker, Korea, the Secretary of the Army may construct an elevated walkway between two existing parking garages to connect children’s playgrounds using amounts available for Family Housing New Construction, as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (129 Stat. 1290).
XXII
Navy military construction
2201.
Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy: Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
California
Camp Pendleton
$115,530,000
Lemoore
$187,220,000
Point Mugu
$26,700,000
Port Hueneme
$43,500,000
San Diego
$128,500,000
Seal Beach
$46,800,000
Twentynine Palms
$76,500,000
Hawaii
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
$114,900,000
Maine
Kittery
$715,000,000
NCTAMS LANT Detachment Cutler
$26,100,000
Nevada
Fallon
$29,040,000
North Carolina
Cherry Point
$51,900,000
Virginia
Norfolk
$39,800,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Bahrain Island
SW Asia
$68,340,000
El Salvador
Comalapa
$28,000,000
Greece
Souda Bay
$50,180,000
Guam
Andersen Air Force Base
$21,280,000
Joint Region Marianas
$546,550,000
Spain
Rota
$60,110,000
2202.
Family housing
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $5,854,000.
2203.
Improvements to military family housing units
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $37,043,000.
2204.
Authorization of appropriations, Navy
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
XXIII
Air Force military construction
2301.
Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Inside the United States
State
Installation
or Location
Amount
Colorado
United States Air Force Academy
$49,000,000
New Jersey
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
$22,000,000
South Dakota
Ellsworth Air Force Base
$96,000,000
Texas
Joint Base San Antonio
$19,500,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$132,000,000
Virginia
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
$19,500,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
or Location
Amount
Guam
Andersen Air Force Base
$56,000,000
Qatar
Al Udeid
$26,000,000
2302.
Family housing
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $2,969,000.
2303.
Improvements to military family housing units
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $94,245,000.
2304.
Authorization of appropriations, Air Force
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2305.
Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project at Royal Air Force Lakenheath
(a)
In general
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1826) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 2,700 square meter consolidated corrosion control and wash rack facility at such location.
(b)
Increase of amount
The table in section 4601 of such Act is amended in the item relating to a Consolidated Corrosion Control Facility at Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, by striking
20,000,000
and inserting
55,300,000
.
2306.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 projects
(a)
Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2246) for Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 426 square meter non-contained (outdoor) range with covered and heated firing line for construction of an F–35 CATM Range, as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2404).
(b)
Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana
(1)
In general
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2246) for Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct an entrance road and gate complex consistent with the Unified Facilities Criteria relating to entry control facilities and the construction guidelines for the Air Force, in the amount of $48,000,000.
(2)
Details of construction
In constructing the entrance road and gate complex under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 190 square meter visitor control center, a 44 square meter gate house, a 124 square meter privately owned vehicle inspection facility, a 338 square meter truck inspection facility, and a 45 square meter gatehouse.
(3)
Construction in flood plain
Construction under paragraph (1) may be conducted in a flood plain and appropriate mitigation measures shall be included in the project.
(c)
Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2247) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,206 square meter maintenance facility for construction of an F–35A ADAL Conventional Munitions MX, as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2400).
(d)
Force protection and safety
The table in section 4601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2406) is amended in the item relating to Force Protection and Safety, Air Force, Unspecified Worldwide Locations, by striking
35,000
and inserting
50,000
.
2307.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 family housing projects
(a)
Construction and acquisition
Section 2302 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
Using amounts
and inserting
(a)
Planning and design
.—Using amounts
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Construction and acquisition
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a), the Secretary of the Air Force may construct or acquire family housing units (including land, acquisition, and supporting facilities) at the installation, in the number of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Family Housing
Country
Installation or Location
Purpose
Amount
Germany
Spangdahlem Air Base
76 Units
$53,584,000
.
(b)
Funding
Section 2303 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking
$53,584,000
and inserting
$46,638,000
.
2308.
Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 projects
(a)
Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of
Public Law 116–92
) for Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct—
(1)
not more than 4,770 square meters of aircraft support equipment storage for construction of an Auxiliary Ground Equipment Facility, as specified in the funding table in section 4603 of such Act;
(2)
not more than 18,770 square meters of visiting quarters for construction of Dorm Complex Phase 1, as specified in such funding table;
(3)
2,127 square meters of squadron operations and 2,875 square meters of aircraft maintenance unit for construction of Ops/Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #2, as specified in such funding table;
(4)
2,127 square meters of squadron operations and 2,875 square meters of aircraft maintenance unit for construction of Ops/Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #3, as specified in such funding table;
(5)
not more than 3,420 square meters of headquarters for construction of an Operations Group/Maintenance Group HQ, as specified in such funding table;
(6)
not more than 930 square meters of equipment storage for construction of a Security Forces Mobility Storage Facility, as specified in such funding table;
(7)
not more than 7,000 meters of storm water piping, box culverts, underground detention, and grading for surface detention for construction of Site Development, Utilities & Demo Phase 2, as specified in such funding table; and
(8)
not more than 12,471 meters of visiting quarters for construction of Lodging Facilities Phase 1, as specified in such funding table.
(b)
Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of
Public Law 116–92
) for Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct—
(1)
seven 2.5-megawatt diesel engine generators, seven diesel exhaust fluid systems, 15-kilovolt switchgear, two import/export inter-ties, five import-only inter-ties, and 800 square meters of switchgear facility for construction of an Emergency Power Microgrid, as specified in the funding table in section 4603 of such Act;
(2)
2,536 square meters of warehouse for construction of a Logistics Readiness Squadron Campus, as specified in such funding table;
(3)
4,218 square meters of operations center and 1,343 square meters of military working dog kennel for construction of a Security Campus, as specified in such funding table;
(4)
445 square meters of petroleum operations center, 268 square meters of de-icing liquid storage, and 173 square meters of warehouse for construction of a Flightline Hangars Campus, as specified in such funding table; and
(5)
240 square meters of recreation complex and 270 square meters of storage for construction of a Lake Campus, as specified in such funding table.
(c)
Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of
Public Law 116–92
) for Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct up to 6,720 square meters of dormitory for construction of a Dormitory, as specified in the funding table in section 4603 of such Act.
XXIV
Defense Agencies military construction
2401.
Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Alabama
Anniston Army Depot
$18,000,000
Alaska
Fort Greely
$48,000,000
Arizona
Fort Huachuca
$33,728,000
Yuma
$49,500,000
California
Beale Air Force Base
$22,800,000
Colorado
Fort Carson
$15,600,000
CONUS Unspecified
CONUS Unspecified
$14,400,000
Florida
Hurlburt Field
$83,120,000
Kentucky
Fort Knox
$69,310,000
New Mexico
Kirtland Air Force Base
$46,600,000
North Carolina
Fort Bragg
$113,800,000
Ohio
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
$23,500,000
Texas
Fort Hood
$32,700,000
Virginia
Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story
$112,500,000
Washington
Joint Base Lewis-McChord
$21,800,000
Manchester
$82,000,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installation or location outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
Country
Installation or Location
Amount
Japan
Def Fuel Support Point Tsurumi
$49,500,000
2402.
Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment Program projects
(a)
Inside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Alabama
Fort Rucker
$24,000,000
Arkansas
Fort Smith Air National Guard Base
$2,600,000
District of Columbia
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling
$35,933,000
Georgia
Fort Benning
$17,000,000
Mississippi
MTA Camp Shelby
$30,000,000
North Carolina
Fort Bragg
$6,100,000
Ohio
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
$35,000,000
Tennessee
Memphis International Airport
$4,780,000
(b)
Outside the United States
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under
chapter 173
of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
Country
Installation or Location
Amount
Unspecified Worldwide
Unspecified Worldwide Locations
$142,500,000
2403.
Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Limitation on total cost of construction projects
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
XXV
International programs
A
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
2501.
Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously financed by the United States.
2502.
Authorization of appropriations, NATO
(a)
Authorization
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for contributions by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b)
Authority To recognize NATO authorization amounts as budgetary resources for project execution
When the United States is designated as the Host Nation for the purposes of executing a project under the NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), the Department of Defense construction agent may recognize the NATO project authorization amounts as budgetary resources to incur obligations for the purposes of executing the NSIP project.
2503.
Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 138
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking section 2350m and inserting the following new section 2350m:
2350m.
Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
(a)
Authority To execute projects
When the United States is designated as the Host Nation for purposes of executing a project under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (in this section referred to as the
Program
), the Secretary of Defense may accept such designation and carry out such project consistent with the requirements of this section.
(b)
Project funding
The Secretary of Defense may fund authorized expenditures of projects accepted under subsection (a) with—
(1)
contributions under subsection (c);
(2)
appropriations of the Department of Defense for the Program when directed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to apply amounts of such appropriations as part of the share of contributions of the United States for the Program; or
(3)
any combination of amounts described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c)
Authority To accept contributions
(1)
The Secretary of Defense may accept contributions from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the purpose of carrying out a project under subsection (a).
(2)
Contributions accepted under paragraph (1) shall be placed in an account established for the purpose of carrying out the project for which the funds were provided and shall remain available until expended.
(3)
(A)
If contributions are made under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for a project or portion of a project previously completed by the Department of Defense, such contributions shall be credited to—
(i)
the appropriations used for the project or portion thereof, if such appropriations have not yet expired; or
(ii)
the appropriations for the Program, if the appropriations described in clause (i) have expired.
(B)
Funding credited under subparagraph (A) shall merge with and remain available for the same purposes and duration as the appropriations to which credited.
(d)
Obligation authority
The construction agent of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense to execute a project under subsection (a) may recognize the North Atlantic Treaty Organization project authorization amounts as budgetary resources to incur obligations against for the purposes of executing the project.
(e)
Insufficient Contributions
(1)
In the event that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization does not agree to contribute funding for all costs necessary for the Department of Defense to carry out a project under subsection (a), including necessary personnel costs of the construction agent designated by the Department of Defense, contract claims, and any conjunctive funding requirements that exceed the project authorization or standards of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Secretary of Defense, upon determination that completion of the project is in the national interest of the United States, may fund such costs using any funds available in appropriations for the Program.
(2)
The use of funds under paragraph (1) from appropriations for the Program may be in addition to or in place of any other funding sources otherwise available for the purposes for which those funds are used.
(f)
Authorized expenditures defined
In this section, the term
authorized expenditures
means project expenses for which the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has agreed to contribute funding.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II of chapter 138 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2350m and inserting the following new item:
2350m. Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program.
.
(c)
Conforming repeals
(1)
2019
Section 2502 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 2252) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)—
(i)
by striking
(a)
Authorization
.—Funds
and inserting
Funds
; and
(ii)
by striking the second sentence; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
(2)
2020
Section 2502 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a), by striking
(a)
Authorization
.—Funds
and inserting
Funds
; and
(B)
by striking subsection (b).
B
Host Country In-Kind Contributions
2511.
Republic of Korea funded construction projects
Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military construction projects for the installations or locations in the Republic of Korea, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
Component
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Army
Camp Carroll
Site Development
$49,000,000
Army
Camp Humphreys
Attack Reconnaissance Battalion Hangar
$99,000,000
Army
Camp Humphreys
Hot Refuel Point
$35,000,000
Navy
COMROKFLT Naval Base, Busan
Maritime Operations Center
$26,000,000
Air Force
Daegu Air Base
AGE Facility and Parking Apron
$14,000,000
Air Force
Kunsan Air Base
Backup Generator Plant
$19,000,000
Air Force
Osan Air Base
Aircraft Corrosion Control Facility (Phase 3)
$12,000,000
Air Force
Osan Air Base
Child Development Center
$20,000,000
Air Force
Osan Air Base
Relocate Munitions Storage Area Delta (Phase 1)
$84,000,000
Defense-Wide
Camp Humphreys
Elementary School
$58,000,000
2512.
Qatar funded construction projects
Pursuant to agreement with the State of Qatar for required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military construction projects for the installation in the State of Qatar, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
State of Qatar Funded Construction Projects
Component
Installation or Location
Project
Amount
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (A12)
$63,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (B12)
$63,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (D10)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (009)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (007)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Armory/Mount
$7,200,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (A06)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Dining Facility
$14,600,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (BOS)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (B04)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (A04)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Billet (AOS)
$77,000,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
Dining Facility
$14,600,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
MSG (Base Operations Support Facility)
$9,300,000
Air Force
Al Udeid
ITN (Communications Facility)
$3,500,000
XXVI
Guard and Reserve Forces facilities
2601.
Authorized Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army National Guard installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army National Guard
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Arizona
Tucson
$18,100,000
Arkansas
Fort Chaffee
$15,000,000
California
Bakersfield
$9,300,000
Colorado
Peterson Air Force Base
$15,000,000
Indiana
Shelbyville
$12,000,000
Kentucky
Frankfort
$15,000,000
Mississippi
Brandon
$10,400,000
Nebraska
North Platte
$9,300,000
New Jersey
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
$15,000,000
Ohio
Columbus
$15,000,000
Oklahoma
Ardmore
$9,800,000
Oregon
Hermiston
$25,035,000
Puerto Rico
Fort Allen
$37,000,000
South Carolina
Joint Base Charleston
$15,000,000
Tennessee
McMinnville
$11,200,000
Texas
Fort Worth
$13,800,000
Utah
Nephi
$12,000,000
Virgin Islands
St. Croix
$39,400,000
Wisconsin
Appleton
$11,600,000
2602.
Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army Reserve installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Army Reserve
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Florida
Gainesville
$36,000,000
Massachusetts
Devens Reserve Forces Training Area
$8,700,000
North Carolina
Asheville
$24,000,000
Wisconsin
Fort McCoy
$17,100,000
2603.
Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Maryland
Reisterstown
$39,500,000
Minnesota
Naval Operational Support Center Minneapolis
$12,800,000
Utah
Hill Air Force Base
$25,010,000
2604.
Authorized Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air National Guard installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air National Guard
State
Installation or Location
Amount
Alabama
Montgomery Regional Airport
$23,600,000
Guam
Joint Region Marianas
$20,000,000
Maryland
Joint Base Andrews
$9,400,000
North Dakota
Hector International Airport
$17,500,000
Texas
Joint Base San Antonio
$10,800,000
2605.
Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installation inside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Air Force Reserve
State
Installation
Amount
Texas
Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth
$39,200,000
2606.
Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for the costs of acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under
chapter 1803
of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2607.
Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2020 project in Alabama
In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of
Public Law 116–92
) for Anniston Army Depot, Alabama, for construction of an Enlisted Transient Barracks as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act, the Secretary of the Army may construct a training barracks at Fort McClellan, Alabama.
XXVII
Base realignment and closure activities
2701.
Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded through Department of Defense Base Closure Account
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for base realignment and closure activities, including real property acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of
Public Law 101–510
;
10 U.S.C. 2687
note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2140)), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
2702.
Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and closure (BRAC) round
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.
2703.
Plan to finish remediation activities conducted by the Secretary of the Army in Umatilla, Oregon
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to Congress a plan to finish remediation activities conducted by the Secretary in Umatilla, Oregon, by not later than three years after such date of enactment.
XXVIII
Military construction and general provisions
A
Military construction program
2801.
Responsibility of Navy for military construction requirements for certain Fleet Readiness Centers
In the case in which a Fleet Readiness Center is a tenant command aboard an installation of the Marine Corps, the Navy shall be responsible for programming, requesting, and executing any military construction requirements for the Fleet Readiness Center.
2802.
Construction of ground-based strategic deterrent launch facilities and launch centers for Air Force
(a)
Authority to carry out projects
Subject to subsections (b) and (d) and within the amount appropriated for such purpose, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out military construction projects to convert Minuteman III launch facilities and launch centers to ground-based strategic deterrent configurations.
(b)
Master plan
(1)
In general
Prior to the authority under subsection (a) being available for use, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a master plan, broken out by year and location, for the planned launch facilities and launch centers to be converted to ground-based strategic deterrent configurations pursuant to a project under this section.
(2)
Spending plan
The master plan submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a spending plan with estimated amounts to be requested with respect to each planned location for conversion to ground-based strategic deterrent configurations.
(c)
Management of design and construction
The Secretary of the Air Force may select a single, prime contractor to manage the design and construction phases of projects carried out under subsection (a).
(d)
Congressional notification
(1)
Report
When a decision is made to carry out a project under subsection (a) and before carrying out such project, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on that decision.
(2)
Elements
Subject to paragraph (3), the report submitted under paragraph (1) with respect to a project under subsection (a) shall include a justification for carrying out the project and a complete Department of Defense Form 1391 for the project.
(3)
Single submission
The Secretary of the Air Force may group multiple locations at which a project is to be carried out under subsection (a) into a single submission on a Department of Defense Form 1391 to allow all included locations to be considered as a single project.
(e)
Funding
In fiscal year 2021, the Secretary of the Air Force may expend amounts available to the Secretary for research, development, test, and evaluation for the purposes of planning and design to support the projects described in subsection (a).
(f)
Existing authorities
The Secretary of the Air Force shall use existing authorities, as applicable, to carry out this section, including sections 2304 and 2853 of title 10, United States Code.
B
Military family housing
2821.
Prohibition on substandard family housing units
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking section 2830 and inserting the following new section:
2830.
Prohibition on substandard family housing units
The Secretary concerned may not lease a substandard family housing unit to a member of a uniformed service for occupancy by such member.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 2830 and inserting the following new item:
2830. Prohibition on substandard family housing units.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2021.
2822.
Technical corrections to privatized military housing program
(a)
Chief Housing Officer
Section 2890a of title 10, United States Code—
(1)
is amended—
(A)
in subsection (a)(1), by striking
housing units
and inserting
all military housing
; and
(B)
in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
under subchapter IV and this subchapter
and inserting
by the Department of Defense under this chapter
;
(2)
is transferred so as to appear at the end of subchapter III of chapter 169 of such title; and
(3)
is redesignated as section 2870a.
(b)
Privatized housing reform
Subchapter V of chapter 169 of such title is amended—
(1)
in section 2890—
(A)
in subsection (b)(15), by striking
and held in escrow
;
(B)
in subsection (e)(2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
a
before
landlord
; and
(C)
in subsection (f)(2)—
(i)
by striking
executed as
and inserting “executed—
(A)
as
;
(ii)
in subparagraph (A), as designated by clause (i), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(B)
to avoid litigation if the tenant has retained legal counsel or has sought military legal assistance under section 1044 of this title.
;
(2)
in section 2891—
(A)
in subsection (e)—
(i)
in paragraph (1)—
(I)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
unit
after
different housing
;
(II)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
the
before
tenant
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting
the
before
tenant
;
(3)
in section 2891a—
(A)
in subsection (b)(2), by adding a period at the end;
(B)
in subsection (d)(11)—
(i)
by striking
A landlord
and inserting
Upon request by a prospective tenant, a landlord
; and
(ii)
by striking
prospective tenants to housing units
and inserting
the prospective tenant to a housing unit
; and
(C)
in subsection (e)(2)(B) by striking
the any
and inserting
any
;
(4)
in section 2892a—
(A)
by striking
The Secretary concerned
and inserting
(a)
In general
.—The Secretary concerned
;
(B)
by striking
years. In this section
and inserting “years.
(b)
Maintenance defined
In this section
;
(C)
in subsection (a), as designated by subparagraph (A), by striking
housing unit, before the prospective tenant
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting “housing unit—
(1)
not later than five business days before the prospective tenant is asked to sign the lease, a summary of maintenance conducted with respect to that housing unit for the previous seven years; and
(2)
not later than two business days after requested by the prospective tenant, all information regarding maintenance conducted with respect to that housing unit during such period.
; and
(D)
in subsection (b), as designated by subparagraph (B), by striking
such period
and inserting
the period specified in subsection (a)(1)
;
(5)
in section 2893, by striking
propensity for
and inserting
pattern of
; and
(6)
in section 2894—
(A)
in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
The dispute resolution process shall require the installation or regional commander (as the case may be) to record each dispute in the complaint database established under section 2894a of this title.
;
(B)
in subsection (c)—
(i)
in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
24 hours
and inserting
two business days
;
(ii)
in paragraph (3)—
(I)
by inserting
business
before
days
; and
(II)
by inserting
, such office
before
shall complete
;
(iii)
in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
, at a minimum,
before
the following persons
;
(iv)
in paragraph (5)—
(I)
by inserting
calendar
before
days
each place it appears; and
(II)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
30-day period
and inserting
30-calendar-day period
; and
(v)
by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following new paragraph (6):
(6)
Except as provided in paragraph (5)(B), a final decision shall be transmitted to the tenant, landlord, and the installation or regional commander (as the case may be) not later than 30 calendar days after the request was submitted.
; and
(C)
in subsection (e)—
(i)
by striking paragraph (3);
(ii)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
(iii)
in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
, the tenant may
and all that follows through
in which—
and inserting “regarding maintenance guidelines or procedures or habitability, the tenant may request that all or part of the payments described in paragraph (3) for lease of the housing unit be segregated and not used by the property owner, property manager, or landlord pending completion of the dispute resolution process.
(2)
The amount allowed to be withheld under paragraph (1) shall be limited to amounts associated with the period in which—
; and
(iv)
in paragraph (3), as redesignated by clause (ii), by striking
Paragraph (1)
and inserting
This subsection
.
(c)
Reports
Section 2884(c)(10) of such title is amended by striking
specific analysis
and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
list of dispute resolution cases by installation and the final outcome of each such case.
.
(d)
Payment authority
Section 606(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
;
10 U.S.C. 2871
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting
monthly
before
payments
;
(2)
in paragraph (2)(A), by striking
payments to
and all that follows through
subparagraph (C)
and inserting
monthly payments, under such terms and in such amounts as determined by the Secretary, to one of more lessors responsible for underfunded MHPI housing projects identified pursuant to subparagraph (C) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary
; and
(3)
in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting
that
before
require
.
(e)
Suspension of resident energy conservation program
Section 3063(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
on the installation military housing unit
; and
(2)
by striking
on the
and inserting
covered by a program suspended under subsection (a) on that
.
(f)
Clerical amendments
(1)
Chief Housing Officer
(A)
Addition
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 2870
the following new item:
2870a. Chief Housing Officer.
.
(B)
Repeal
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of chapter 169 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2890a.
(2)
Disclosure of personally identifiable information
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2892b and inserting the following new item:
2892b. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally identifiable information in requests for certain maintenance.
.
2823.
Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement recommendations relating to military family housing contained in report by Inspector General of Department of Defense
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the recommendations of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense contained in the report of the Inspector General dated April 30, 2020, and entitled
Evaluation of the DoD's Management of Health and Safety Hazards in Government-Owned and Government-Controlled Military Family Housing
.
C
Project management and oversight reforms
2841.
Promotion of energy resilience and energy security in privatized utility systems
(a)
Utility privatization contract renewals
Section 2688(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by inserting
or the renewal of such a contract
after
paragraph (1)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
A renewal of a contract pursuant to this paragraph may be entered into only within the last 5 years of the existing contract term.
.
(b)
Use of ERCIP funds on privatized utility systems
Section 2914 of such title is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
(c)
Use of certain other authorities
A project under this section may be—
(1)
carried out in conjunction with the authorities provided in subsections (j), and (k) of section 2688 of this title and section 2913 of this title, notwithstanding that the United States does not own a utility system covered by the project; or
(2)
included as a separate requirement in a contract entered into pursuant to title VIII of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (
42 U.S.C. 8287
et seq.).
.
2842.
Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in life-cycle cost for military construction
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 169
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 2815
the following new section:
2816.
Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in life-cycle cost for military construction
(a)
In general
(1)
The Secretary concerned, when evaluating the life-cycle designed cost of a covered military construction project, shall include as a facility requirement the long-term consideration of energy security and energy resilience that would ensure that the resulting facility is capable of continuing to perform its missions, during the life of the facility, in the event of a natural or human-caused disaster, an attack, or any other unplanned event that would otherwise interfere with the ability of the facility to perform its missions.
(2)
A facility requirement under paragraph (1) shall not be weighed, for cost purposes, against other facility requirements in determining the design of the facility.
(b)
Inclusion in the building life-cycle cost program
The Secretary shall include the requirements of subsection (a) in applying the latest version of the building life-cycle cost program, as developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to consider on-site distributed energy assets in a building design for a covered military construction project.
(c)
Covered military construction project defined
(1)
In this section, the term
covered military construction project
means a military construction project for a facility that is used to perform critical functions during a natural or human-caused disaster, an attack, or any other unplanned event.
(2)
For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
facility
includes any of the following:
(A)
Operations centers.
(B)
Nuclear command and control facilities.
(C)
Integrated strategic and tactical warning and attack assessment facilities.
(D)
Continuity of government facilities.
(E)
Missile defense facilities.
(F)
Air defense facilities.
(G)
Hospitals.
(H)
Armories and readiness centers of the National Guard.
(I)
Communications facilities.
(J)
Satellite and missile launch and control facilities.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2815 the following new item:
2816. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in life-cycle cost for military construction.
.
D
Land conveyances
2861.
Renewal of Fallon Range Training Complex land withdrawal and reservation
Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 892), the withdrawal and reservation of lands (known as the Fallon Range Training Complex) made by section 3011(a) of such Act (113 Stat. 885) shall terminate on November 6, 2041.
2862.
Renewal of Nevada Test and Training Range land withdrawal and reservation
Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 892), the withdrawal and reservation of lands (known as the Nevada Test and Training Range) made by section 3011(b) of such Act (113 Stat. 886) shall terminate on November 6, 2041.
2863.
Transfer of land under the administrative jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior within Naval Support Activity Panama City, Florida
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the Secretary of the Navy, without consideration, approximately 1.23 acres of land within Naval Support Activity Panama City, Florida, that are used on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act by the Department of the Navy pursuant to Executive Order 10355 (17 Fed. Reg. 4831; relating to delegating to the Secretary of the Interior the authority of the President to withdraw or reserve lands of the United States for public purposes) and the public land order entitled
Public Land Order 952
(19 Fed. Reg. 2085 (April 10, 1954)).
(b)
Status of Federal land after transfer
Upon completion of a transfer to the Secretary of the Navy of a parcel of land under subsection (a), the parcel received by the Secretary of the Navy shall cease to be public land and shall be treated as property (as defined in section 102(9) of title 40, United States Code) under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy.
(c)
Reimbursement
The Secretary of the Navy shall reimburse the Secretary of the Interior for any costs incurred by the Secretary of the Interior for preparing a legal description of the land to be transferred under subsection (a).
2864.
Land conveyance, Camp Navajo, Arizona
(a)
Conveyance authorized
The Secretary of the Army (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) may convey, without consideration, to the State of Arizona Department of Emergency and Military Affairs (in this section referred to as the
State
), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property (in this section referred to as the
Property
), including any improvements thereon, consisting of not more than 3,000 acres at Camp Navajo, Arizona, for the purpose of permitting the State to use the Property for—
(1)
training the Arizona Army and Air National Guard; and
(2)
defense industrial base economic development purposes that are compatible with the environmental security and primary National Guard training purpose of Camp Navajo.
(b)
Conditions on conveyance
The conveyance authorized by subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Use of revenues
The State shall use all revenues generated by uses of the Property to support the training requirements of the Arizona Army and Air National Guard, to include necessary infrastructure maintenance and capital improvements.
(2)
Audit
The United States Property and Fiscal Office for the State of Arizona shall periodically audit all revenues generated by uses of the Property and all uses of such revenue, and shall provide the audit results to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
(c)
Reversionary interest
(1)
In general
If the Secretary determines at any time that the Property is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), or that the State has not complied with the conditions specified in subsection (b), all right, title, and interest in and to the Property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto the Property.
(2)
Record
A determination by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
(d)
Alternative consideration option
(1)
Consideration option
In lieu of exercising the reversionary interest under subsection (c), the Secretary may accept an offer by the State to pay to the United States an amount equal to the fair market value of the Property, excluding the value of any improvements on the Property constructed without Federal funds after the date of the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), as determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Treatment of consideration received
Consideration received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be deposited in the special account in the Treasury established for the Secretary under subsection (e) of section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, and shall be available to the Secretary for the same uses and subject to the same limitations as provided in that section.
(e)
Payment of cost of conveyance
(1)
Payment required
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall require the State to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation related to the conveyance, and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance.
(B)
Refund of excess amounts
If amounts are collected from the State in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the State.
(2)
Treatment of amounts received
Amounts received as reimbursement under paragraph (1)(A) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if the period of availability for obligations for that appropriation has expired, to the appropriations or fund that is currently available to the Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
(f)
Description of property
The exact acreage and legal description of the Property shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(g)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(h)
Environmental obligations
Nothing in this section shall be construed as alleviating, altering, or affecting the responsibility of the United States for cleanup and remediation of the Property in accordance with—
(1)
the Defense Environmental Restoration Program under section 2701(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code; and
(2)
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (
42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.).
E
Other matters
2881.
Military family readiness considerations in basing decisions
(a)
Taking of considerations into account required
In determining whether to proceed with any basing decision in the United States after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall take into account, among such other factors as such Secretary considers appropriate, the military family readiness considerations specified in subsection (b).
(b)
Military family readiness considerations
The military family readiness considerations specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Interstate portability of professional licensure and certification credentials
The extent to which the State in which the installation subject to the basing decision is or will be located accepts as valid professional licensure and certification credentials obtained in other States, including professional licensure and certification credentials in the following professional fields (and any subfield of such field):
(A)
Accounting.
(B)
Cosmetology.
(C)
Emergency medical service.
(D)
Engineering.
(E)
Law.
(F)
Nursing.
(G)
Physical therapy.
(H)
Psychology.
(I)
Teaching.
(J)
Such other professional fields (and subfields of such fields) as the Secretary of Defense shall specify for purposes of this paragraph.
(2)
Public education
The extent to which public education is available and accessible to dependents of members of the Armed Forces in the military housing area in which the installation subject to the basing decision is or will be located, including with respect to the following:
(A)
Academic performance of schools, including student-to-teacher ratios and learning rates and graduation rates.
(B)
Social climate within schools, including absenteeism rates and suspension rates.
(C)
Availability, accessibility, and quality of services, including pre-kindergarten, counselors and mental health support, student-to-nurse ratios, and services for military dependents with special needs as required by law.
(3)
Housing
The extent to which housing (including family housing) that meets Department of Defense requirements is available and accessible to members of the Armed Forces through the private sector in the military housing area in which the installation subject to the basing decision is or will be located.
(4)
Health care
The extent to which primary healthcare and specialty healthcare is available and accessible to dependents of members of the Armed Forces through the private sector in the local community in which the installation subject to the basing decision is or will be located, including care for military dependents with special needs.
(5)
Intergovernmental support
The extent to which the State in which the installation subject to the basing decision is or will be located, and local governments in the vicinity of the installation, have or will have intergovernmental support agreements with the installation for the effective and efficient provision of public services to the installation.
(6)
Other considerations
Such other considerations in connection with military family readiness as the Secretary of Defense shall specify for purposes of this subsection.
(c)
Analytical framework
The Secretary of a military department shall take into account the considerations specified in subsection (b), among such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate, in determining whether to proceed with a basing decision under subsection (a) using an analytical framework developed by the Secretary for that purpose that uses criteria based on quantitative data available to the Department of Defense and on such reliable quantitative data from sources outside the Department as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d)
Basing decision scorecard
(1)
In general
Each Secretary of a military department shall establish and maintain a scorecard on military installations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, and on States and localities in which such installations are or may be located, relevant to the taking into account of the considerations specified in subsection (b) in determinations of such Secretary on basing decisions as required by subsection (a).
(2)
Update
Each Secretary shall update the scorecard required of such Secretary by this subsection not less frequently than once each year in order to keep the information in such scorecard as current as is practicable.
(3)
Availability to public
A current version of each scorecard under this subsection shall be available to the public through an Internet website of the military department concerned that is accessible to the public.
(e)
Briefings
Not later than April 1 of each of 2021, 2022, and 2023, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on actions taken pursuant to this section, including a description and assessment of the effect of the taking into account of the considerations specified in subsection (b) on particular basing decisions in the United States during the one-year period ending on the date of the briefing.
(f)
Basing decision defined
In this section, the term
basing decision
means any of the following:
(1)
The establishment of a new mission at a military installation.
(2)
The relocation of an existing mission from a military installation to another military installation.
(3)
The establishment of a new military installation.
2882.
Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or demolish protected aircraft shelters in the European theater without creating a similar protection from attack
No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any activity that reduces air base resiliency or demolishes protected aircraft shelters in the European theater, and the Department may not otherwise implement any such activity, without creating a similar protection from attack in the European theater until such time as the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that protected aircraft shelters are not required in the European theater.
2883.
Prohibitions relating to closure or returning to host nation of existing bases under the European Consolidation Initiative
(a)
Prohibition on use of funds
No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any activity that closes or returns to the host nation any existing base under the European Consolidation Initiative.
(b)
Prohibition on closure or return
The Secretary of Defense shall not implement any activity that closes or returns to the host nation any existing base under the European Consolidation Initiative until the Secretary certifies that there is no longer a need for a rotational military presence in the European theater.
2884.
Enhancement of authority to accept conditional gifts of real property on behalf of military museums
Section 2601(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting
a military museum,
after
offered to
.
2885.
Equal treatment of insured depository institutions and credit unions operating on military installations
Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(l)
Treatment of insured depository institutions
(1)
Each covered insured depository institution operating on a military installation within the continental United States may be allotted space or leased land on the military installation without charge for rent or services in the same manner as a credit union organized under State law or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1770
) if space is available.
(2)
Each covered insured depository institution, credit union organized under State law, and Federal credit union operating on a military installation within the continental United States shall be treated equally with respect to policies of the Department of Defense governing the financial terms of leases, logistical support, services, and utilities.
(3)
The Secretary concerned shall not be required to provide no-cost office space or a no-cost land lease to any covered insured depository institution, credit union organized under State law, or Federal credit union.
(4)
In this subsection:
(A)
The term
covered insured depository institution
means an insured depository institution that meets the requirements applicable to a credit union organized under State law or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1770
). The depositors of an insured depository institution shall be considered members for purposes of the application of this subparagraph to that section.
(B)
The term
Federal credit union
has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752
).
(C)
The term
insured depository institution
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813
).
.
2886.
Report on operational aviation units impacted by noise restrictions or noise mitigation measures
(a)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force or the Secretary of the Navy determines that noise restrictions placed on an operational aviation unit under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned prohibit the unit from reaching a combat ready or deployable status or prohibit the maintaining of aircrew currency requirements or required noise mitigation measures become cost prohibitive to the Department of Defense, the Secretary concerned, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth—
(1)
recommendations to preserve or restore the readiness of such unit; and
(2)
appropriate steps to be taken by the Secretary concerned to lower the cost of noise mitigation measures.
(b)
Cost prohibitive
A required noise mitigation measure shall be considered cost prohibitive to the Department of Defense for purposes of subsection (a) if the cost to implement the measure at an installation exceeds 10 percent of the annual budget for the installation for facilities sustainment, restoration, and modernization.
2887.
Transfer of funds for Oklahoma City national memorial endowment fund
Section 7(1) of the Oklahoma City National Memorial Act of 1997 (
16 U.S.C. 450ss–5(1)
) is amended by striking “there is hereby authorized” and inserting “the Secretary may provide, from the National Park Service's national recreation and preservation account, the remainder of”.
XXIX
Overseas contingency operations military construction
2901.
Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out the military construction project for the installation outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
Navy: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
Amount
Spain
Rota
$59,230,000
2902.
Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition projects
The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out the military construction projects for the installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
Air Force: Outside the United States
Country
Installation
Amount
Germany
Ramstein
$36,345,000
Spangdahlem Air Base
$25,824,000
Romania
Campia Turzii
$130,500,000
2903.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for the military construction projects outside the United States authorized by this title as specified in the funding table in section 4602.
2904.
Replenishment of certain military constructions funds
(a)
In general
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 2903 and available as specified in the funding table in section 4602, $3,600,000,000 shall be available for replenishment of funds that were authorized to be appropriated by military construction authorization Acts for fiscal years before fiscal year 2021 for military construction projects authorized by such Acts, but were used instead for military construction projects authorized by section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, in connection with the national emergency along the southern land border of the United States declared in 2019 pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.).
(b)
Replenishment by transfer
(1)
In general
Any amounts available under subsection (a) that are used for replenishment of funds as described in that subsection shall be transferred to the account that was the source of such funds.
(2)
Inapplicability toward transfer limitations
Any transfer of amounts under this subsection shall not count toward any limitation on transfer of Department of Defense funds in section 1001 or 1512 or any other limitation on transfer of Department of funds in law.
(3)
Sunset of authority
The authority to make transfers under this subsection shall terminate on September 30, 2021.
(c)
Use of funds
(1)
In general
Amounts transferred under subsection (b) for replenishment of funds as described in subsection (a) may be used only for military construction projects for which such funds were originally authorized in a military construction authorization Act described in subsection (a).
(2)
No increase in authorized amount of projects
The total amount of funds available for a military construction project described in paragraph (1) may not exceed the current amount authorized for such project by applicable military construction authorization Acts (including this Act). A replenishment of funds under this section for a military construction project shall not operate to increase the authorized amount of the project or the amount authorized to be available for the project.
C
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
XXXI
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
A
National Security Programs and Authorizations
3101.
National Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
(b)
Authorization of new plant projects
From funds referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
Project 21–D–510, HE Synthesis, Formulation, and Production, Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas, $31,000,000.
Project 21–D–511, Savannah River Plutonium Processing Facility, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $241,900,000.
Project 21–D–512, Plutonium Pit Production Project, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, $226,000,000.
Project 21–D–530, KL Steam and Condensate Upgrades, Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $4,000,000.
General Plant Project, U1a.03 Test Bed Facility Improvements, Nevada National Security Side, Nevada, $16,000,000.
General Plant Project, TA–15 DARHT Hydro Vessel Repair Facility, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, $16,500,000.
3102.
Defense environmental cleanup
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
(b)
Authorization of new plant projects
From funds referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup activities, the following new plant project:
Project 21–D–401, Hoisting Capability Project, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad, New Mexico, $10,000,000.
3103.
Other defense activities
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for other defense activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
3104.
Nuclear energy
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for nuclear energy as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
B
Budget of the National Nuclear Security Administration
3111.
Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XVII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2741
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4717.
Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget
(a)
Review of adequacy of Administration budget by Nuclear Weapons Council
(1)
Transmission to Council
The Secretary of Energy shall transmit to the Nuclear Weapons Council (in this section referred to as the
Council
) a copy of the proposed budget request of the Administration for each fiscal year before that budget request is submitted to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in relation to the preparation of the budget of the President to be submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
(2)
Review and determination of adequacy
(A)
Review
The Council shall review each budget request transmitted to the Council under paragraph (1).
(B)
Determination of adequacy
(i)
Inadequate requests
If the Council determines that a budget request for a fiscal year transmitted to the Council under paragraph (1) is inadequate, in whole or in part, to implement the objectives of the Department of Defense with respect to nuclear weapons for that fiscal year, the Council shall submit to the Secretary of Energy a written description of funding levels and specific initiatives that would, in the determination of the Council, make the budget request adequate to implement those objectives.
(ii)
Adequate requests
If the Council determines that a budget request for a fiscal year transmitted to the Council under paragraph (1) is adequate to implement the objectives described in clause (i) for that fiscal year, the Council shall submit to the Secretary of Energy a written statement confirming the adequacy of the request.
(iii)
Records
The Council shall maintain a record of each description submitted under clause (i) and each statement submitted under clause (ii).
(3)
Department of Energy response
(A)
In general
If the Council submits to the Secretary of Energy a written description under paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to the budget request of the Administration for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall include as an appendix to the budget request submitted to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget—
(i)
the funding levels and initiatives identified in the description under paragraph (2)(B)(i); and
(ii)
any additional comments the Secretary considers appropriate.
(B)
Transmission to congress
The Secretary of Energy shall transmit to Congress, with the budget justification materials submitted in support of the Department of Energy budget for a fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), a copy of the appendix described in subparagraph (A).
(b)
Review and certification of Department of Energy budget by Nuclear Weapons Council
(1)
In general
At the time the Secretary of Energy submits the budget request of the Department of Energy for that fiscal year to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in relation to the preparation of the budget of the President, the Secretary shall transmit a copy of the budget request of the Department to the Council.
(2)
Certification
The Council shall—
(A)
review the budget request transmitted to the Council under paragraph (1);
(B)
based on the review under subparagraph (A), make a determination with respect to whether the budget request includes the funding levels and initiatives described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); and
(C)
submit to Congress—
(i)
(I)
a certification that the budget request is adequate to implement the objectives described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); or
(II)
a statement that the budget request is not adequate to implement those objectives; and
(ii)
a copy of the written description submitted by the Council to the Secretary under subsection (a)(2)(B)(i), if any.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4716 the following new item:
Sec. 4717. Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget.
.
C
Personnel matters
3121.
National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System
(a)
In general
Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2441
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
3248.
Alternative personnel system
(a)
In general
The Administrator may adapt the pay banding and performance-based pay adjustment demonstration project carried out by the Administration under the authority provided by section 4703 of title 5, United States Code, into a permanent alternative personnel system for the Administration (to be known as the
National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System
) and implement that system with respect to employees of the Administration.
(b)
Modifications
In adapting the demonstration project described in subsection (a) into a permanent alternative personnel system, the Administrator—
(1)
may, subject to paragraph (2), revise the requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to the extent necessary; and
(2)
shall—
(A)
ensure that the permanent alternative personnel system is carried out in a manner consistent with the final plan for the demonstration project published in the Federal Register on December 21, 2007 (72 Fed. Reg. 72776);
(B)
ensure that significant changes in the system not take effect until revisions to the plan for the demonstration project are approved by the Office of Personnel Management and published in the Federal Register;
(C)
ensure that procedural modifications or clarifications to the final plan for the demonstration project be made through local notification processes;
(D)
authorize, and establish incentives for, employees of the Administration to have rotational assignments among different programs of the Administration, the headquarters and field offices of the Administration, and the management and operating contractors of the Administration; and
(E)
establish requirements for employees of the Administration who are in the permanent alternative personnel system described in subsection (a) to be promoted to senior-level positions in the Administration, including requirements with respect to—
(i)
professional training and continuing education; and
(ii)
a certain number and types of rotational assignments under subparagraph (D), as determined by the Administrator.
(c)
Application to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program
The Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program established pursuant to section 4101 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2511
) and section 3216 of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Navy, apply the alternative personnel system under subsection (a) to—
(1)
all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code); and
(2)
all employees of the Department of Navy who are assigned to the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and are in the excepted service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5, United States Code) (other than such employees in statutory excepted service systems).
.
(b)
Briefing
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on the implementation of section 3248 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added by subsection (a).
(2)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the congressional defense committees;
(B)
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(C)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.
(c)
Conforming amendments
Section 3116 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
Public Law 115–91
; 131 Stat. 1888;
50 U.S.C. 2441
note prec) is amended—
(1)
by striking subsections (a) and (d); and
(2)
by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b), respectively.
(d)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the National Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3247 the following new item:
Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.
.
3122.
Inclusion of certain employees and contractors of Department of Energy in definition of public safety officer for purposes of certain death benefits
Section 1204(9) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10284(9)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (D), by striking
or
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (E)(ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(F)
an employee or contractor of the Department of Energy who—
(i)
is—
(I)
a nuclear materials courier (as defined in section 8331(27) of title 5, United States Code); or
(II)
designated by the Secretary of Energy as a member of an emergency response team; and
(ii)
is performing official duties of the Department, pursuant to a deployment order issued by the Secretary, to protect the public, property, or the interests of the United States by—
(I)
assessing, locating, identifying, securing, rendering safe, or disposing of weapons of mass destruction (as defined in section 1403 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (
50 U.S.C. 2302
)); or
(II)
managing the immediate consequences of a radiological release or exposure.
.
3123.
Reimbursement for liability insurance for nuclear materials couriers
Section 636(c)(2) of division A of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1997 (
Public Law 104–208
; 5 U.S.C. prec. 5941 note) is amended by striking
or under
and all that follows and inserting the following:
a special agent under section 203 of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (
22 U.S.C. 4823
), or a nuclear materials courier (as defined in section 8331(27) of such title 5);
.
3124.
Transportation and moving expenses for immediate family of deceased nuclear materials couriers
Section 5724d(c)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(D)
any nuclear materials courier, as defined in section 8331(27); and
.
3125.
Extension of authority for appointment of certain scientific, engineering, and technical personnel
Section 4601(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2701(c)
) is amended by striking
September 30, 2020
and inserting
September 30, 2021
.
D
Cybersecurity
3131.
Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and subcontractors
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XLV of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2651
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4511.
Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and subcontractors
(a)
Procedures for reporting penetrations
The Administrator shall establish procedures that require each contractor and subcontractor to report to the Chief Information Officer when a covered network of the contractor or subcontractor that meets the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b) is successfully penetrated.
(b)
Establishment of criteria for covered networks
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall, in consultation with the officials specified in paragraph (2), establish criteria for covered networks to be subject to the procedures for reporting penetrations under subsection (a).
(2)
Officials specified
The officials specified in this paragraph are the following officials of the Administration:
(A)
The Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs.
(B)
The Associate Administrator for Acquisition and Project Management.
(C)
The Chief Information Officer.
(D)
Any other official of the Administration the Administrator considers necessary.
(c)
Procedure requirements
(1)
Rapid reporting
(A)
In general
The procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall require each contractor or subcontractor to submit to the Chief Information Officer a report on each successful penetration of a covered network of the contractor or subcontractor that meets the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b) not later than 60 days after the discovery of the successful penetration.
(B)
Elements
Subject to subparagraph (C), each report required by subparagraph (A) with respect to a successful penetration of a covered network of a contractor or subcontractor shall include the following:
(i)
A description of the technique or method used in such penetration.
(ii)
A sample of the malicious software, if discovered and isolated by the contractor or subcontractor, involved in such penetration.
(iii)
A summary of information created by or for the Administration in connection with any program of the Administration that has been potentially compromised as a result of such penetration.
(C)
Avoidance of delays in reporting
If a contractor or subcontractor is not able to obtain all of the information required by subparagraph (B) to be included in a report required by subparagraph (A) by the date that is 60 days after the discovery of a successful penetration of a covered network of the contractor or subcontractor, the contractor or subcontractor shall—
(i)
include in the report all information available as of that date; and
(ii)
provide to the Chief Information Officer the additional information required by subparagraph (B) as the information becomes available.
(2)
Access to equipment and information by Administration personnel
Concurrent with the establishment of the procedures pursuant to subsection (a), the Administrator shall establish procedures to be used if information owned by the Administration was in use during or at risk as a result of the successful penetration of a covered network—
(A)
in order to—
(i)
in the case of a penetration of a covered network of a management and operating contractor, enhance the access of personnel of the Administration to Government-owned equipment and information; and
(ii)
in the case of a penetration of a covered network of a contractor or subcontractor that is not a management and operating contractor, facilitate the access of personnel of the Administration to the equipment and information of the contractor or subcontractor; and
(B)
which shall—
(i)
include mechanisms for personnel of the Administration to, upon request, obtain access to equipment or information of a contractor or subcontractor necessary to conduct forensic analysis in addition to any analysis conducted by the contractor or subcontractor;
(ii)
provide that a contractor or subcontractor is only required to provide access to equipment or information as described in clause (i) to determine whether information created by or for the Administration in connection with any program of the Administration was successfully exfiltrated from a network of the contractor or subcontractor and, if so, what information was exfiltrated; and
(iii)
provide for the reasonable protection of trade secrets, commercial or financial information, and information that can be used to identify a specific person.
(3)
Dissemination of information
The procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall allow for limiting the dissemination of information obtained or derived through such procedures so that such information may be disseminated only to entities—
(A)
with missions that may be affected by such information;
(B)
that may be called upon to assist in the diagnosis, detection, or mitigation of cyber incidents;
(C)
that conduct counterintelligence or law enforcement investigations; or
(D)
for national security purposes, including cyber situational awareness and defense purposes.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Chief Information Officer
The term
Chief Information Officer
means the Associate Administrator for Information Management and Chief Information Officer of the Administration.
(2)
Contractor
The term
contractor
means a private entity that has entered into a contract or contractual action of any kind with the Administration to furnish supplies, equipment, materials, or services of any kind.
(3)
Covered network
The term
covered network
includes any network or information system that accesses, receives, or stores—
(A)
classified information; or
(B)
sensitive unclassified information germane to any program of the Administration, as determined by the Administrator.
(4)
Subcontractor
The term
subcontractor
means a private entity that has entered into a contract or contractual action with a contractor or another subcontractor to furnish supplies, equipment, materials, or services of any kind in connection with another contract in support of any program of the Administration.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4510 the following new item:
Sec. 4511. Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and subcontractors.
.
3132.
Clarification of responsibility for cybersecurity of National Nuclear Security Administration facilities
(a)
Establishment of Chief Information Officer
Subtitle B of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2421
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
3237.
Chief Information Officer
There is within the Administration a Chief Information Officer, who shall be—
(1)
appointed by the Administrator; and
(2)
responsible for the development and implementation of cybersecurity for all facilities of the Administration.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 3232(b)(3) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (
50 U.S.C. 2422(b)(3)
) is amended by striking
and cyber
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the National Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3236 the following new item:
Sec. 3237. Chief Information Officer.
.
E
Defense Environmental Cleanup
3141.
Public statement of environmental liabilities for facilities undergoing defense environmental cleanup
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2581
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4410.
Public statement of environmental liabilities
Each year, at the same time that the Department of Energy submits its annual financial report under section 3516 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Energy shall make available to the public a statement of environmental liabilities, as calculated for the most recent audited financial statement of the Department under section 3515 of that title, for each defense nuclear facility at which defense environmental cleanup activities are occurring.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4409 the following new item:
Sec. 4410. Public statement of environmental liabilities.
.
3142.
Inclusion of missed milestones in future-years defense environmental cleanup plan
Section 4402A(b)(3) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2582A(b)(3)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(D)
For any milestone that has been missed, renegotiated, or postponed, a statement of the current milestone, the original milestone, and any interim milestones.
.
3143.
Classification of defense environmental cleanup as capital asset projects or operations activities
(a)
In general
The Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental Management, in consultation with other appropriate officials of the Department of Energy, shall establish requirements for the classification of defense environmental cleanup projects as capital asset projects or operations activities.
(b)
Report required
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report—
(1)
setting forth the requirements established under subsection (a); and
(2)
assessing whether any ongoing defense environmental cleanup projects should be reclassified based on those requirements.
3144.
Continued analysis of approaches for supplemental treatment of low-activity waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall enter into an arrangement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct a follow-on analysis to the analysis required by section 3134 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (
Public Law 114–328
; 130 Stat. 2769) with respect to approaches for treating the portion of low-activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, Richland, Washington, intended for supplemental treatment.
(b)
Comparison of alternatives to aid decisionmaking
The analysis required by subsection (a) shall be designed, to the greatest extent possible, to provide decisionmakers with the ability to make a direct comparison between approaches for the supplemental treatment of low-activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation based on criteria that are relevant to decisionmaking and most clearly differentiate between approaches.
(c)
Elements
The analysis required by subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the following:
(1)
The most effective potential technology for supplemental treatment of low-activity waste that will produce an effective waste form, including an assessment of the following:
(A)
The maturity and complexity of the technology.
(B)
The extent of previous use of the technology.
(C)
The life cycle costs and duration of use of the technology.
(D)
The effectiveness of the technology with respect to immobilization.
(E)
The performance of the technology expected under permanent disposal.
(2)
The differences among approaches for the supplemental treatment of low-activity waste considered as of the date of the analysis.
(3)
The compliance of such approaches with the technical standards described in section 3134(b)(2)(D) of section 3134 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
(4)
The differences among potential disposal sites for the waste form produced through such treatment, including mitigation of radionuclides, including technetium-99, selenium-79, and iodine-129, on a system level.
(5)
Potential modifications to the design of facilities to enhance performance with respect to disposal of the waste form to account for the following:
(A)
Regulatory compliance.
(B)
Public acceptance.
(C)
Cost.
(D)
Safety.
(E)
The expected radiation dose to maximally exposed individuals over time.
(F)
Differences among disposal environments.
(6)
Approximately how much and what type of pretreatment is needed to meet regulatory requirements regarding long-lived radionuclides and hazardous chemicals to reduce disposal costs for radionuclides described in paragraph (4).
(7)
Whether the radionuclides can be left in the waste form or economically removed and bounded at a system level by the performance assessment of a potential disposal site and, if the radionuclides cannot be left in the waste form, how to account for the secondary waste stream.
(8)
Other relevant factors relating to the technology described in paragraph (1), including the following:
(A)
The costs and risks in delays with respect to tank performance over time.
(B)
Consideration of experience with treatment methods at other sites and commercial facilities.
(C)
Outcomes of the test bed initiative of the Office of Environmental Management at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
(d)
Review, consultation, submission, and limitations
The provision of subsections (c) through (f) of section 3134 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 shall apply with respect to the analysis required by subsection (a) to the same extent and in the same manner that such provisions applied with respect to the analysis required by subsection (a) of such section 3134, except that subsection (e) of such section shall be applied and administered by substituting
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
for
the date of the enactment of this Act
each place it appears.
F
Other Matters
3151.
Modifications to enhanced procurement authority to manage supply chain risk
Section 4806 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2786
) is amended—
(1)
in subsections (a) and (c), by inserting
or special exclusion action
after
covered procurement action
each place it appears;
(2)
by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively;
(3)
by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection (e):
(e)
Delegation of authority
The Secretary may delegate the authority under this section to—
(1)
in the case of the Administration, the Administrator; and
(2)
in the case of any other component of the Department of Energy, the Senior Procurement Executive of the Department.
; and
(4)
in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph (6):
(6)
Special exclusion action
The term
special exclusion action
means an action to prohibit, for a period not to exceed two years, the award of any contracts or subcontracts by the Administration or any other component of the Department of Energy related to any covered system to a source the Secretary determines to represent a supply chain risk.
.
3152.
Prohibition on use of laboratory- or production facility-directed research and development funds for general and administrative overhead costs
Section 4811 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2791
), as amended by section 3152, is further amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Prohibition on use of funds for overhead
Funds provided to a national security laboratory or nuclear weapons production facility for laboratory- or production facility-directed research and development may not be used to cover the costs of general and administrative overhead for the laboratory or facility.
.
3153.
Monitoring of industrial base for nuclear weapons components, subsystems, and materials
(a)
Designation of official
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall designate a senior official within the National Nuclear Security Administration to be responsible for monitoring the industrial base that supports the nuclear weapons components, subsystems, and materials of the Administration, including—
(1)
the consistent monitoring of the current status of the industrial base;
(2)
tracking of industrial base issues over time; and
(3)
proactively identifying gaps or risks in specific areas relating to the industrial base.
(b)
Provision of resources
The Administrator shall ensure that the official designated under subsection (a) is provided with resources sufficient to conduct the monitoring required by that subsection.
(c)
Consultations
The Administrator, acting through the official designated under subsection (a), shall, to the extent practicable and beneficial, in conducting the monitoring required by that subsection, consult with—
(1)
officials of the Department of Defense who are members of the Nuclear Weapons Council established under section 179 of title 10, United States Code;
(2)
officials of the Department of Defense responsible for the defense industrial base; and
(3)
other components of the Department of Energy that rely on similar components, subsystems, or materials.
(d)
Briefings
(1)
Initial briefing
Not later than April 1, 2021, the Administrator shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the designation of the official required by subsection (a), including on—
(A)
the responsibilities assigned to that official; and
(B)
the plan for providing that official with resources sufficient to conduct the monitoring required by subsection (a).
(2)
Subsequent briefings
Not later than April 1, 2022, and annually thereafter through 2024, the Administrator shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on activities carried out under this section that includes an assessment of the progress made by the official designated under subsection (a) in conducting the monitoring required by that subsection.
3154.
Prohibition on use of funds for advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium
(a)
In general
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated for the National Nuclear Security Administration for fiscal year 2021 may be obligated or expended to conduct research and development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium until the following certifications are submitted to the congressional defense committees:
(1)
A joint certification of the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Defense that the determination made by the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Navy pursuant to section 3118(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (
Public Law 114–92
; 129 Stat. 1196) and submitted to the congressional defense committees on March 25, 2018, that the United States should not pursue such research and development, no longer reflects the policy of the United States.
(2)
A certification of the Secretary of the Navy that an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium would not reduce vessel capability, increase expense, or reduce operational availability as a result of refueling requirements.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on activities conducted using amounts made available for fiscal year 2020 for nonproliferation fuels development, including a description of progress made toward technological or nonproliferation goals.
3155.
Authorization of appropriations for W93 nuclear warhead program
In accordance with section 4209(a)(1)(B) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2529(a)(1)(B)
), funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for the W93 nuclear warhead program as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
3156.
Review of future of computing beyond exascale at the National Nuclear Security Administration
(a)
In general
The Administrator for Nuclear Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Science to review the future of computing beyond exascale computing to meet national security needs at the National Nuclear Security Administration.
(b)
Elements
The review required by subsection (a) shall address the following:
(1)
Future computing needs of the National Nuclear Security Administration that exascale computing will not accomplish during the 20 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Computing architectures that potentially can meet those needs, including—
(A)
classical computing architectures employed as of such date of enactment;
(B)
quantum computing architectures and other novel computing architectures;
(C)
hybrid combinations of classical and quantum computing architectures; and
(D)
other architectures as necessary.
(3)
The development of software for the computing architectures described in paragraph (2).
(4)
The maturity of the computing architectures described in paragraph (2) and the software described in paragraph (3), with key obstacles that must be overcome for the employment of such architectures and software.
(5)
The secure industrial base that exists as of the date of the enactment of this Act to meet the unique needs of computing at the National Nuclear Security Administration, including needs with respect to—
(A)
personnel;
(B)
microelectronics; and
(C)
other appropriate matters.
(c)
Information and clearances
The Administrator shall ensure that personnel of the National Academy of Sciences overseeing the implementation of the agreement required by subsection (a) or conducting the review required by that subsection receive, in a timely manner, access to information and necessary security clearances to enable the conduct of the review.
(d)
Report required
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the review required by subsection (a).
(2)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(e)
Exascale computing defined
In this section, the term
exascale computing
means computing through the use of a computing machine that performs near or above 10 to the 18th power floating point operations per second.
3157.
Application of requirement for independent cost estimates and reviews to new nuclear weapon systems
Section 4217(b)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2537(b)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)—
(A)
in clause (i), by inserting
, and each new nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 2A
after
phase 6.2A
;
(B)
in clause (ii), by inserting
, and each new nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 3
after
phase 6.3
; and
(C)
in clause (iii)—
(i)
by inserting
, and each new nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 4
after
phase 6.4
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or 5, as applicable
after
phase 6.5
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
, and each new nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 2
after
phase 6.2
.
3158.
Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation
(a)
In general
Section 3112A of the USEC Privatization Act (
42 U.S.C. 2297h–10a
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
(7)
Suspension Agreement
The term
Suspension Agreement
has the meaning given that term in section 3102(13).
;
(2)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by striking
United States to support
and inserting the following: “United States—
(1)
to support
;
(B)
by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
that reliance on uranium imports raises significant national security concerns;
(3)
to revive and strengthen the supply chain for nuclear fuel produced and used in the United States; and
(4)
to expand production of nuclear fuel in the United States.
; and
(3)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
After
and inserting
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), after
;
(ii)
in subparagraph (A)—
(I)
in clause (vi), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(II)
in clause (vii), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(III)
by adding at the end the following:
(viii)
in calendar year 2021, 422,038 kilograms;
(ix)
in calendar year 2022, 415,573 kilograms;
(x)
in calendar year 2023, 409,445 kilograms;
(xi)
in calendar year 2024, 404,469 kilograms;
(xii)
in calendar year 2025, 399,241 kilograms;
(xiii)
in calendar year 2026, 393,985 kilograms;
(xiv)
in calendar year 2027, 389,656 kilograms;
(xv)
in calendar year 2028, 389,656 kilograms;
(xvi)
in calendar year 2029, 384,905 kilograms;
(xvii)
in calendar year 2030, 375,882 kilograms;
(xviii)
in calendar year 2031, 372,171 kilograms;
(xix)
in calendar year 2032, 364,694 kilograms;
(xx)
in calendar year 2033, 359,353 kilograms;
(xxi)
in calendar year 2034, 337,344 kilograms; and
(xxii)
in calendar year 2035, 333,296 kilograms.
;
(iii)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (D); and
(iv)
by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
(B)
Harmonization with Suspension Agreement
(i)
In general
If, not later than December 31, 2020, the Department of Commerce and the Russian Federation finalize an amendment to the Suspension Agreement to extend the Agreement, the import limitations under subparagraph (A) for a calendar year shall be superceded by any export limitations, including the associated calculation parameters, agreed to by the Department of Commerce as part of that amendment.
(ii)
Termination of Suspension Agreement
If the Suspension Agreement terminates or expires, the import limitations specified in subparagraph (A) shall—
(I)
take effect on the date on which the Suspension Agreement terminates or expires; and
(II)
apply in addition to any antidumping duties imposed pursuant to title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671
et seq.) with respect to low-enriched uranium produced in the Russian Federation.
(C)
Separative work units requirement
Not more than 25 percent of the quantity of low-enriched uranium produced in the Russian Federation and imported under subparagraph (A) in any year may be imported under contracts other than contracts exclusively for separative work units.
;
(B)
in paragraph (3), by striking
United States—
and all that follows and inserting the following:
United States for processing and to be certified for reexportation and not for consumption in the United States.
;
(C)
in paragraph (5)—
(i)
in subparagraph (A)—
(I)
by striking
reference data
and all that follows through
2019
and inserting the following:
lower scenario data in the document of the World Nuclear Association entitled
Nuclear Fuel Report: Global Scenarios for Demand and Supply Availability 2019–2040
. In each of calendar years 2023, 2027, and 2031
; and
(II)
by striking
report or a subsequent report
and inserting
document
;
(ii)
by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subpagraphs (C) and (D), respectively;
(iii)
by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
(B)
Report required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and every 3 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
(i)
a recommendation on the use of all publicly available data to ensure accurate forecasting by scenario data to comport to actual demand for low-enriched uranium for nuclear reactors in the United States; and
(ii)
an identification of the steps to be taken to adjust the import limitations described in paragraph (2)(A) based on the most accurate scenario data.
; and
(iv)
in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by clause (ii), by striking
subparagraph (B)
and inserting
subparagraph (D)
;
(D)
in paragraph (6), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
the adjustment under paragraph (5)(A)
and inserting
any adjustment under paragraph (2)(B) or (5)(A)
;
(E)
in paragraph (7)(A), by striking
0.3 percent
and inserting
0.22 percent
;
(F)
in paragraph (9), by striking
2020
and inserting
2035
;
(G)
by striking
(2)(B)
each place it appears and inserting
(2)(D)
; and
(H)
in paragraph (12)(B), by inserting
or the Suspension Agreement
after
the Russian HEU Agreement
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) apply with respect to uranium imported from the Russian Federation on or after January 1, 2021.
3159.
Integration of stockpile stewardship and nonproliferation missions
(a)
Sense of senate
It is the sense of the Senate that, in recognition of the close relationships between the nuclear weapons expertise and infrastructure of the national security laboratories (as defined in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2501
)), those laboratories should continue to apply their capabilities to assessing, understanding, and countering current and emerging nuclear threats, including the nuclear capabilities of adversaries of the United States.
(b)
Integration
The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that the capabilities of the stockpile stewardship program under section 4201 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2521
) are available to assess proliferation challenges, nuclear capabilities of adversaries of the United States, and related safeguards.
3160.
Technology development and integration program
The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a technology development and integration program to improve the safety and security of the nuclear weapons stockpile, and to prevent proliferation, through research and development, engineering, and integration of technologies applicable to multiple weapons systems in the stockpile.
3161.
Advanced manufacturing development program
The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish an advanced manufacturing development program to focus on the development, demonstration, and deployment of next-generation processes and manufacturing tools to ensure that the nuclear weapons stockpile is safe and secure.
3162.
Materials science program
The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a materials science program to develop new materials to replace materials that are no longer available for weapons sustainment.
3163.
Modifications to Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and High Yield Program
(a)
In general
The Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and High Yield Program of the National Nuclear Security Administration (in this section referred to as the
Program
) shall provide the scientific understanding and experimental capabilities required to validate the safety and effectiveness of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
(b)
Recommendations relating to high energy density physics
(1)
Establishment of working group
The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a working group to identify and implement any recommendations issued by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine as required by section 3137 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
(2)
Report required
Not later than March 31, 2021, the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the timelines for completing implementation of the recommendations described in paragraph (1).
3164.
Earned value management program for life extension programs
(a)
In general
Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2521
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
4223.
Earned value management program for life extension programs
(a)
In general
The Administrator shall establish an earned value management program to establish earned value management standards—
(1)
to ensure specific benchmarks are set for technology readiness for life extension programs; and
(2)
to ensure that appropriate risk mitigation measures are taken to meet the cost and schedule requirements of such programs.
(b)
Review of contractor earned value management systems
The Administrator shall enter into an arrangement with an independent entity under which that entity shall review and determine whether the earned value management standards of contractors of the Administration for life extension programs are consistent with the standards established under subsection (a).
(c)
Reconciliation of cost estimates
The Administrator shall ensure that key decisions of the Administration concerning project milestones in life extension programs are based on a reconciliation of cost estimates of the Administration with any independent cost estimates conducted by the Director of Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4222 the following new item:
Sec. 4223. Earned value management program for life extension programs.
.
3165.
Use of high performance computing capabilities for COVID–19 research
The Secretary of Energy shall make the unclassified high performance computing capabilities of the Department of Energy available for research relating to the coronavirus disease 2019 (commonly known as
COVID–19
) so long as and to the extent that doing so does not negatively affect the stockpile stewardship mission of the National Nuclear Security Administration.
3166.
Availability of stockpile responsiveness funds for projects to reduce time necessary to execute a nuclear test
From amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 3101 and available, as specified in the funding table in section 4701, for the Stockpile Responsiveness Program under section 4220 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (
50 U.S.C. 2538b
), not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available to carry out projects related to reducing the time required to execute a nuclear test if necessary.
3167.
Sense of the Senate on extension of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
a secure nuclear fuel supply chain is essential to the economic and national security of the United States;
(2)
the United States should—
(A)
expeditiously complete negotiation of an extension of the Agreement Suspending the Antidumping Investigation on Uranium from the Russian Federation (commonly referred to as the
Russian Suspension Agreement
); or
(B)
if an agreement to extend the Russian Suspension Agreement cannot be reached, complete the antidumping investigation under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1671
et seq.) with respect to imports of uranium from the Russian Federation—
(i)
to avoid unfair trade in uranium and maintain a nuclear fuel supply chain in the United States, consistent with the national security and nonproliferation goals of the United States; and
(ii)
to protect the United States nuclear fuel supply chain from the continued manipulation of the global and United States uranium markets by the Russian Federation and Russian-influenced competitors;
(3)
a renegotiated, long-term extension of the Russian Suspension Agreement can prevent adversaries of the United States from monopolizing the nuclear fuel supply chain;
(4)
as was done in 2008, upon completion of a new negotiated long-term extension of the Russian Suspension Agreement, Congress should enact legislation to codify the terms of extension into law to ensure long-term stability for the domestic nuclear fuel supply chain; and
(5)
if the negotiations to extend the Russian Suspension Agreement prove unsuccessful, Congress should be prepared to enact legislation to prevent the manipulation by the Russian Federation of global uranium markets and potential domination by the Russian Federation of the United States uranium market.
XXXII
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
3201.
Authorization
There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021, $28,836,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286
et seq.).
3202.
Nonpublic collaborative discussions by Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
Section 313 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286b
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(k)
Nonpublic collaborative discussions
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding section 552b of title 5, United States Code, a quorum of the members of the Board may hold a meeting that is not open to public observation to discuss official business of the Board if—
(A)
no formal or informal vote or other official action is taken at the meeting;
(B)
each individual present at the meeting is a member or an employee of the Board;
(C)
at least one member of the Board from each political party is present at the meeting, unless all members of the Board are of the same political party at the time of the meeting; and
(D)
the general counsel of the Board, or a designee of the general counsel, is present at the meeting.
(2)
Disclosure of nonpublic collaborative discussions
(A)
In general
Except as provided by subparagraph (B), not later than two business days after the conclusion of a meeting described in paragraph (1), the Board shall make available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public—
(i)
a list of the individuals present at the meeting; and
(ii)
a summary of the matters, including key issues, discussed at the meeting, except for any matter the Board properly determines may be withheld from the public under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States Code.
(B)
Information about matters withheld from public
If the Board properly determines under subparagraph (A)(ii) that a matter may be withheld from the public under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States Code, the Board shall include in the summary required by that subparagraph as much general information as possible with respect to the matter.
(3)
Rules of construction
Nothing in this subsection may be construed—
(A)
to limit the applicability of section 552b of title 5, United States Code, with respect to—
(i)
a meeting of the members of the Board other than a meeting described in paragraph (1); or
(ii)
any information that is proposed to be withheld from the public under paragraph (2)(A)(ii); or
(B)
to authorize the Board to withhold from any individual any record that is accessible to that individual under section 552a of title 5, United States Code.
.
3203.
Improvements to operations of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
(a)
Mission of Board
Section 312(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286a(a)
) is amended by striking
employees and contractors at such facilities
and inserting
workers at such facilities conducting activities covered by part 830 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)
.
(b)
Cooperation
Section 314(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2286c(a)
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
Except
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
For purposes of this subsection, the term
unfettered access
, with respect to a facility or personnel of or information related to a facility, means access equivalent to the access to the facility, personnel, or information provided to a regular employee of the facility, after proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
.
XXXV
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
3501.
Maritime Administration
Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
109.
Maritime Administration
(a)
Organization and mission
The Maritime Administration is an administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant maritime industry of the United States.
(b)
Maritime Administrator
The head of the Maritime Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
(c)
Deputy Maritime Administrator
The Maritime Administration shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
(d)
Duties and powers vested in Secretary
All duties and powers of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
(e)
Regional offices
The Maritime Administration shall have regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
(f)
Interagency and industry relations
The Secretary shall establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with representative trade organizations throughout the United States, concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of securing preference to vessels of the United States for the transportation of those commodities.
(g)
Detailing officers from Armed Forces
To assist the Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed by the officer during the detail.
(h)
Contracts, cooperative agreements, and audits
(1)
Contracts and cooperative agreements
In the same manner that a private corporation may make a contract within the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States Government and disburse amounts to—
(A)
carry out the Secretary's duties and powers under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all other Maritime Administration programs; and
(B)
protect, preserve, and improve collateral held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
(2)
Audits
The financial transactions of the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this section or subtitle V of title 46.
(i)
Grant administrative expenses
Except as otherwise provided by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 percent.
(j)
Authorization of appropriations
(1)
In general
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
(2)
Limitations
Only those amounts specifically authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the Maritime Administration for—
(A)
acquisition, construction, or reconstruction of vessels;
(B)
construction-differential subsidies incident to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of vessels;
(C)
costs of national defense features;
(D)
payments of obligations incurred for operating-differential subsidies;
(E)
expenses necessary for research and development activities, including reimbursement of the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
(F)
the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
(G)
National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
(H)
expenses necessary to carry out part B of subtitle V of title 46; and
(I)
other operations and training expenses related to the development of waterborne transportation systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, and general administration.
.
D
Funding Tables
4001.
Authorization of amounts in funding tables
(a)
In general
Whenever a funding table in this division specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations.
(b)
Merit-based decisions
A decision to commit, obligate, or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
(1)
be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
(2)
comply with other applicable provisions of law.
(c)
Relationship to transfer and programming authority
An amount specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation accounts.
(d)
Applicability to classified annex
This section applies to any classified annex that accompanies this Act.
(e)
Oral written communications
No oral or written communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.
XLI
Procurement
4101.
PROCUREMENT
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In
Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
FIXED WING
2
MQ–1 UAV
0
165,000
Reverse planned temporary procurement
pause
[165,000]
3
FUTURE UAS
FAMILY
1,100
1,100
4
RQ–11
(RAVEN)
20,851
20,851
ROTARY
7
AH–64 APACHE BLOCK
IIIA REMAN
792,027
792,027
8
AH–64 APACHE BLOCK
IIIA REMAN AP
169,460
169,460
11
UH–60 BLACKHAWK M
MODEL (MYP)
742,998
742,998
12
UH–60 BLACKHAWK M
MODEL (MYP) AP
87,427
87,427
13
UH–60 BLACK HAWK L
AND V MODELS
172,797
172,797
14
CH–47
HELICOPTER
160,750
160,750
15
CH–47 HELICOPTER
AP
18,372
18,372
MODIFICATION OF
AIRCRAFT
18
UNIVERSAL GROUND
CONTROL EQUIPMENT (UAS)
7,509
7,509
19
GRAY EAGLE
MODS2
16,280
16,280
20
MULTI SENSOR ABN
RECON (MIP)
35,864
35,864
21
AH–64 MODS
118,316
118,316
22
CH–47 CARGO
HELICOPTER MODS (MYP)
15,548
35,548
IVCS
[20,000]
23
GRCS SEMA MODS
(MIP)
2,947
2,947
24
ARL SEMA MODS
(MIP)
9,598
9,598
25
EMARSS SEMA MODS
(MIP)
2,452
2,452
26
UTILITY/CARGO
AIRPLANE MODS
13,868
13,868
27
UTILITY HELICOPTER
MODS
25,842
25,842
28
NETWORK AND MISSION
PLAN
77,432
77,432
29
COMMS, NAV
SURVEILLANCE
101,355
101,355
31
AVIATION ASSURED
PNT
54,609
54,609
32
GATM ROLLUP
12,180
12,180
34
UAS MODS
4,204
4,204
GROUND SUPPORT
AVIONICS
35
AIRCRAFT
SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT
49,455
49,455
36
SURVIVABILITY
CM
8,035
8,035
37
CMWS
10,567
10,567
38
COMMON INFRARED
COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
237,467
237,467
OTHER SUPPORT
39
AVIONICS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
1,789
1,789
40
COMMON GROUND
EQUIPMENT
17,584
17,584
41
AIRCREW INTEGRATED
SYSTEMS
48,265
48,265
42
AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROL
26,408
26,408
44
LAUNCHER, 2.75
ROCKET
2,256
2,256
45
LAUNCHER GUIDED
MISSILE: LONGBOW HELLFIRE XM2
8,982
8,982
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
3,074,594
3,259,594
MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE
SYSTEM
2
M-SHORAD—PROCUREMENT
378,654
378,654
3
MSE MISSILE
603,188
779,773
Transfer missiles from EDI OCO
[176,585]
4
PRECISION STRIKE
MISSILE (PRSM)
49,941
49,941
5
INDIRECT FIRE
PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2–I
106,261
65,761
Army-identified funding early to need
[–40,500]
AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE
SYSTEM
6
HELLFIRE SYS
SUMMARY
91,225
91,225
7
JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND
MSLS (JAGM)
213,397
213,397
8
LONG RANGE
PRECISION MUNITION
45,307
45,307
ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE
SYS
9
JAVELIN (AAWS-M)
SYSTEM SUMMARY
190,325
190,325
10
TOW 2 SYSTEM
SUMMARY
121,074
121,074
11
GUIDED MLRS ROCKET
(GMLRS)
850,157
850,157
12
MLRS REDUCED RANGE
PRACTICE ROCKETS (RRPR)
30,836
30,836
13
HIGH MOBILITY
ARTILLERY ROCKET SYSTEM (HIMARS
41,226
41,226
MODIFICATIONS
16
PATRIOT
MODS
278,050
278,050
17
ATACMS MODS
141,690
141,690
20
AVENGER
MODS
13,942
13,942
21
ITAS/TOW
MODS
5,666
5,666
22
MLRS MODS
310,419
310,419
23
HIMARS
MODIFICATIONS
6,081
6,081
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
24
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
5,090
5,090
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
FACILITIES
25
AIR DEFENSE
TARGETS
8,978
8,978
TOTAL MISSILE
PROCUREMENT, ARMY
3,491,507
3,627,592
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
ARMY
TRACKED COMBAT
VEHICLES
2
ARMORED MULTI
PURPOSE VEHICLE (AMPV)
192,971
172,971
Program decrease
[–20,000]
MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
VEHICLES
4
STRYKER
UPGRADE
847,212
847,212
5
BRADLEY PROGRAM
(MOD)
493,109
473,109
UBIS slip
[–20,000]
6
M109 FOV
MODIFICATIONS
26,893
26,893
7
PALADIN INTEGRATED
MANAGEMENT (PIM)
435,825
435,825
9
ASSAULT BRIDGE
(MOD)
5,074
5,074
10
ASSAULT BREACHER
VEHICLE
19,500
19,500
11
M88 FOV
MODS
18,382
13,382
Unjustified growth
[–5,000]
12
JOINT ASSAULT
BRIDGE
72,178
61,678
IOTE and testing delay
[–10,500]
13
M1 ABRAMS TANK
(MOD)
392,013
392,013
14
ABRAMS UPGRADE
PROGRAM
1,033,253
1,033,253
WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT
VEHICLES
16
MULTI-ROLE
ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-PERSONNEL WEAPON S
17,864
17,864
18
MORTAR
SYSTEMS
10,288
10,288
19
XM320 GRENADE
LAUNCHER MODULE (GLM)
5,969
5,969
20
PRECISION SNIPER
RIFLE
10,137
10,137
21
COMPACT
SEMI-AUTOMATIC SNIPER SYSTEM
999
999
22
CARBINE
7,411
7,411
23
NEXT GENERATION
SQUAD WEAPON
35,822
35,822
24
COMMON REMOTELY
OPERATED WEAPONS STATION
24,534
24,534
25
HANDGUN
4,662
4,662
MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
VEH
26
MK–19 GRENADE
MACHINE GUN MODS
6,444
6,444
27
M777 MODS
10,983
10,983
28
M4 CARBINE
MODS
4,824
4,824
31
M240 MEDIUM MACHINE
GUN MODS
6,385
6,385
32
SNIPER RIFLES
MODIFICATIONS
1,898
1,898
33
M119
MODIFICATIONS
2,009
2,009
34
MORTAR
MODIFICATION
1,689
1,689
35
MODIFICATIONS LESS
THAN $5.0M (WOCV-WTCV)
2,604
2,604
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
FACILITIES
36
ITEMS LESS THAN
$5.0M (WOCV-WTCV)
2,763
2,763
37
PRODUCTION BASE
SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV)
3,045
3,045
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
3,696,740
3,641,240
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,
ARMY
SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
AMMUNITION
1
CTG, 5.56MM, ALL
TYPES
68,472
68,472
2
CTG, 7.62MM, ALL
TYPES
109,933
109,933
3
NEXT GENERATION
SQUAD WEAPON AMMUNITION
11,988
11,988
4
CTG, HANDGUN, ALL
TYPES
853
853
5
CTG, .50 CAL, ALL
TYPES
58,280
58,280
6
CTG, 20MM, ALL
TYPES
31,708
31,708
7
CTG, 25MM, ALL
TYPES
9,111
9,111
8
CTG, 30MM, ALL
TYPES
58,172
58,172
9
CTG, 40MM, ALL
TYPES
114,638
114,638
MORTAR AMMUNITION
10
60MM MORTAR, ALL
TYPES
31,222
31,222
11
81MM MORTAR, ALL
TYPES
42,857
42,857
12
120MM MORTAR, ALL
TYPES
107,762
107,762
TANK AMMUNITION
13
CARTRIDGES, TANK,
105MM AND 120MM, ALL TYPES
233,444
233,444
ARTILLERY
AMMUNITION
14
ARTILLERY
CARTRIDGES, 75MM & 105MM, ALL TYPES
35,963
35,963
15
ARTILLERY
PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL TYPES
293,692
293,692
16
PROJ 155MM EXTENDED
RANGE M982
69,159
69,159
17
ARTILLERY
PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND PRIMERS, ALL
232,913
232,913
MINES
18
MINES &
CLEARING CHARGES, ALL TYPES
65,278
65,278
19
CLOSE TERRAIN
SHAPING OBSTACLE
4,995
4,995
ROCKETS
20
SHOULDER LAUNCHED
MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES
69,112
69,112
21
ROCKET, HYDRA 70,
ALL TYPES
125,915
125,915
OTHER AMMUNITION
22
CAD/PAD, ALL
TYPES
8,891
8,891
23
DEMOLITION
MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES
54,043
54,043
24
GRENADES, ALL
TYPES
28,931
28,931
25
SIGNALS, ALL
TYPES
27,036
27,036
26
SIMULATORS, ALL
TYPES
10,253
10,253
MISCELLANEOUS
27
AMMO COMPONENTS,
ALL TYPES
3,476
3,476
29
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION (AMMO)
10,569
10,569
30
AMMUNITION PECULIAR
EQUIPMENT
12,338
12,338
31
FIRST DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION (AMMO)
15,908
15,908
32
CLOSEOUT
LIABILITIES
99
99
PRODUCTION BASE
SUPPORT
33
INDUSTRIAL
FACILITIES
592,224
592,224
34
CONVENTIONAL
MUNITIONS DEMILITARIZATION
235,112
235,112
35
ARMS
INITIATIVE
3,369
3,369
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
2,777,716
2,777,716
OTHER PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
TACTICAL VEHICLES
1
TACTICAL
TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS
12,986
12,986
2
SEMITRAILERS,
FLATBED:
31,443
31,443
3
SEMITRAILERS,
TANKERS
17,082
17,082
4
HI MOB MULTI-PURP
WHLD VEH (HMMWV)
44,795
44,795
5
GROUND MOBILITY
VEHICLES (GMV)
37,932
37,932
8
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICL
894,414
894,414
9
TRUCK, DUMP, 20T
(CCE)
29,368
29,368
10
FAMILY OF MEDIUM
TACTICAL VEH (FMTV)
95,092
95,092
11
FAMILY OF COLD
WEATHER ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (C
999
999
12
FIRETRUCKS &
ASSOCIATED FIREFIGHTING EQUIP
27,687
27,687
14
PLS ESP
21,969
21,969
15
HVY EXPANDED MOBILE
TACTICAL TRUCK EXT SERV
65,635
65,635
16
HMMWV
RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM
5,927
5,927
17
TACTICAL WHEELED
VEHICLE PROTECTION KITS
36,497
36,497
18
MODIFICATION OF IN
SVC EQUIP
114,977
114,977
NON-TACTICAL
VEHICLES
20
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
1,246
1,246
21
NONTACTICAL
VEHICLES, OTHER
19,870
19,870
COMM—JOINT
COMMUNICATIONS
22
SIGNAL
MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
160,469
160,469
23
TACTICAL NETWORK
TECHNOLOGY MOD IN SVC
360,379
365,379
MDTF scalable node equipment
[5,000]
24
SITUATION
INFORMATION TRANSPORT
63,396
63,396
26
JCSE EQUIPMENT
(USRDECOM)
5,170
5,170
COMM—SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS
29
DEFENSE ENTERPRISE
WIDEBAND SATCOM SYSTEMS
101,498
101,498
30
TRANSPORTABLE
TACTICAL COMMAND COMMUNICATIONS
72,450
74,850
AFRICOM force protection upgrades
[1,000]
MDTF support requirements
[1,400]
31
SHF TERM
13,173
13,173
32
ASSURED
POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING
134,928
134,928
33
SMART-T
(SPACE)
8,611
8,611
34
GLOBAL BRDCST
SVC—GBS
8,191
8,191
COMM—C3 SYSTEM
36
COE TACTICAL SERVER
INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI)
94,871
94,871
COMM—COMBAT
COMMUNICATIONS
37
HANDHELD MANPACK
SMALL FORM FIT (HMS)
550,848
552,348
AFRICOM force protection upgrades
[1,500]
38
RADIO TERMINAL SET,
MIDS LVT(2)
8,237
8,237
41
SPIDER FAMILY OF
NETWORKED MUNITIONS INCR
13,967
0
Program cancelation
[–13,967]
43
UNIFIED COMMAND
SUITE
19,579
19,579
44
COTS COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT
94,156
94,156
45
FAMILY OF MED COMM
FOR COMBAT CASUALTY CARE
18,313
18,313
46
ARMY COMMUNICATIONS
& ELECTRONICS
51,480
51,480
COMM—INTELLIGENCE
COMM
48
CI AUTOMATION
ARCHITECTURE (MIP)
13,146
13,146
49
DEFENSE MILITARY
DECEPTION INITIATIVE
5,624
5,624
INFORMATION
SECURITY
51
INFORMATION SYSTEM
SECURITY PROGRAM-ISSP
4,596
4,596
52
COMMUNICATIONS
SECURITY (COMSEC)
159,272
159,272
53
DEFENSIVE CYBER
OPERATIONS
54,753
55,653
MDTF cyber defense and EW tools
[900]
54
INSIDER THREAT
PROGRAM—UNIT ACTIVITY MONITO
1,760
1,760
56
ITEMS LESS THAN $5M
(INFO SECURITY)
260
260
COMM—LONG HAUL
COMMUNICATIONS
57
BASE SUPPORT
COMMUNICATIONS
29,761
30,761
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades
[1,000]
COMM—BASE
COMMUNICATIONS
58
INFORMATION
SYSTEMS
147,696
147,696
59
EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
4,900
4,900
60
HOME STATION
MISSION COMMAND CENTERS (HSMCC)
15,227
15,227
61
JOINT INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT (JIE)
3,177
3,177
62
INSTALLATION INFO
INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM
300,035
300,035
ELECT EQUIP—TACT INT REL ACT
(TIARA)
65
JTT/CIBS-M
(MIP)
5,304
5,304
66
TERRESTRIAL LAYER
SYSTEMS (TLS) (MIP)
8,081
8,081
68
DCGS-A
(MIP)
151,886
151,886
70
TROJAN
(MIP)
17,593
17,593
71
MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP
(INTEL SPT) (MIP)
28,558
28,558
73
BIOMETRIC TACTICAL
COLLECTION DEVICES (MIP)
999
999
ELECT EQUIP—ELECTRONIC WARFARE
(EW)
75
LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER
MORTAR RADAR
5,332
5,332
76
EW PLANNING &
MANAGEMENT TOOLS (EWPMT)
7,849
7,849
77
AIR VIGILANCE (AV)
(MIP)
8,160
8,160
79
MULTI-FUNCTION
ELECTRONIC WARFARE (MFEW) SYST
8,669
8,669
81
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES
0
13,400
MDTF advanced intel systems remote
collection
[13,400]
82
CI MODERNIZATION
(MIP)
300
300
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
SURV)
83
SENTINEL
MODS
58,884
58,884
84
NIGHT VISION
DEVICES
1,127,375
1,127,375
86
SMALL TACTICAL
OPTICAL RIFLE MOUNTED MLRF
13,954
13,954
88
INDIRECT FIRE
PROTECTION FAMILY OF SYSTEMS
10,069
14,069
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades
[4,000]
89
FAMILY OF WEAPON
SIGHTS (FWS)
133,590
133,590
91
JOINT BATTLE
COMMAND—PLATFORM (JBC-P)
243,850
243,850
92
JOINT EFFECTS
TARGETING SYSTEM (JETS)
69,641
69,641
94
COMPUTER
BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32
7,509
7,509
95
MORTAR FIRE CONTROL
SYSTEM
3,800
3,800
96
MORTAR FIRE CONTROL
SYSTEMS MODIFICATIONS
7,292
7,292
97
COUNTERFIRE
RADARS
72,421
72,421
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL C2
SYSTEMS
98
ARMY COMMAND POST
INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE (
49,947
49,947
99
FIRE SUPPORT C2
FAMILY
9,390
9,390
100
AIR & MSL
DEFENSE PLANNING & CONTROL SYS
47,374
47,374
101
IAMD BATTLE COMMAND
SYSTEM
201,587
201,587
102
LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE
SUPPORT (LCSS)
4,495
4,495
103
NETWORK MANAGEMENT
INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE
18,651
18,651
105
GLOBAL COMBAT
SUPPORT SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A)
2,792
2,792
106
INTEGRATED
PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP
9,071
9,071
107
RECONNAISSANCE AND
SURVEYING INSTRUMENT SET
12,117
12,117
108
MOD OF IN-SVC
EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE)
3,004
3,004
ELECT
EQUIP—AUTOMATION
109
ARMY TRAINING
MODERNIZATION
14,574
14,574
110
AUTOMATED DATA
PROCESSING EQUIP
140,619
140,619
111
GENERAL FUND
ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEMS FAM
4,448
4,448
112
HIGH PERF COMPUTING
MOD PGM (HPCMP)
68,405
68,405
113
CONTRACT WRITING
SYSTEM
8,459
8,459
114
CSS
COMMUNICATIONS
57,651
57,651
115
RESERVE COMPONENT
AUTOMATION SYS (RCAS)
14,848
14,848
ELECT EQUIP—AUDIO VISUAL SYS
(A/V)
117
ITEMS LESS THAN $5M
(SURVEYING EQUIPMENT)
4,995
4,995
ELECT EQUIP—SUPPORT
119
BCT EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES
16,983
20,883
MDTF advanced intel systems remote
collection
[3,900]
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
1,582
1,582
CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
EQUIPMENT
123
CBRN
DEFENSE
28,456
42,456
WMD CST equipment
[14,000]
124
SMOKE &
OBSCURANT FAMILY: SOF (NON AAO ITEM)
13,995
13,995
BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
125
TACTICAL
BRIDGING
10,545
10,545
126
TACTICAL BRIDGE,
FLOAT-RIBBON
72,074
72,074
127
BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL
SET
32,493
32,493
128
COMMON BRIDGE
TRANSPORTER (CBT) RECAP
62,978
62,978
ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
EQUIPMENT
129
HANDHELD STANDOFF
MINEFIELD DETECTION SYS-HST
5,570
5,570
130
GRND STANDOFF MINE
DETECTN SYSM (GSTAMIDS)
2,497
2,497
132
HUSKY MOUNTED
DETECTION SYSTEM (HMDS)
109,069
109,069
134
EOD ROBOTICS
SYSTEMS RECAPITALIZATION
36,584
36,584
135
ROBOTICS AND
APPLIQUE SYSTEMS
179,544
179,544
137
RENDER SAFE SETS
KITS OUTFITS
64,583
64,583
139
FAMILY OF BOATS AND
MOTORS
5,289
5,289
COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
140
HEATERS AND
ECU'S
8,200
8,200
142
PERSONNEL RECOVERY
SUPPORT SYSTEM (PRSS)
4,625
4,625
143
GROUND SOLDIER
SYSTEM
154,937
154,937
144
MOBILE SOLDIER
POWER
34,297
34,297
147
CARGO AERIAL DEL
& PERSONNEL PARACHUTE SYSTEM
53,021
53,021
148
FAMILY OF ENGR
COMBAT AND CONSTRUCTION SETS
23,324
23,324
149
ITEMS LESS THAN $5M
(ENG SPT)
8,014
8,014
PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
150
DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM & WATER
78,448
78,448
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
151
COMBAT SUPPORT
MEDICAL
59,485
59,485
MAINTENANCE
EQUIPMENT
152
MOBILE MAINTENANCE
EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS
40,337
40,337
153
ITEMS LESS THAN
$5.0M (MAINT EQ)
5,386
5,386
CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT
154
GRADER, ROAD MTZD,
HVY, 6X4 (CCE)
5,406
5,406
155
SCRAPERS,
EARTHMOVING
4,188
4,188
156
LOADERS
4,521
4,521
157
HYDRAULIC
EXCAVATOR
5,186
5,186
158
TRACTOR, FULL
TRACKED
4,715
4,715
159
ALL TERRAIN
CRANES
70,560
70,560
162
CONST EQUIP
ESP
8,925
8,925
RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION
EQUIPMENT
164
ARMY WATERCRAFT
ESP
40,910
40,910
165
MANEUVER SUPPORT
VESSEL (MSV)
76,576
76,576
166
ITEMS LESS THAN
$5.0M (FLOAT/RAIL)
1,844
1,844
GENERATORS
167
GENERATORS AND
ASSOCIATED EQUIP
53,433
53,433
168
TACTICAL ELECTRIC
POWER RECAPITALIZATION
22,216
22,216
MATERIAL HANDLING
EQUIPMENT
169
FAMILY OF
FORKLIFTS
16,145
16,145
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
170
COMBAT TRAINING
CENTERS SUPPORT
90,580
90,580
171
TRAINING DEVICES,
NONSYSTEM
161,814
161,814
172
SYNTHETIC TRAINING
ENVIRONMENT (STE)
13,063
13,063
175
GAMING TECHNOLOGY
IN SUPPORT OF ARMY TRAINING
1,950
1,950
TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
(TMD)
176
CALIBRATION SETS
EQUIPMENT
2,511
2,511
177
INTEGRATED FAMILY
OF TEST EQUIPMENT (IFTE)
78,578
78,578
178
TEST EQUIPMENT
MODERNIZATION (TEMOD)
14,941
14,941
OTHER SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
180
RAPID EQUIPPING
SOLDIER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
8,629
8,629
181
PHYSICAL SECURITY
SYSTEMS (OPA3)
75,499
87,499
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades
[12,000]
182
BASE LEVEL COMMON
EQUIPMENT
27,444
27,444
183
MODIFICATION OF
IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA–3)
32,485
48,385
Expeditionary Solid Waste Disposal
System
[15,900]
187
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
FOR TEST AND EVALUATION
39,436
39,436
OPA2
189
INITIAL
SPARES—C&E
9,950
9,950
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, ARMY
8,625,206
8,685,239
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
COMBAT AIRCRAFT
1
F/A–18E/F (FIGHTER)
HORNET
1,761,146
1,761,146
3
JOINT STRIKE
FIGHTER CV
2,181,780
2,381,780
Additional aircraft
[200,000]
4
JOINT STRIKE
FIGHTER CV AP
330,386
330,386
5
JSF STOVL
1,109,393
1,234,893
Additional 2 F–35B aircraft
[125,500]
6
JSF STOVL
AP
303,035
303,035
7
CH–53K (HEAVY
LIFT)
813,324
793,324
Force Design 2030 realignment NRE
excess
[–20,000]
8
CH–53K (HEAVY LIFT)
AP
201,188
191,188
Force Design 2030 realignment
[–10,000]
9
V–22 (MEDIUM
LIFT)
934,793
934,793
10
V–22 (MEDIUM LIFT)
AP
39,547
39,547
11
H–1 UPGRADES
(UH–1Y/AH–1Z)
7,267
7,267
13
P–8A
POSEIDON
80,134
80,134
15
E–2D ADV
HAWKEYE
626,109
626,109
16
E–2D ADV HAWKEYE
AP
123,166
123,166
TRAINER AIRCRAFT
17
ADVANCED HELICOPTER
TRAINING SYSTEM
269,867
269,867
OTHER AIRCRAFT
18
KC–130J
380,984
380,984
19
KC–130J AP
67,022
67,022
21
MQ–4 TRITON
150,570
100,570
Excess funding given procurement pause until
FY23
[–50,000]
23
MQ–8 UAV
40,375
40,375
24
STUASL0 UAV
30,930
30,930
26
VH–92A EXECUTIVE
HELO
610,231
610,231
MODIFICATION OF
AIRCRAFT
28
F–18 A-D
UNIQUE
208,261
208,261
29
F–18E/F AND EA–18G
MODERNIZATION AND SUSTAINM
468,954
468,954
30
AEA SYSTEMS
21,061
21,061
31
AV–8 SERIES
34,082
34,082
32
INFRARED SEARCH AND
TRACK (IRST)
158,055
158,055
33
ADVERSARY
42,946
42,946
34
F–18 SERIES
379,351
379,351
35
H–53 SERIES
74,771
74,771
36
MH–60
SERIES
131,584
131,584
37
H–1 SERIES
185,140
185,140
38
EP–3 SERIES
26,602
26,602
40
E–2 SERIES
175,540
175,540
41
TRAINER A/C
SERIES
7,085
7,085
42
C–2A
9,525
9,525
43
C–130
SERIES
141,705
141,705
44
FEWSG
684
684
45
CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C
SERIES
8,911
8,911
46
E–6 SERIES
197,206
197,206
47
EXECUTIVE
HELICOPTERS SERIES
29,086
29,086
49
T–45 SERIES
155,745
155,745
50
POWER PLANT
CHANGES
24,633
24,633
51
JPATS
SERIES
22,682
22,682
52
AVIATION LIFE
SUPPORT MODS
40,401
45,401
Aviation body armor vest
[5,000]
53
COMMON ECM
EQUIPMENT
138,480
138,480
54
COMMON AVIONICS
CHANGES
143,322
143,322
55
COMMON DEFENSIVE
WEAPON SYSTEM
2,142
2,142
56
ID SYSTEMS
35,999
35,999
57
P–8 SERIES
180,530
180,530
58
MAGTF EW FOR
AVIATION
27,794
27,794
59
MQ–8 SERIES
28,774
28,774
60
V–22 (TILT/ROTOR
ACFT) OSPREY
334,405
334,405
61
NEXT GENERATION
JAMMER (NGJ)
176,638
176,638
62
F–35 STOVL
SERIES
153,588
153,588
63
F–35 CV
SERIES
105,452
105,452
64
QRC
126,618
126,618
65
MQ–4 SERIES
12,998
12,998
66
RQ–21
SERIES
18,550
18,550
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
70
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
2,198,460
2,228,460
Additional F–35B/C spares
[30,000]
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &
FACILITIES
71
COMMON GROUND
EQUIPMENT
543,559
543,559
72
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL
FACILITIES
75,685
75,685
73
WAR
CONSUMABLES
40,633
40,633
74
OTHER PRODUCTION
CHARGES
21,194
21,194
75
SPECIAL SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
155,179
155,179
76
FIRST DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION
2,121
2,121
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
17,127,378
17,407,878
WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
MODIFICATION OF
MISSILES
1
TRIDENT II
MODS
1,173,837
1,173,837
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
FACILITIES
2
MISSILE INDUSTRIAL
FACILITIES
7,275
7,275
STRATEGIC MISSILES
3
TOMAHAWK
277,694
303,694
Program increase for USMC Tomahawk
[26,000]
TACTICAL MISSILES
4
AMRAAM
326,952
326,952
5
SIDEWINDER
126,485
126,485
7
STANDARD
MISSILE
456,206
456,206
8
STANDARD MISSILE
AP
66,716
66,716
9
SMALL DIAMETER BOMB
II
78,867
78,867
10
RAM
90,533
90,533
11
JOINT AIR GROUND
MISSILE (JAGM)
49,386
49,386
14
AERIAL
TARGETS
174,336
174,336
15
DRONES AND
DECOYS
41,256
41,256
16
OTHER MISSILE
SUPPORT
3,501
3,501
17
LRASM
168,845
203,845
Additional Navy LRASM missiles
[35,000]
18
LCS OTH
MISSILE
32,910
32,910
MODIFICATION OF
MISSILES
19
TOMAHAWK
MODS
164,915
164,915
20
ESSM
215,375
215,375
22
HARM MODS
147,572
147,572
23
STANDARD MISSILES
MODS
83,654
83,654
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
FACILITIES
24
WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL
FACILITIES
1,996
1,996
25
FLEET SATELLITE
COMM FOLLOW-ON
53,401
53,401
ORDNANCE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
27
ORDNANCE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
215,659
215,659
TORPEDOES AND RELATED
EQUIP
28
SSTD
5,811
3,611
Insufficient justification for ADC
non-recurring costs
[–2,200]
29
MK–48
TORPEDO
284,901
284,901
30
ASW TARGETS
13,833
13,833
MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
EQUIP
31
MK–54 TORPEDO
MODS
110,286
100,286
Mk 54 Mod 0 production delays
[–10,000]
32
MK–48 TORPEDO ADCAP
MODS
57,214
57,214
33
MARITIME
MINES
5,832
5,832
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
34
TORPEDO SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
97,581
97,581
35
ASW RANGE
SUPPORT
4,159
4,159
DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION
36
FIRST DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION
4,106
4,106
GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
37
SMALL ARMS AND
WEAPONS
16,030
16,030
MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
MOUNTS
38
CIWS MODS
37,147
37,147
39
COAST GUARD
WEAPONS
45,804
45,804
40
GUN MOUNT
MODS
74,427
74,427
41
LCS MODULE
WEAPONS
4,253
4,253
42
AIRBORNE MINE
NEUTRALIZATION SYSTEMS
6,662
6,662
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
45
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
159,578
159,578
TOTAL WEAPONS
PROCUREMENT, NAVY
4,884,995
4,933,795
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY &
MC
NAVY AMMUNITION
1
GENERAL PURPOSE
BOMBS
41,496
41,496
2
JDAM
64,631
64,631
3
AIRBORNE ROCKETS,
ALL TYPES
60,719
60,719
4
MACHINE GUN
AMMUNITION
11,158
11,158
5
PRACTICE
BOMBS
51,409
51,409
6
CARTRIDGES &
CART ACTUATED DEVICES
64,694
64,694
7
AIR EXPENDABLE
COUNTERMEASURES
51,523
51,523
8
JATOS
6,761
6,761
9
5 INCH/54 GUN
AMMUNITION
31,517
31,517
10
INTERMEDIATE
CALIBER GUN AMMUNITION
38,005
38,005
11
OTHER SHIP GUN
AMMUNITION
40,626
40,626
12
SMALL ARMS &
LANDING PARTY AMMO
48,202
48,202
13
PYROTECHNIC AND
DEMOLITION
9,766
9,766
15
AMMUNITION LESS
THAN $5 MILLION
2,115
2,115
MARINE CORPS
AMMUNITION
16
MORTARS
46,781
46,781
17
DIRECT SUPPORT
MUNITIONS
119,504
119,504
18
INFANTRY WEAPONS
AMMUNITION
83,220
83,220
19
COMBAT SUPPORT
MUNITIONS
32,650
32,650
20
AMMO
MODERNIZATION
15,144
15,144
21
ARTILLERY
MUNITIONS
59,539
59,539
22
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
4,142
4,142
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
883,602
883,602
SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION,
NAVY
FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE
SHIPS
1
OHIO REPLACEMENT
SUBMARINE
2,891,475
2,891,475
2
OHIO REPLACEMENT
SUBMARINE AP
1,123,175
1,298,175
Submarine supplier stability
[175,000]
OTHER WARSHIPS
3
CARRIER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM
997,544
997,544
4
CVN–81
1,645,606
1,645,606
5
VIRGINIA CLASS
SUBMARINE
2,334,693
2,260,293
Unjustified cost growth
[–74,400]
6
VIRGINIA CLASS
SUBMARINE AP
1,901,187
2,373,187
Long lead material for option ship
[472,000]
7
CVN REFUELING
OVERHAULS
1,878,453
1,878,453
8
CVN REFUELING
OVERHAULS AP
17,384
17,384
9
DDG 1000
78,205
78,205
10
DDG–51
3,040,270
3,010,270
Available prior-year funds
[–30,000]
11
DDG–51 AP
29,297
464,297
LLTM for FY22 DDG–51s
[260,000]
Surface ship supplier stability
[175,000]
13
FFG-FRIGATE
1,053,123
1,053,123
AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
14
LPD FLIGHT
II
1,155,801
905,801
Transfer to Line 15
[–250,000]
15
LPD FLIGHT II
AP
0
500,000
LPD–32 and LPD–33 program increase
[250,000]
Transfer from Line 14 for LPD–32 and
LPD–33
[250,000]
17
LHA
REPLACEMENT
0
250,000
LHA–9 program increase
[250,000]
AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR
PROGRAM COST
22
TOWING, SALVAGE,
AND RESCUE SHIP (ATS)
168,209
168,209
23
LCU 1700
87,395
70,395
Insufficient justification
[–17,000]
24
OUTFITTING
825,586
747,286
Unjustified cost growth
[–78,300]
26
SERVICE
CRAFT
249,781
275,281
Accelerate YP–703 Flight II
[25,500]
27
LCAC SLEP
56,461
0
Insufficient justification
[–56,461]
28
COMPLETION OF PY
SHIPBUILDING PROGRAMS
369,112
369,112
TOTAL
SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION, NAVY
19,902,757
21,254,096
OTHER PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
SHIP PROPULSION
EQUIPMENT
1
SURFACE POWER
EQUIPMENT
11,738
11,738
GENERATORS
2
SURFACE COMBATANT
HM&E
58,497
38,497
Hardware and software upgrades for 5
previously procured HED ship sets
[15,000]
HED installation early to need
[–35,000]
NAVIGATION
EQUIPMENT
3
OTHER NAVIGATION
EQUIPMENT
74,084
74,084
OTHER SHIPBOARD
EQUIPMENT
4
SUB PERISCOPE,
IMAGING AND SUPT EQUIP PROG
204,806
204,806
5
DDG MOD
547,569
497,569
Installation excess unit cost growth
[–50,000]
6
FIREFIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
18,394
18,394
7
COMMAND AND CONTROL
SWITCHBOARD
2,374
2,374
8
LHA/LHD
MIDLIFE
78,265
78,265
9
POLLUTION CONTROL
EQUIPMENT
23,035
23,035
10
SUBMARINE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
64,632
64,632
11
VIRGINIA CLASS
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
22,868
22,868
12
LCS CLASS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
3,976
3,976
13
SUBMARINE
BATTERIES
31,322
31,322
14
LPD CLASS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
50,475
50,475
15
DDG 1000 CLASS
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
42,279
42,279
16
STRATEGIC PLATFORM
SUPPORT EQUIP
15,429
15,429
17
DSSP
EQUIPMENT
2,918
2,918
18
CG
MODERNIZATION
87,978
87,978
19
LCAC
9,366
9,366
20
UNDERWATER EOD
EQUIPMENT
16,842
16,842
21
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
105,715
105,715
22
CHEMICAL WARFARE
DETECTORS
3,044
3,044
23
SUBMARINE LIFE
SUPPORT SYSTEM
5,885
5,885
REACTOR PLANT
EQUIPMENT
24
SHIP MAINTENANCE,
REPAIR AND MODERNIZATION
1,260,721
1,260,721
25
REACTOR POWER
UNITS
5,305
5,305
26
REACTOR
COMPONENTS
415,404
415,404
OCEAN ENGINEERING
27
DIVING AND SALVAGE
EQUIPMENT
11,143
11,143
SMALL BOATS
28
STANDARD
BOATS
52,371
52,371
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
EQUIPMENT
29
OPERATING FORCES
IPE
233,667
233,667
OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
30
LCS COMMON MISSION
MODULES EQUIPMENT
39,714
17,414
MCM containers and MPCE sonar processing
insufficient justification
[–22,300]
31
LCS MCM MISSION
MODULES
218,822
95,322
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory
testing
[–123,500]
32
LCS ASW MISSION
MODULES
61,759
4,759
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory
testing
[–57,000]
33
LCS SUW MISSION
MODULES
24,412
24,412
34
LCS IN-SERVICE
MODERNIZATION
121,848
121,848
35
SMALL & MEDIUM
UUV
67,709
37,609
SMCM UUV excess procurement ahead of
satisfactory testing
[–30,100]
SHIP SONARS
37
SPQ–9B
RADAR
27,517
27,517
38
AN/SQQ–89 SURF ASW
COMBAT SYSTEM
128,664
128,664
39
SSN ACOUSTIC
EQUIPMENT
374,737
374,737
40
UNDERSEA WARFARE
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
9,286
9,286
ASW ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT
41
SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC
WARFARE SYSTEM
26,066
26,066
42
SSTD
13,241
13,241
43
FIXED SURVEILLANCE
SYSTEM
193,446
193,446
44
SURTASS
63,838
63,838
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
EQUIPMENT
45
AN/SLQ–32
387,195
330,795
Early to need
[–56,400]
RECONNAISSANCE
EQUIPMENT
46
SHIPBOARD IW
EXPLOIT
235,744
235,744
47
AUTOMATED
IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM (AIS)
3,862
3,862
OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT
48
COOPERATIVE
ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY
26,006
18,706
Common Array Block antenna program
delays
[–7,300]
49
NAVAL TACTICAL
COMMAND SUPPORT SYSTEM (NTCSS)
15,385
15,385
50
ATDLS
103,835
103,835
51
NAVY COMMAND AND
CONTROL SYSTEM (NCCS)
3,594
3,594
52
MINESWEEPING SYSTEM
REPLACEMENT
15,744
15,744
53
SHALLOW WATER
MCM
5,493
5,493
54
NAVSTAR GPS
RECEIVERS (SPACE)
38,043
38,043
55
AMERICAN FORCES
RADIO AND TV SERVICE
2,592
2,592
56
STRATEGIC PLATFORM
SUPPORT EQUIP
7,985
7,985
AVIATION ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT
57
ASHORE ATC
EQUIPMENT
83,475
83,475
58
AFLOAT ATC
EQUIPMENT
65,113
65,113
59
ID SYSTEMS
23,815
23,815
60
JOINT PRECISION
APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEM (
100,751
100,751
61
NAVAL MISSION
PLANNING SYSTEMS
13,947
13,947
OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT
62
MARITIME INTEGRATED
BROADCAST SYSTEM
1,375
1,375
63
TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I
SYSTEMS
22,771
22,771
64
DCGS-N
18,872
18,872
65
CANES
389,585
389,585
66
RADIAC
10,335
10,335
67
CANES-INTELL
48,654
48,654
68
GPETE
8,133
8,133
69
MASF
4,150
4,150
70
INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM
TEST FACILITY
5,934
5,934
71
EMI CONTROL
INSTRUMENTATION
4,334
4,334
72
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
159,815
105,015
NGSSR available prior year funds
[–54,800]
SHIPBOARD
COMMUNICATIONS
73
SHIPBOARD TACTICAL
COMMUNICATIONS
56,106
56,106
74
SHIP COMMUNICATIONS
AUTOMATION
124,288
124,288
75
COMMUNICATIONS
ITEMS UNDER $5M
45,120
45,120
SUBMARINE
COMMUNICATIONS
76
SUBMARINE BROADCAST
SUPPORT
31,133
31,133
77
SUBMARINE
COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT
62,214
62,214
SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS
78
SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
47,421
47,421
79
NAVY MULTIBAND
TERMINAL (NMT)
64,552
64,552
SHORE
COMMUNICATIONS
80
JOINT
COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE)
4,398
4,398
CRYPTOGRAPHIC
EQUIPMENT
81
INFO SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM (ISSP)
157,551
157,551
82
MIO INTEL
EXPLOITATION TEAM
985
985
CRYPTOLOGIC
EQUIPMENT
83
CRYPTOLOGIC
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP
15,906
15,906
OTHER ELECTRONIC
SUPPORT
90
COAST GUARD
EQUIPMENT
70,689
70,689
SONOBUOYS
92
SONOBUOYS—ALL
TYPES
237,639
286,739
Program increase for sonobuoys
[49,100]
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
93
MINOTAUR
5,077
5,077
94
WEAPONS RANGE
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
83,969
83,969
95
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
187,758
187,758
96
ADVANCED ARRESTING
GEAR (AAG)
16,059
16,059
97
METEOROLOGICAL
EQUIPMENT
15,192
15,192
99
LEGACY AIRBORNE
MCM
6,674
6,674
100
LAMPS
EQUIPMENT
1,189
1,189
101
AVIATION SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
58,873
58,873
102
UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER
AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL
60,937
60,937
SHIP GUN SYSTEM
EQUIPMENT
103
SHIP GUN SYSTEMS
EQUIPMENT
5,540
5,540
SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
EQUIPMENT
104
HARPOON SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
208
208
105
SHIP MISSILE
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
262,077
262,077
106
TOMAHAWK SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
84,087
84,087
FBM SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
107
STRATEGIC MISSILE
SYSTEMS EQUIP
258,910
258,910
ASW SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
108
SSN COMBAT CONTROL
SYSTEMS
173,770
173,770
109
ASW SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
26,584
26,584
OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
110
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE
DISPOSAL EQUIP
7,470
7,470
111
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
6,356
6,356
OTHER EXPENDABLE
ORDNANCE
112
ANTI-SHIP MISSILE
DECOY SYSTEM
86,356
86,356
113
SUBMARINE TRAINING
DEVICE MODS
69,240
69,240
114
SURFACE TRAINING
EQUIPMENT
192,245
192,245
CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
115
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
6,123
6,123
116
GENERAL PURPOSE
TRUCKS
2,693
2,693
117
CONSTRUCTION &
MAINTENANCE EQUIP
47,301
47,301
118
FIRE FIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
10,352
10,352
119
TACTICAL
VEHICLES
31,475
31,475
121
POLLUTION CONTROL
EQUIPMENT
2,630
2,630
122
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
47,972
47,972
123
PHYSICAL SECURITY
VEHICLES
1,171
1,171
SUPPLY SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
124
SUPPLY
EQUIPMENT
19,693
19,693
125
FIRST DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION
4,956
4,956
126
SPECIAL PURPOSE
SUPPLY SYSTEMS
668,639
668,639
TRAINING DEVICES
127
TRAINING SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
4,026
4,026
128
TRAINING AND
EDUCATION EQUIPMENT
73,454
73,454
COMMAND SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
129
COMMAND SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
32,390
32,390
130
MEDICAL SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
974
974
132
NAVAL MIP SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
5,606
5,606
133
OPERATING FORCES
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
16,024
16,024
134
C4ISR
EQUIPMENT
6,697
6,697
135
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
27,503
27,503
136
PHYSICAL SECURITY
EQUIPMENT
138,281
138,281
137
ENTERPRISE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
42,680
42,680
OTHER
140
NEXT GENERATION
ENTERPRISE SERVICE
184,443
184,443
141
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
16,523
16,523
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
18,446
18,446
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
142
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
374,195
374,195
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, NAVY
10,948,518
10,576,218
PROCUREMENT, MARINE
CORPS
TRACKED COMBAT
VEHICLES
1
AAV7A1 PIP
87,476
87,476
2
AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT
VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICLES
478,874
478,874
3
LAV PIP
41,988
41,988
ARTILLERY AND OTHER
WEAPONS
4
155MM LIGHTWEIGHT
TOWED HOWITZER
59
59
5
ARTILLERY WEAPONS
SYSTEM
174,687
234,287
Ground-Based Anti-Ship Missile NSM
[59,600]
6
WEAPONS AND COMBAT
VEHICLES UNDER $5 MILLION
24,867
24,867
OTHER SUPPORT
7
MODIFICATION
KITS
3,067
3,067
GUIDED MISSILES
8
GROUND BASED AIR
DEFENSE
18,920
18,920
9
ANTI-ARMOR
MISSILE-JAVELIN
19,888
19,888
10
FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR
WEAPON SYSTEMS (FOAAWS)
21,891
21,891
11
ANTI-ARMOR
MISSILE-TOW
34,985
34,985
12
GUIDED MLRS ROCKET
(GMLRS)
133,689
133,689
COMMAND AND CONTROL
SYSTEMS
13
COMMON AVIATION
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (C
35,057
35,057
REPAIR AND TEST
EQUIPMENT
14
REPAIR AND TEST
EQUIPMENT
24,405
24,405
OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
15
MODIFICATION
KITS
1,006
1,006
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM
(NON-TEL)
16
ITEMS UNDER $5
MILLION (COMM & ELEC)
69,725
69,725
17
AIR OPERATIONS C2
SYSTEMS
15,611
15,611
RADAR + EQUIPMENT
(NON-TEL)
19
GROUND/AIR TASK
ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR)
284,283
284,283
INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
(NON-TEL)
20
GCSS-MC
1,587
1,587
21
FIRE SUPPORT
SYSTEM
24,934
24,934
22
INTELLIGENCE
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
50,728
50,728
24
UNMANNED AIR
SYSTEMS (INTEL)
24,853
24,853
25
DCGS-MC
38,260
38,260
26
UAS
PAYLOADS
5,489
5,489
OTHER SUPPORT
(NON-TEL)
29
NEXT GENERATION
ENTERPRISE NETWORK (NGEN)
78,922
78,922
30
COMMON COMPUTER
RESOURCES
35,349
35,349
31
COMMAND POST
SYSTEMS
33,713
33,713
32
RADIO
SYSTEMS
343,250
343,250
33
COMM SWITCHING
& CONTROL SYSTEMS
40,627
40,627
34
COMM & ELEC
INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT
43,782
43,782
35
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
53,896
53,896
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
3,797
3,797
ADMINISTRATIVE
VEHICLES
37
COMMERCIAL CARGO
VEHICLES
22,460
22,460
TACTICAL VEHICLES
38
MOTOR TRANSPORT
MODIFICATIONS
10,739
10,739
39
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE
381,675
381,675
40
FAMILY OF TACTICAL
TRAILERS
2,963
2,963
ENGINEER AND OTHER
EQUIPMENT
42
ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTROL EQUIP ASSORT
385
385
43
TACTICAL FUEL
SYSTEMS
501
501
44
POWER EQUIPMENT
ASSORTED
23,430
23,430
45
AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
5,752
5,752
46
EOD SYSTEMS
20,939
20,939
MATERIALS HANDLING
EQUIPMENT
47
PHYSICAL SECURITY
EQUIPMENT
23,063
23,063
GENERAL PROPERTY
48
FIELD MEDICAL
EQUIPMENT
4,187
4,187
49
TRAINING
DEVICES
101,765
101,765
50
FAMILY OF
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
19,305
19,305
51
ULTRA-LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE (ULTV)
678
678
OTHER SUPPORT
52
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
9,174
9,174
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
53
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
27,295
27,295
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
2,903,976
2,963,576
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
TACTICAL FORCES
1
F–35
4,567,018
5,543,685
Additional 12 F–35As
[976,667]
2
F–35
610,800
610,800
4
F–15EX
1,269,847
1,269,847
5
F–15EX
133,500
133,500
TACTICAL AIRLIFT
7
KC–46A MDAP
2,850,151
2,850,151
OTHER AIRLIFT
8
C–130J
37,131
37,131
10
MC–130J
362,807
362,807
11
MC–130J
39,987
39,987
HELICOPTERS
12
UH–1N
REPLACEMENT
194,016
194,016
13
COMBAT RESCUE
HELICOPTER
973,473
973,473
MISSION SUPPORT
AIRCRAFT
15
CIVIL AIR PATROL
A/C
2,811
2,811
OTHER AIRCRAFT
16
TARGET
DRONES
133,273
133,273
18
COMPASS
CALL
161,117
161,117
20
MQ–9
29,409
79,409
Program increase
[50,000]
STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
22
B–1
3,853
0
USAF-requested transfer to RDAF Line
174
[–3,853]
23
B–2A
31,476
31,476
24
B–1B
21,808
21,315
USAF-requested transfer to RDAF Line
174
[–493]
25
B–52
53,949
53,949
26
LARGE AIRCRAFT
INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES
9,999
9,999
TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
27
A–10
135,793
135,793
28
E–11
BACN/HAG
33,645
33,645
29
F–15
349,304
349,304
30
F–16
615,760
640,760
Additional radars
[25,000]
32
F–22A
387,905
387,905
33
F–35
MODIFICATIONS
322,185
322,185
34
F–15 EPAW
31,995
31,995
35
INCREMENT
3.2B
5,889
5,889
36
KC–46A MDAP
24,085
24,085
AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
37
C–5
62,108
62,108
38
C–17A
66,798
66,798
40
C–32A
2,947
2,947
41
C–37A
12,985
12,985
TRAINER AIRCRAFT
42
GLIDER MODS
977
977
43
T–6
26,829
26,829
44
T–1
4,465
4,465
45
T–38
36,806
44,506
T–38 ejection seats
[7,700]
OTHER AIRCRAFT
46
U–2 MODS
110,618
110,618
47
KC–10A
(ATCA)
117
117
49
VC–25A MOD
1,983
1,983
50
C–40
9,252
9,252
51
C–130
5,871
5,871
52
C–130J MODS
140,032
140,032
53
C–135
88,250
88,250
55
COMPASS
CALL
193,389
193,389
57
RC–135
191,332
191,332
58
E–3
172,141
172,141
59
E–4
58,803
44,103
Funds rephased to future fiscal years
[–14,700]
60
E–8
11,037
21,037
Secure information transmission
capability
[10,000]
61
AIRBORNE WARNING
AND CNTRL SYS (AWACS) 40/45
53,343
53,343
62
FAMILY OF BEYOND
LINE-OF-SIGHT TERMINALS
1,573
1,573
63
H–1
4,410
4,410
64
H–60
44,538
44,538
65
RQ–4 MODS
40,468
40,468
66
HC/MC–130
MODIFICATIONS
20,780
20,780
67
OTHER
AIRCRAFT
100,774
100,774
68
MQ–9 MODS
188,387
188,387
70
CV–22 MODS
122,306
127,306
CV–22 ABSS
[5,000]
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
71
INITIAL
SPARES/REPAIR PARTS
926,683
956,683
F–35A initial spares increase
[30,000]
COMMON SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
73
AIRCRAFT
REPLACEMENT SUPPORT EQUIP
132,719
132,719
POST PRODUCTION
SUPPORT
74
B–2A
1,683
1,683
75
B–2B
46,734
46,734
76
B–52
1,034
1,034
79
E–11
BACN/HAG
63,419
63,419
80
F–15
2,632
2,632
81
F–16
14,163
14,163
83
OTHER
AIRCRAFT
4,595
4,595
84
RQ–4 POST
PRODUCTION CHARGES
32,585
32,585
INDUSTRIAL
PREPAREDNESS
85
INDUSTRIAL
RESPONSIVENESS
18,215
18,215
WAR CONSUMABLES
86
WAR
CONSUMABLES
36,046
36,046
OTHER PRODUCTION
CHARGES
87
OTHER PRODUCTION
CHARGES
1,439,640
1,514,640
Classified increase
[75,000]
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
21,692
21,692
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
17,908,145
19,068,466
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
MISSILE REPLACEMENT
EQUIPMENT—BALLISTIC
1
MISSILE REPLACEMENT
EQ-BALLISTIC
75,012
75,012
TACTICAL
2
REPLAC EQUIP &
WAR CONSUMABLES
4,495
4,495
4
JOINT AIR-SURFACE
STANDOFF MISSILE
475,949
400,949
Realignment to support NDS requirements in
Pacific
[–75,000]
5
LRASM0
19,800
94,800
Additional Air Force LRASM missiles
[75,000]
6
SIDEWINDER
(AIM–9X)
164,769
164,769
7
AMRAAM
453,223
453,223
8
PREDATOR HELLFIRE
MISSILE
40,129
40,129
9
SMALL DIAMETER
BOMB
45,475
45,475
10
SMALL DIAMETER BOMB
II
273,272
273,272
INDUSTRIAL
FACILITIES
11
INDUSTR'L
PREPAREDNS/POL PREVENTION
814
814
CLASS IV
13
ICBM FUZE
MOD
3,458
3,458
14
ICBM FUZE MOD
AP
43,450
43,450
15
MM III
MODIFICATIONS
85,310
85,310
16
AGM–65D
MAVERICK
298
298
17
AIR LAUNCH CRUISE
MISSILE (ALCM)
52,924
52,924
MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
18
MSL SPRS/REPAIR
PARTS (INITIAL)
9,402
9,402
19
MSL SPRS/REPAIR
PARTS (REPLEN)
84,671
84,671
SPECIAL PROGRAMS
25
SPECIAL UPDATE
PROGRAMS
23,501
23,501
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
540,465
540,465
TOTAL MISSILE
PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
2,396,417
2,396,417
PROCUREMENT, SPACE
FORCE
SPACE PROCUREMENT,
SF
1
ADVANCED
EHF
14,823
14,823
2
AF SATELLITE COMM
SYSTEM
48,326
48,326
3
COUNTERSPACE
SYSTEMS
65,540
65,540
4
FAMILY OF BEYOND
LINE-OF-SIGHT TERMINALS
66,190
66,190
5
GENERAL INFORMATION
TECH—SPACE
3,299
3,299
6
GPSIII FOLLOW
ON
627,796
627,796
7
GPS III SPACE
SEGMENT
20,122
20,122
8
GLOBAL POSTIONING
(SPACE)
2,256
2,256
9
SPACEBORNE EQUIP
(COMSEC)
35,495
35,495
10
MILSATCOM
15,795
15,795
11
SBIR HIGH
(SPACE)
160,891
160,891
12
SPECIAL SPACE
ACTIVITIES
78,387
78,387
13
NATIONAL SECURITY
SPACE LAUNCH
1,043,171
1,043,171
14
NUDET DETECTION
SYSTEM
6,638
6,638
15
ROCKET SYSTEMS
LAUNCH PROGRAM
47,741
47,741
16
SPACE FENCE
11,279
11,279
17
SPACE MODS
96,551
109,051
Cobra Dane service life extension
[12,500]
18
SPACELIFT RANGE
SYSTEM SPACE
100,492
100,492
SPARES
19
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
1,272
1,272
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
2,446,064
2,458,564
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
FORCE
ROCKETS
1
ROCKETS
14,962
14,962
CARTRIDGES
2
CARTRIDGES
123,365
123,365
BOMBS
3
PRACTICE
BOMBS
59,725
59,725
6
JOINT DIRECT ATTACK
MUNITION
206,989
206,989
7
B61
35,634
35,634
OTHER ITEMS
9
CAD/PAD
47,830
47,830
10
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE
DISPOSAL (EOD)
6,232
6,232
11
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
542
542
12
MODIFICATIONS
1,310
1,310
13
ITEMS LESS THAN
$5,000,000
4,753
4,753
FLARES
15
FLARES
40,088
40,088
FUZES
16
FUZES
40,983
40,983
SMALL ARMS
17
SMALL ARMS
13,925
13,925
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
596,338
596,338
OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
1
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
9,016
9,016
CARGO AND UTILITY
VEHICLES
2
MEDIUM TACTICAL
VEHICLE
15,058
15,058
3
CAP
VEHICLES
1,059
1,059
4
CARGO AND UTILITY
VEHICLES
38,920
38,920
SPECIAL PURPOSE
VEHICLES
5
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE
30,544
30,544
6
SECURITY AND
TACTICAL VEHICLES
319
319
7
SPECIAL PURPOSE
VEHICLES
43,157
43,157
FIRE FIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
8
FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH
RESCUE VEHICLES
8,621
8,621
MATERIALS HANDLING
EQUIPMENT
9
MATERIALS HANDLING
VEHICLES
12,897
12,897
BASE MAINTENANCE
SUPPORT
10
RUNWAY SNOW REMOV
AND CLEANING EQU
3,577
3,577
11
BASE MAINTENANCE
SUPPORT VEHICLES
43,095
43,095
COMM SECURITY
EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
13
COMSEC
EQUIPMENT
54,864
54,864
INTELLIGENCE
PROGRAMS
14
INTERNATIONAL INTEL
TECH & ARCHITECTURES
9,283
10,783
PDI: Mission Partner Environment BICES-X
local upgrades
[1,500]
15
INTELLIGENCE
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
6,849
6,849
16
INTELLIGENCE COMM
EQUIPMENT
33,471
33,471
ELECTRONICS
PROGRAMS
17
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
& LANDING SYS
29,409
29,409
18
BATTLE CONTROL
SYSTEM—FIXED
7,909
7,909
19
THEATER AIR CONTROL
SYS IMPROVEMEN
32,632
32,632
20
WEATHER OBSERVATION
FORECAST
33,021
33,021
21
STRATEGIC COMMAND
AND CONTROL
31,353
31,353
22
CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN
COMPLEX
10,314
10,314
23
MISSION PLANNING
SYSTEMS
15,132
15,132
25
INTEGRATED STRAT
PLAN & ANALY NETWORK (ISPAN)
9,806
9,806
SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
PROJECTS
26
GENERAL INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
39,887
39,887
27
AF GLOBAL COMMAND
& CONTROL SYS
2,602
2,602
29
MOBILITY COMMAND
AND CONTROL
10,541
10,541
30
AIR FORCE PHYSICAL
SECURITY SYSTEM
96,277
96,277
31
COMBAT TRAINING
RANGES
195,185
195,185
32
MINIMUM ESSENTIAL
EMERGENCY COMM N
29,664
29,664
33
WIDE AREA
SURVEILLANCE (WAS)
59,633
59,633
34
C3
COUNTERMEASURES
105,584
105,584
36
DEFENSE ENTERPRISE
ACCOUNTING & MGT SYS
899
899
38
THEATER BATTLE MGT
C2 SYSTEM
3,392
3,392
39
AIR & SPACE
OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC)
24,983
24,983
AIR FORCE
COMMUNICATIONS
41
BASE INFORMATION
TRANSPT INFRAST (BITI) WIRED
19,147
19,147
42
AFNET
84,515
84,515
43
JOINT
COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE)
6,185
6,185
44
USCENTCOM
19,649
19,649
45
USSTRATCOM
4,337
4,337
ORGANIZATION AND
BASE
46
TACTICAL C-E
EQUIPMENT
137,033
137,033
47
RADIO
EQUIPMENT
15,264
15,264
49
BASE COMM
INFRASTRUCTURE
132,281
146,281
PDI: Mission Partner Environment
PACNET
[14,000]
MODIFICATIONS
50
COMM ELECT
MODS
21,471
21,471
PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE
EQUIP
51
PERSONAL SAFETY AND
RESCUE EQUIPMENT
49,578
49,578
DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING
EQ
52
POWER CONDITIONING
EQUIPMENT
11,454
11,454
53
MECHANIZED MATERIAL
HANDLING EQUIP
12,110
12,110
BASE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
54
BASE PROCURED
EQUIPMENT
21,142
21,142
55
ENGINEERING AND EOD
EQUIPMENT
7,700
7,700
56
MOBILITY
EQUIPMENT
18,266
22,966
Insulation system for Air Force
shelters
[4,700]
57
FUELS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT (FSE)
9,601
9,601
58
BASE MAINTENANCE
AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
42,078
42,078
SPECIAL SUPPORT
PROJECTS
60
DARP RC135
27,164
27,164
61
DCGS-AF
121,528
121,528
63
SPECIAL UPDATE
PROGRAM
782,641
782,641
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
21,086,112
21,086,112
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
64
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS (CYBER)
1,664
1,664
65
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
15,847
15,847
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
23,695,720
23,715,920
PROCUREMENT,
DEFENSE-WIDE
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DCMA
2
MAJOR
EQUIPMENT
1,398
1,398
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DCSA
3
MAJOR
EQUIPMENT
2,212
2,212
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DHRA
5
PERSONNEL
ADMINISTRATION
4,213
4,213
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DISA
11
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY
17,211
17,211
12
TELEPORT
PROGRAM
29,841
29,841
13
JOINT FORCES
HEADQUARTERS—DODIN
3,091
3,091
14
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION
41,569
41,569
16
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEM NETWORK
26,978
26,978
17
WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNICATION AGENCY
44,161
44,161
18
SENIOR LEADERSHIP
ENTERPRISE
35,935
35,935
19
JOINT REGIONAL
SECURITY STACKS (JRSS)
88,741
77,641
JRSS SIPR funding
[–11,100]
20
JOINT SERVICE
PROVIDER
157,538
157,538
21
FOURTH ESTATE
NETWORK OPTIMIZATION (4ENO)
42,084
42,084
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DLA
23
MAJOR
EQUIPMENT
417,459
417,459
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DMACT
24
MAJOR
EQUIPMENT
7,993
7,993
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DODEA
25
AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT & LOGISTICS
1,319
1,319
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DPAA
26
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DPAA
500
500
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY
27
REGIONAL CENTER
PROCUREMENT
1,598
1,598
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
REDUCTION AGENCY
28
VEHICLES
215
215
29
OTHER MAJOR
EQUIPMENT
9,994
9,994
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE
AGENCY
31
THAAD
495,396
601,796
8th THAAD battery components
[76,300]
HEMTT life-of-type buy
[30,100]
34
AEGIS BMD
356,195
356,195
35
AEGIS BMD
AP
44,901
44,901
36
BMDS AN/TPY–2
RADARS
0
243,300
8th THAAD battery radar equipment
[243,300]
37
SM–3 IIAS
218,322
346,322
Additional SM–3 Block IIA
interceptors
[128,000]
38
ARROW 3 UPPER TIER
SYSTEMS
77,000
77,000
39
SHORT RANGE
BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE (SRBMD)
50,000
50,000
40
AEGIS ASHORE PHASE
III
39,114
39,114
41
IRON DOME
73,000
73,000
42
AEGIS BMD HARDWARE
AND SOFTWARE
104,241
104,241
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
NSA
48
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM (ISSP)
101
101
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
OSD
49
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
OSD
3,099
3,099
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
TJS
50
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
TJS
8,329
8,329
51
MAJOR EQUIPMENT—TJS
CYBER
1,247
1,247
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
WHS
53
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
WHS
515
515
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
554,264
554,264
AVIATION PROGRAMS
55
ARMED
OVERWATCH/TARGETING
101,000
0
Lack of validated requirement and
analysis
[–101,000]
56
MANNED ISR
0
40,100
SOCOM DHC–8 combat loss replacement
[40,100]
59
ROTARY WING
UPGRADES AND SUSTAINMENT
211,041
211,041
60
UNMANNED
ISR
25,488
25,488
61
NON-STANDARD
AVIATION
61,874
61,874
62
U–28
3,825
28,525
SOCOM aircraft maintenance support combat
loss replacement
[24,700]
63
MH–47
CHINOOK
135,482
135,482
64
CV–22
MODIFICATION
14,829
14,829
65
MQ–9 UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLE
6,746
6,746
66
PRECISION STRIKE
PACKAGE
243,111
243,111
67
AC/MC–130J
163,914
163,914
68
C–130
MODIFICATIONS
20,414
20,414
SHIPBUILDING
69
UNDERWATER
SYSTEMS
20,556
20,556
AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
70
ORDNANCE ITEMS
<$5M
186,197
186,197
OTHER PROCUREMENT
PROGRAMS
71
INTELLIGENCE
SYSTEMS
94,982
108,382
Transfer from MMP-Light to man-pack
[13,400]
72
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
11,645
11,645
73
OTHER ITEMS
<$5M
96,333
96,333
74
COMBATANT CRAFT
SYSTEMS
17,278
17,278
75
SPECIAL
PROGRAMS
78,865
78,865
76
TACTICAL
VEHICLES
30,158
30,158
77
WARRIOR SYSTEMS
<$5M
260,733
248,533
MMP-Light unexecutable, transfer to
man-pack
[–12,200]
78
COMBAT MISSION
REQUIREMENTS
19,848
19,848
79
GLOBAL VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES
2,401
2,401
80
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE
13,861
13,861
81
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS
247,038
259,538
SOCOM Syria exfiltration
reconsitution
[12,500]
CBDP
82
CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL
SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
147,150
147,150
83
CB PROTECTION &
HAZARD MITIGATION
149,944
149,944
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
5,324,487
5,768,587
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT
130,684,160
134,014,838
4102.
Procurement for overseas contingency operations
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
ROTARY
9
AH–64 APACHE BLOCK
IIIB NEW BUILD
69,154
69,154
14
CH–47
HELICOPTER
50,472
50,472
MODIFICATION OF
AIRCRAFT
17
MQ–1 PAYLOAD
(MIP)
5,968
5,968
20
MULTI SENSOR ABN
RECON (MIP)
122,520
122,520
25
EMARSS SEMA MODS
(MIP)
26,460
26,460
30
DEGRADED VISUAL
ENVIRONMENT
1,916
1,916
GROUND SUPPORT
AVIONICS
37
CMWS
149,162
149,162
38
COMMON INFRARED
COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
32,400
32,400
OTHER SUPPORT
41
AIRCREW INTEGRATED
SYSTEMS
3,028
3,028
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
461,080
461,080
MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE
SYSTEM
2
M-SHORAD—PROCUREMENT
158,300
158,300
3
MSE MISSILE
176,585
0
Inappropriate for EDI, transfer to
base
[–176,585]
AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE
SYSTEM
6
HELLFIRE SYS
SUMMARY
236,265
236,265
ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE
SYS
11
GUIDED MLRS ROCKET
(GMLRS)
127,015
127,015
15
LETHAL MINIATURE
AERIAL MISSILE SYSTEM (LMAMS
84,993
84,993
MODIFICATIONS
17
ATACMS MODS
78,434
78,434
22
MLRS MODS
20,000
20,000
TOTAL MISSILE
PROCUREMENT, ARMY
881,592
705,007
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
ARMY
WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT
VEHICLES
16
MULTI-ROLE
ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-PERSONNEL WEAPON S
4,765
4,765
18
MORTAR
SYSTEMS
10,460
10,460
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
15,225
15,225
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,
ARMY
SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
AMMUNITION
1
CTG, 5.56MM, ALL
TYPES
567
567
2
CTG, 7.62MM, ALL
TYPES
40
40
4
CTG, HANDGUN, ALL
TYPES
17
17
5
CTG, .50 CAL, ALL
TYPES
189
189
8
CTG, 30MM, ALL
TYPES
24,900
24,900
ARTILLERY
AMMUNITION
16
PROJ 155MM EXTENDED
RANGE M982
29,213
29,213
17
ARTILLERY
PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND PRIMERS, ALL
21,675
21,675
ROCKETS
20
SHOULDER LAUNCHED
MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES
176
176
21
ROCKET, HYDRA 70,
ALL TYPES
33,880
33,880
MISCELLANEOUS
29
ITEMS LESS THAN $5
MILLION (AMMO)
11
11
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
110,668
110,668
OTHER PROCUREMENT,
ARMY
TACTICAL VEHICLES
13
FAMILY OF HEAVY
TACTICAL VEHICLES (FHTV)
6,500
6,500
14
PLS ESP
15,163
15,163
17
TACTICAL WHEELED
VEHICLE PROTECTION KITS
27,066
27,066
COMM—SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS
30
TRANSPORTABLE
TACTICAL COMMAND COMMUNICATIONS
2,700
2,700
32
ASSURED
POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING
12,566
12,566
33
SMART-T
(SPACE)
289
289
34
GLOBAL BRDCST
SVC—GBS
319
319
COMM—COMBAT
COMMUNICATIONS
45
FAMILY OF MED COMM
FOR COMBAT CASUALTY CARE
1,257
1,257
COMM—INTELLIGENCE
COMM
48
CI AUTOMATION
ARCHITECTURE (MIP)
1,230
1,230
INFORMATION
SECURITY
52
COMMUNICATIONS
SECURITY (COMSEC)
128
128
COMM—BASE
COMMUNICATIONS
58
INFORMATION
SYSTEMS
15,277
15,277
62
INSTALLATION INFO
INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM
74,004
80,004
EDI: NATO Response Force (NRF)
networks
[6,000]
ELECT EQUIP—TACT INT REL ACT
(TIARA)
68
DCGS-A
(MIP)
47,709
47,709
70
TROJAN
(MIP)
1,766
1,766
71
MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP
(INTEL SPT) (MIP)
61,450
61,450
73
BIOMETRIC TACTICAL
COLLECTION DEVICES (MIP)
12,337
12,337
ELECT EQUIP—ELECTRONIC WARFARE
(EW)
80
FAMILY OF
PERSISTENT SURVEILLANCE CAP. (MIP)
44,293
44,293
81
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES
49,100
49,100
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
SURV)
83
SENTINEL
MODS
33,496
33,496
84
NIGHT VISION
DEVICES
643
643
87
RADIATION
MONITORING SYSTEMS
11
11
88
INDIRECT FIRE
PROTECTION FAMILY OF SYSTEMS
37,000
37,000
94
COMPUTER
BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32
280
280
95
MORTAR FIRE CONTROL
SYSTEM
13,672
13,672
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL C2
SYSTEMS
100
AIR & MSL
DEFENSE PLANNING & CONTROL SYS
15,143
15,143
ELECT
EQUIP—AUTOMATION
109
ARMY TRAINING
MODERNIZATION
4,688
4,688
110
AUTOMATED DATA
PROCESSING EQUIP
16,552
16,552
CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
EQUIPMENT
121
FAMILY OF
NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT (FNLE)
25,480
25,480
122
BASE DEFENSE
SYSTEMS (BDS)
98,960
98,960
123
CBRN
DEFENSE
18,887
18,887
BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
125
TACTICAL
BRIDGING
50,400
50,400
ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
EQUIPMENT
137
RENDER SAFE SETS
KITS OUTFITS
84,000
84,000
COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
140
HEATERS AND
ECU'S
370
370
142
PERSONNEL RECOVERY
SUPPORT SYSTEM (PRSS)
3,721
3,721
145
FORCE
PROVIDER
56,400
129,800
EDI: Improvements to living quarters for
rotational forces in Europe
[73,400]
146
FIELD FEEDING
EQUIPMENT
2,279
2,279
147
CARGO AERIAL DEL
& PERSONNEL PARACHUTE SYSTEM
2,040
2,040
PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
150
DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM & WATER
4,374
4,374
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
151
COMBAT SUPPORT
MEDICAL
6,390
6,390
MAINTENANCE
EQUIPMENT
152
MOBILE MAINTENANCE
EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS
7,769
7,769
153
ITEMS LESS THAN
$5.0M (MAINT EQ)
184
184
CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT
156
LOADERS
3,190
3,190
157
HYDRAULIC
EXCAVATOR
7,600
7,600
158
TRACTOR, FULL
TRACKED
7,450
7,450
160
HIGH MOBILITY
ENGINEER EXCAVATOR (HMEE)
3,703
3,703
162
CONST EQUIP
ESP
657
657
GENERATORS
167
GENERATORS AND
ASSOCIATED EQUIP
106
106
MATERIAL HANDLING
EQUIPMENT
169
FAMILY OF
FORKLIFTS
1,885
1,885
OTHER SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
180
RAPID EQUIPPING
SOLDIER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
8,500
8,500
181
PHYSICAL SECURITY
SYSTEMS (OPA3)
3,248
3,248
185
BUILDING, PRE-FAB,
RELOCATABLE
31,845
31,845
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, ARMY
924,077
1,003,477
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
OTHER AIRCRAFT
24
STUASL0 UAV
7,921
7,921
MODIFICATION OF
AIRCRAFT
53
COMMON ECM
EQUIPMENT
3,474
3,474
55
COMMON DEFENSIVE
WEAPON SYSTEM
3,339
3,339
64
QRC
18,507
18,507
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
33,241
33,241
WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
TACTICAL MISSILES
12
HELLFIRE
5,572
5,572
TOTAL WEAPONS
PROCUREMENT, NAVY
5,572
5,572
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY &
MC
NAVY AMMUNITION
1
GENERAL PURPOSE
BOMBS
8,068
8,068
2
JDAM
15,529
15,529
3
AIRBORNE ROCKETS,
ALL TYPES
23,000
23,000
4
MACHINE GUN
AMMUNITION
22,600
22,600
6
CARTRIDGES &
CART ACTUATED DEVICES
3,927
3,927
7
AIR EXPENDABLE
COUNTERMEASURES
15,978
15,978
8
JATOS
2,100
2,100
11
OTHER SHIP GUN
AMMUNITION
2,611
2,611
12
SMALL ARMS &
LANDING PARTY AMMO
1,624
1,624
13
PYROTECHNIC AND
DEMOLITION
505
505
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
95,942
95,942
OTHER PROCUREMENT,
NAVY
SMALL BOATS
28
STANDARD
BOATS
19,104
19,104
OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
35
SMALL & MEDIUM
UUV
2,946
2,946
ASW ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT
43
FIXED SURVEILLANCE
SYSTEM
213,000
213,000
SONOBUOYS
92
SONOBUOYS—ALL
TYPES
26,196
26,196
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
95
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
60,217
60,217
OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
110
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE
DISPOSAL EQUIP
2,124
2,124
CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
115
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
177
177
116
GENERAL PURPOSE
TRUCKS
416
416
118
FIRE FIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
801
801
SUPPLY SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
125
FIRST DESTINATION
TRANSPORTATION
520
520
TRAINING DEVICES
128
TRAINING AND
EDUCATION EQUIPMENT
11,500
11,500
COMMAND SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
130
MEDICAL SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
3,525
3,525
136
PHYSICAL SECURITY
EQUIPMENT
3,000
3,000
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, NAVY
343,526
343,526
PROCUREMENT, MARINE
CORPS
GUIDED MISSILES
12
GUIDED MLRS ROCKET
(GMLRS)
17,456
17,456
OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
15
MODIFICATION
KITS
4,200
4,200
INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
(NON-TEL)
22
INTELLIGENCE
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
10,124
10,124
TACTICAL VEHICLES
38
MOTOR TRANSPORT
MODIFICATIONS
16,183
16,183
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
47,963
47,963
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
HELICOPTERS
13
COMBAT RESCUE
HELICOPTER
174,000
174,000
OTHER AIRCRAFT
20
MQ–9
142,490
142,490
21
RQ–20B PUMA
13,770
13,770
STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
26
LARGE AIRCRAFT
INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES
57,521
57,521
OTHER AIRCRAFT
46
U–2 MODS
9,600
9,600
55
COMPASS
CALL
12,800
12,800
66
HC/MC–130
MODIFICATIONS
58,020
58,020
69
MQ–9 UAS
PAYLOADS
46,100
46,100
70
CV–22 MODS
6,290
6,290
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
71
INITIAL
SPARES/REPAIR PARTS
10,700
10,700
72
MQ–9
12,250
12,250
COMMON SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
73
AIRCRAFT
REPLACEMENT SUPPORT EQUIP
25,614
25,614
TOTAL
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
569,155
569,155
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
TACTICAL
4
JOINT AIR-SURFACE
STANDOFF MISSILE
30,000
30,000
8
PREDATOR HELLFIRE
MISSILE
143,420
143,420
9
SMALL DIAMETER
BOMB
50,352
50,352
TOTAL MISSILE
PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
223,772
223,772
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
FORCE
ROCKETS
1
ROCKETS
19,489
19,489
CARTRIDGES
2
CARTRIDGES
40,434
40,434
BOMBS
4
GENERAL PURPOSE
BOMBS
369,566
369,566
6
JOINT DIRECT ATTACK
MUNITION
237,723
237,723
FLARES
15
FLARES
21,171
21,171
FUZES
16
FUZES
107,855
107,855
SMALL ARMS
17
SMALL ARMS
6,217
6,217
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
802,455
802,455
OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR
FORCE
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
1
PASSENGER CARRYING
VEHICLES
1,302
1,302
CARGO AND UTILITY
VEHICLES
2
MEDIUM TACTICAL
VEHICLE
3,400
3,400
4
CARGO AND UTILITY
VEHICLES
12,475
12,475
SPECIAL PURPOSE
VEHICLES
5
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE
26,150
26,150
7
SPECIAL PURPOSE
VEHICLES
51,254
51,254
FIRE FIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
8
FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH
RESCUE VEHICLES
24,903
24,903
MATERIALS HANDLING
EQUIPMENT
9
MATERIALS HANDLING
VEHICLES
14,167
14,167
BASE MAINTENANCE
SUPPORT
10
RUNWAY SNOW REMOV
AND CLEANING EQU
5,759
5,759
11
BASE MAINTENANCE
SUPPORT VEHICLES
20,653
20,653
SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
PROJECTS
26
GENERAL INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
5,100
5,100
30
AIR FORCE PHYSICAL
SECURITY SYSTEM
56,496
56,496
ORGANIZATION AND
BASE
49
BASE COMM
INFRASTRUCTURE
30,717
30,717
BASE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
55
ENGINEERING AND EOD
EQUIPMENT
13,172
13,172
56
MOBILITY
EQUIPMENT
33,694
33,694
57
FUELS SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT (FSE)
1,777
1,777
58
BASE MAINTENANCE
AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
31,620
31,620
SPECIAL SUPPORT
PROJECTS
61
DCGS-AF
18,700
18,700
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
65
SPARES AND REPAIR
PARTS
4,000
4,000
TOTAL OTHER
PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
355,339
355,339
PROCUREMENT,
DEFENSE-WIDE
MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
DISA
16
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEM NETWORK
6,120
6,120
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
REDUCTION AGENCY
30
COUNTER IMPROVISED
THREAT TECHNOLOGIES
2,540
2,540
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
3,500
3,500
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
AVIATION PROGRAMS
56
MANNED ISR
5,000
5,000
57
MC–12
5,000
5,000
60
UNMANNED
ISR
8,207
8,207
AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
70
ORDNANCE ITEMS
<$5M
105,355
105,355
OTHER PROCUREMENT
PROGRAMS
71
INTELLIGENCE
SYSTEMS
16,234
16,234
73
OTHER ITEMS
<$5M
984
984
76
TACTICAL
VEHICLES
2,990
2,990
77
WARRIOR SYSTEMS
<$5M
32,573
32,573
78
COMBAT MISSION
REQUIREMENTS
10,000
10,000
80
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE
6,724
6,724
81
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS
53,264
53,264
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
258,491
258,491
TOTAL
PROCUREMENT
5,128,098
5,030,913
XLII
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
4201.
Research, development, test, and evaluation
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, ARMY
BASIC RESEARCH
2
0601102A
DEFENSE RESEARCH
SCIENCES
303,257
315,257
AI human performance optimization
[2,000]
Increase in basic research
[10,000]
3
0601103A
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
INITIATIVES
67,148
67,148
4
0601104A
UNIVERSITY AND
INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTERS
87,877
87,877
5
0601121A
CYBER COLLABORATIVE
RESEARCH ALLIANCE
5,077
5,077
SUBTOTAL
BASIC RESEARCH
463,359
475,359
APPLIED RESEARCH
7
0602115A
BIOMEDICAL
TECHNOLOGY
11,835
15,835
Pandemic vaccine response
[4,000]
11
0602134A
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED STUDIES
2,000
2,000
12
0602141A
LETHALITY
TECHNOLOGY
42,425
45,425
Hybrid additive manufacturing
[3,000]
13
0602142A
ARMY APPLIED
RESEARCH
30,757
33,757
Pathfinder Air Assault
[3,000]
14
0602143A
SOLDIER LETHALITY
TECHNOLOGY
125,435
135,935
Harnessing Emerging Research Opportunities to
Empower Soldiers Program
[2,500]
Metal-based display technologies
[3,000]
Pathfinder Airborne
[5,000]
15
0602144A
GROUND
TECHNOLOGY
28,047
30,047
Ground technology advanced manufacturing,
materials and process initiative
[2,000]
16
0602145A
NEXT GENERATION
COMBAT VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
217,565
227,565
Ground combat vehicle platform
electrification
[2,000]
Immersive virtual modeling and simulation
techniques
[5,000]
Next Generation Combat Vehicle modeling and
simulation
[3,000]
17
0602146A
NETWORK C3I
TECHNOLOGY
114,404
126,404
Backpackable Communications Intelligence
System
[5,000]
Defense resiliency platform against extreme
cold weather
[3,000]
Multi-drone multi-sensor ISR
capability
[2,000]
Quantum computing base materials
optimization
[2,000]
18
0602147A
LONG RANGE
PRECISION FIRES TECHNOLOGY
60,553
67,553
Composite artillery tube and propulsion
prototyping
[7,000]
19
0602148A
FUTURE VERTICLE
LIFT TECHNOLOGY
96,484
96,484
20
0602150A
AIR AND MISSILE
DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY
56,298
66,298
Counter unmanned aerial systems threat
R&D
[5,000]
Counter unmanned aircraft systems
research
[5,000]
22
0602213A
C3I APPLIED
CYBER
18,816
18,816
40
0602785A
MANPOWER/PERSONNEL/TRAINING TECHNOLOGY
20,766
20,766
42
0602787A
MEDICAL
TECHNOLOGY
95,496
97,496
Research for coronavirus vaccine
[2,000]
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
920,881
984,381
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
44
0603002A
MEDICAL ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY
38,896
38,896
49
0603007A
MANPOWER, PERSONNEL
AND TRAINING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
11,659
11,659
52
0603115A
MEDICAL
DEVELOPMENT
27,723
27,723
53
0603117A
ARMY ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
62,663
62,663
54
0603118A
SOLDIER LETHALITY
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
109,608
111,608
3D advanced manufacturing
[2,000]
55
0603119A
GROUND ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY
14,795
20,795
Cybersecurity for industrial control systems
and building automation
[3,000]
Graphene applications for military
engineering
[3,000]
59
0603134A
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT SIMULATION
25,000
25,000
63
0603457A
C3I CYBER ADVANCED
DEVELOPMENT
23,357
23,357
64
0603461A
HIGH PERFORMANCE
COMPUTING MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
188,024
193,024
High performance computing
modernization
[5,000]
65
0603462A
NEXT GENERATION
COMBAT VEHICLE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
199,358
226,858
Carbon fiber and graphitic composites
[10,000]
Cyber and connected vehicle innovation
research
[5,000]
Small unit ground robotic
capabilities
[7,500]
Virtual experimentations enhancement
[5,000]
66
0603463A
NETWORK C3I
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
158,608
158,608
67
0603464A
LONG RANGE
PRECISION FIRES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
121,060
124,060
Hyper velocity projectile—extended range
technologies
[3,000]
68
0603465A
FUTURE VERTICAL
LIFT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
156,194
156,194
69
0603466A
AIR AND MISSILE
DEFENSE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
58,130
73,630
Electromagnetic effects research to support
fires and AMD CFTs
[5,000]
High-energy laser system characterization
lab
[10,500]
77
0603920A
HUMANITARIAN
DEMINING
8,515
8,515
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
1,203,590
1,262,590
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
78
0603305A
ARMY MISSLE DEFENSE
SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
11,062
14,062
Hypersonic hot air tunnel test
environment
[3,000]
79
0603308A
ARMY SPACE SYSTEMS
INTEGRATION
26,230
26,230
80
0603327A
AIR AND MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
26,482
26,482
81
0603619A
LANDMINE WARFARE
AND BARRIER—ADV DEV
64,092
64,092
83
0603639A
TANK AND MEDIUM
CALIBER AMMUNITION
92,753
92,753
84
0603645A
ARMORED SYSTEM
MODERNIZATION—ADV DEV
151,478
151,478
85
0603747A
SOLDIER SUPPORT AND
SURVIVABILITY
5,841
5,841
86
0603766A
TACTICAL ELECTRONIC
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM—ADV DEV
194,775
194,775
87
0603774A
NIGHT VISION
SYSTEMS ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
24,316
24,316
88
0603779A
ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—DEM/VAL
13,387
13,387
89
0603790A
NATO RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
4,762
4,762
90
0603801A
AVIATION—ADV
DEV
647,937
652,937
Future Long Range Assault Aircraft
(FLRAA)
[5,000]
91
0603804A
LOGISTICS AND
ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ADV DEV
4,761
4,761
92
0603807A
MEDICAL SYSTEMS—ADV
DEV
28,520
28,520
93
0603827A
SOLDIER
SYSTEMS—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
26,138
26,138
94
0604017A
ROBOTICS
DEVELOPMENT
121,207
121,207
96
0604021A
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
TECHNOLOGY MATURATION (MIP)
22,840
22,840
97
0604035A
LOW EARTH ORBIT
(LEO) SATELLITE CAPABILITY
22,678
22,678
98
0604100A
ANALYSIS OF
ALTERNATIVES
10,082
10,082
99
0604101A
SMALL UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.4)
1,378
1,378
100
0604113A
FUTURE TACTICAL
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (FTUAS)
40,083
40,083
101
0604114A
LOWER TIER AIR
MISSILE DEFENSE (LTAMD) SENSOR
376,373
376,373
102
0604115A
TECHNOLOGY
MATURATION INITIATIVES
156,834
146,834
OpFires lack of transition pathway
[–10,000]
103
0604117A
MANEUVER—SHORT
RANGE AIR DEFENSE (M-SHORAD)
4,995
4,995
105
0604119A
ARMY ADVANCED
COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPING
170,490
170,490
106
0604120A
ASSURED
POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING (PNT)
128,125
128,125
107
0604121A
SYNTHETIC TRAINING
ENVIRONMENT REFINEMENT & PROTOTYPING
129,547
129,547
108
0604134A
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT, AND
TESTING
13,831
13,831
109
0604182A
HYPERSONICS
801,417
796,417
Lack of hypersonic prototyping
coordination
[–5,000]
111
0604403A
FUTURE
INTERCEPTOR
7,992
7,992
112
0604541A
UNIFIED NETWORK
TRANSPORT
40,677
40,677
115
0305251A
CYBERSPACE
OPERATIONS FORCES AND FORCE SUPPORT
50,525
50,525
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
3,421,608
3,414,608
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
118
0604201A
AIRCRAFT
AVIONICS
2,764
2,764
119
0604270A
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT
62,426
62,426
121
0604601A
INFANTRY SUPPORT
WEAPONS
91,574
91,574
122
0604604A
MEDIUM TACTICAL
VEHICLES
8,523
8,523
123
0604611A
JAVELIN
7,493
7,493
124
0604622A
FAMILY OF HEAVY
TACTICAL VEHICLES
24,792
24,792
125
0604633A
AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROL
3,511
3,511
126
0604642A
LIGHT TACTICAL
WHEELED VEHICLES
1,976
1,976
127
0604645A
ARMORED SYSTEMS
MODERNIZATION (ASM)—ENG DEV
135,488
135,488
128
0604710A
NIGHT VISION
SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
61,445
61,445
129
0604713A
COMBAT FEEDING,
CLOTHING, AND EQUIPMENT
2,814
2,814
130
0604715A
NON-SYSTEM TRAINING
DEVICES—ENG DEV
28,036
28,036
131
0604741A
AIR DEFENSE
COMMAND, CONTROL AND INTELLIGENCE—ENG DEV
43,651
83,651
Joint Counter-UAS Office acceleration
[17,500]
Joint Counter-UAS Office SOCOM advanced
capabilities
[7,500]
Joint Counter-UAS Office SOCOM
demonstrations
[15,000]
132
0604742A
CONSTRUCTIVE
SIMULATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
10,150
10,150
133
0604746A
AUTOMATIC TEST
EQUIPMENT DEVELOPMENT
5,578
5,578
134
0604760A
DISTRIBUTIVE
INTERACTIVE SIMULATIONS (DIS)—ENG DEV
7,892
7,892
135
0604768A
BRILLIANT
ANTI-ARMOR SUBMUNITION (BAT)
24,975
24,975
136
0604780A
COMBINED ARMS
TACTICAL TRAINER (CATT) CORE
3,568
3,568
137
0604798A
BRIGADE ANALYSIS,
INTEGRATION AND EVALUATION
19,268
19,268
138
0604802A
WEAPONS AND
MUNITIONS—ENG DEV
265,811
266,611
Increase NGSW soldier touchpoints
[800]
139
0604804A
LOGISTICS AND
ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV
49,694
49,694
140
0604805A
COMMAND, CONTROL,
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
11,079
11,079
141
0604807A
MEDICAL
MATERIEL/MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV
49,870
49,870
142
0604808A
LANDMINE
WARFARE/BARRIER—ENG DEV
9,589
9,589
143
0604818A
ARMY TACTICAL
COMMAND & CONTROL HARDWARE & SOFTWARE
162,513
162,513
144
0604820A
RADAR
DEVELOPMENT
109,259
109,259
145
0604822A
GENERAL FUND
ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEM (GFEBS)
21,201
21,201
146
0604823A
FIREFINDER
20,008
20,008
147
0604827A
SOLDIER
SYSTEMS—WARRIOR DEM/VAL
6,534
6,534
148
0604852A
SUITE OF
SURVIVABILITY ENHANCEMENT SYSTEMS—EMD
82,459
129,459
Bradley and Stryker APS
[47,000]
149
0604854A
ARTILLERY
SYSTEMS—EMD
11,611
11,611
150
0605013A
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
142,678
147,678
Integrated data software pilot
program
[5,000]
151
0605018A
INTEGRATED
PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPPS-A)
115,286
115,286
152
0605028A
ARMORED
MULTI-PURPOSE VEHICLE (AMPV)
96,594
96,594
154
0605030A
JOINT TACTICAL
NETWORK CENTER (JTNC)
16,264
16,264
155
0605031A
JOINT TACTICAL
NETWORK (JTN)
31,696
31,696
157
0605033A
GROUND-BASED
OPERATIONAL SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM—EXPEDITIONARY (GBOSS-E)
5,976
5,976
159
0605035A
COMMON INFRARED
COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
23,321
23,321
161
0605038A
NUCLEAR BIOLOGICAL
CHEMICAL RECONNAISSANCE VEHICLE (NBCRV) SENSOR SUITE
4,846
4,846
162
0605041A
DEFENSIVE CYBER
TOOL DEVELOPMENT
28,544
16,544
Army Cyber SU program
[–12,000]
163
0605042A
TACTICAL NETWORK
RADIO SYSTEMS (LOW-TIER)
28,178
28,178
164
0605047A
CONTRACT WRITING
SYSTEM
22,860
22,860
166
0605051A
AIRCRAFT
SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT
35,893
35,893
167
0605052A
INDIRECT FIRE
PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2—BLOCK 1
235,770
187,970
Army-identified funding early to need
[–47,800]
168
0605053A
GROUND
ROBOTICS
13,710
13,710
169
0605054A
EMERGING TECHNOLOGY
INITIATIVES
294,739
294,739
170
0605145A
MEDICAL PRODUCTS
AND SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
954
954
171
0605203A
ARMY SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
150,201
150,201
172
0605205A
SMALL UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.5)
5,999
5,999
174
0605450A
JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND
MISSILE (JAGM)
8,891
8,891
175
0605457A
ARMY INTEGRATED AIR
AND MISSILE DEFENSE (AIAMD)
193,929
193,929
176
0605625A
MANNED GROUND
VEHICLE
327,732
247,732
OMFV program reset
[–80,000]
177
0605766A
NATIONAL
CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION (MIP)
7,670
7,670
178
0605812A
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) ENGINEERING AND MANUFACTURING
DEVELOPMENT PH
1,742
1,742
179
0605830A
AVIATION GROUND
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
1,467
1,467
180
0303032A
TROJAN—RH12
3,451
3,451
183
0304270A
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT
55,855
55,855
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
3,199,798
3,152,798
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
185
0604256A
THREAT SIMULATOR
DEVELOPMENT
14,515
14,515
186
0604258A
TARGET SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
10,668
10,668
187
0604759A
MAJOR T&E
INVESTMENT
106,270
106,270
188
0605103A
RAND ARROYO
CENTER
13,481
13,481
189
0605301A
ARMY KWAJALEIN
ATOLL
231,824
231,824
190
0605326A
CONCEPTS
EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM
54,898
54,898
192
0605601A
ARMY TEST RANGES
AND FACILITIES
350,359
365,359
Program increase—Army directed energy
T&E
[15,000]
193
0605602A
ARMY TECHNICAL TEST
INSTRUMENTATION AND TARGETS
48,475
48,475
194
0605604A
SURVIVABILITY/LETHALITY ANALYSIS
36,001
36,001
195
0605606A
AIRCRAFT
CERTIFICATION
2,736
2,736
196
0605702A
METEOROLOGICAL
SUPPORT TO RDT&E ACTIVITIES
6,488
6,488
197
0605706A
MATERIEL SYSTEMS
ANALYSIS
21,859
21,859
198
0605709A
EXPLOITATION OF
FOREIGN ITEMS
7,936
7,936
199
0605712A
SUPPORT OF
OPERATIONAL TESTING
54,470
54,470
200
0605716A
ARMY EVALUATION
CENTER
63,141
63,141
201
0605718A
ARMY MODELING &
SIM X-CMD COLLABORATION & INTEG
2,572
2,572
202
0605801A
PROGRAMWIDE
ACTIVITIES
87,472
87,472
203
0605803A
TECHNICAL
INFORMATION ACTIVITIES
26,244
26,244
204
0605805A
MUNITIONS
STANDARDIZATION, EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY
40,133
40,133
205
0605857A
ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY TECHNOLOGY MGMT SUPPORT
1,780
1,780
206
0605898A
ARMY DIRECT REPORT
HEADQUARTERS—R&D - MHA
55,045
55,045
208
0606002A
RONALD REAGAN
BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST SITE
71,306
71,306
209
0606003A
COUNTERINTEL AND
HUMAN INTEL MODERNIZATION
1,063
1,063
210
0606105A
MEDICAL
PROGRAM-WIDE ACTIVITIES
19,891
19,891
211
0606942A
ASSESSMENTS AND
EVALUATIONS CYBER VULNERABILITIES
4,496
4,496
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1,333,123
1,348,123
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
214
0603778A
MLRS PRODUCT
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
10,157
10,157
216
0605024A
ANTI-TAMPER
TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
8,682
8,682
217
0607131A
WEAPONS AND
MUNITIONS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
20,409
20,409
219
0607134A
LONG RANGE
PRECISION FIRES (LRPF)
122,733
115,233
Excess funds due to second vendor
dropped
[–7,500]
221
0607136A
BLACKHAWK PRODUCT
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
11,236
11,236
222
0607137A
CHINOOK PRODUCT
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
46,091
46,091
224
0607139A
IMPROVED TURBINE
ENGINE PROGRAM
249,257
249,257
225
0607142A
AVIATION ROCKET
SYSTEM PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
17,155
17,155
226
0607143A
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SYSTEM UNIVERSAL PRODUCTS
7,743
7,743
227
0607145A
APACHE FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT
77,177
77,177
228
0607150A
INTEL CYBER
DEVELOPMENT
14,652
14,652
229
0607312A
ARMY OPERATIONAL
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
35,851
35,851
230
0607665A
FAMILY OF
BIOMETRICS
1,324
1,324
231
0607865A
PATRIOT PRODUCT
IMPROVEMENT
187,840
187,840
232
0203728A
JOINT AUTOMATED
DEEP OPERATION COORDINATION SYSTEM (JADOCS)
44,691
44,691
233
0203735A
COMBAT VEHICLE
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
268,919
268,919
234
0203743A
155MM
SELF-PROPELLED HOWITZER IMPROVEMENTS
427,254
427,254
235
0203744A
AIRCRAFT
MODIFICATIONS/PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
11,688
11,688
236
0203752A
AIRCRAFT ENGINE
COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
80
80
237
0203758A
DIGITIZATION
4,516
4,516
238
0203801A
MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE
PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
1,288
1,288
239
0203802A
OTHER MISSILE
PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
79,424
79,424
243
0205412A
ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV
259
259
244
0205456A
LOWER TIER AIR AND
MISSILE DEFENSE (AMD) SYSTEM
166
166
245
0205778A
GUIDED
MULTIPLE-LAUNCH ROCKET SYSTEM (GMLRS)
75,575
93,075
Qualification of second SRM source
[17,500]
246
0208053A
JOINT TACTICAL
GROUND SYSTEM
9,510
9,510
249
0303140A
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
29,270
29,270
250
0303141A
GLOBAL COMBAT
SUPPORT SYSTEM
86,908
86,908
251
0303142A
SATCOM GROUND
ENVIRONMENT (SPACE)
18,684
18,684
256
0305179A
INTEGRATED
BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)
467
467
257
0305204A
TACTICAL UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLES
4,051
4,051
258
0305206A
AIRBORNE
RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
13,283
13,283
259
0305208A
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
47,204
47,204
264
0708045A
END ITEM INDUSTRIAL
PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES
61,012
78,512
Functional fabrics manufacturing
[7,500]
Nanoscale materials manufacturing
[5,000]
Tungsten manufacturing for armanents
[5,000]
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
3,983
3,983
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
1,998,539
2,026,039
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
PILOT PROGRAMS
267
0608041A
DEFENSIVE
CYBER—SOFTWARE PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT
46,445
46,445
SUBTOTAL
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT
PROGRAMS
46,445
46,445
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY
12,587,343
12,710,343
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, NAVY
BASIC RESEARCH
1
0601103N
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
INITIATIVES
116,816
118,816
Defense University Research and
Instrumentation Program
[2,000]
2
0601152N
IN-HOUSE LABORATORY
INDEPENDENT RESEARCH
19,113
19,113
3
0601153N
DEFENSE RESEARCH
SCIENCES
467,158
480,158
Increase in basic research
[10,000]
Predictive modeling for undersea
vehicles
[3,000]
SUBTOTAL
BASIC RESEARCH
603,087
618,087
APPLIED RESEARCH
4
0602114N
POWER PROJECTION
APPLIED RESEARCH
17,792
17,792
5
0602123N
FORCE PROTECTION
APPLIED RESEARCH
122,281
140,281
Direct air capture and blue carbon removal
technology program
[8,000]
Electric propulsion for military craft and
advanced planning hulls
[2,000]
Expeditionary unmanned systems launch and
recovery
[5,000]
Testbed for autonomous ship systems
[3,000]
6
0602131M
MARINE CORPS
LANDING FORCE TECHNOLOGY
50,623
53,623
Interdisciplinary cybersecurity
research
[3,000]
7
0602235N
COMMON PICTURE
APPLIED RESEARCH
48,001
48,001
8
0602236N
WARFIGHTER
SUSTAINMENT APPLIED RESEARCH
67,765
74,765
Humanoid robotics research
[4,000]
Social networks and computational social
science
[3,000]
9
0602271N
ELECTROMAGNETIC
SYSTEMS APPLIED RESEARCH
84,994
84,994
10
0602435N
OCEAN WARFIGHTING
ENVIRONMENT APPLIED RESEARCH
63,392
63,392
11
0602651M
JOINT NON-LETHAL
WEAPONS APPLIED RESEARCH
6,343
6,343
12
0602747N
UNDERSEA WARFARE
APPLIED RESEARCH
56,397
63,897
Navy and academia submarine
partnerships
[7,500]
13
0602750N
FUTURE NAVAL
CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH
167,590
167,590
14
0602782N
MINE AND
EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH
30,715
30,715
15
0602792N
INNOVATIVE NAVAL
PROTOTYPES (INP) APPLIED RESEARCH
160,537
167,837
Thermoplastic materials
[7,300]
16
0602861N
SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT—ONR FIELD ACITIVITIES
76,745
76,745
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
953,175
995,975
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
17
0603123N
FORCE PROTECTION
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
24,410
24,410
18
0603271N
ELECTROMAGNETIC
SYSTEMS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
8,008
8,008
19
0603640M
USMC ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION (ATD)
219,045
222,045
Mission planning advanced technology
demonstration
[3,000]
20
0603651M
JOINT NON-LETHAL
WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
13,301
13,301
21
0603673N
FUTURE NAVAL
CAPABILITIES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
246,054
246,054
22
0603680N
MANUFACTURING
TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
60,122
60,122
23
0603729N
WARFIGHTER
PROTECTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
4,851
4,851
24
0603758N
NAVY WARFIGHTING
EXPERIMENTS AND DEMONSTRATIONS
40,709
40,709
25
0603782N
MINE AND
EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
1,948
1,948
26
0603801N
INNOVATIVE NAVAL
PROTOTYPES (INP) ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
141,948
141,948
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
760,396
763,396
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
27
0603178N
MEDIUM AND LARGE
UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES (USVS)
464,042
0
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory
testing
[–464,042]
28
0603207N
AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL
APPLICATIONS
35,386
35,386
29
0603216N
AVIATION
SURVIVABILITY
13,428
13,428
30
0603239N
ISO NAVAL
CONSTRUCTION FORCES
2,350
2,350
31
0603251N
AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS
418
418
32
0603254N
ASW SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
15,719
15,719
33
0603261N
TACTICAL AIRBORNE
RECONNAISSANCE
3,411
3,411
34
0603382N
ADVANCED COMBAT
SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY
70,218
56,118
Project 3416: HIJENKS insufficient schedule
justification
[–7,000]
Project 3422: SHARC excess platforms ahead of
satisfactory testing
[–7,100]
35
0603502N
SURFACE AND SHALLOW
WATER MINE COUNTERMEASURES
52,358
24,158
Project 2989: Barracuda program delay
[–28,200]
36
0603506N
SURFACE SHIP
TORPEDO DEFENSE
12,816
12,816
37
0603512N
CARRIER SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
7,559
7,559
38
0603525N
PILOT FISH
358,757
358,757
39
0603527N
RETRACT
LARCH
12,562
12,562
40
0603536N
RETRACT
JUNIPER
148,000
148,000
41
0603542N
RADIOLOGICAL
CONTROL
778
778
42
0603553N
SURFACE ASW
1,161
1,161
43
0603561N
ADVANCED SUBMARINE
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
185,356
195,356
Out-of-autoclave submarine technology
development
[20,000]
Project 9710: EDMs early to need
[–10,000]
44
0603562N
SUBMARINE TACTICAL
WARFARE SYSTEMS
10,528
10,528
45
0603563N
SHIP CONCEPT
ADVANCED DESIGN
126,396
63,296
Project 2196: Future surface combatant early
to need
[–19,100]
Project 3161: Program increase for CBM+
initiative
[16,000]
Project 4044: Medium amphibious ship early to
need
[–30,000]
Project 4045: Medium logistics ship early to
need
[–30,000]
46
0603564N
SHIP PRELIMINARY
DESIGN & FEASIBILITY STUDIES
70,270
28,970
Project 0411: LSC preliminary design and CDD
early to need
[–41,300]
47
0603570N
ADVANCED NUCLEAR
POWER SYSTEMS
149,188
149,188
48
0603573N
ADVANCED SURFACE
MACHINERY SYSTEMS
38,449
238,449
Accelerate ITF to achieve full test
capability in FY23
[75,000]
Accelerate qualification of silicon carbide
power modules
[10,000]
USV autonomy development
[45,000]
USV engine and generator qualification
testing
[70,000]
49
0603576N
CHALK EAGLE
71,181
71,181
50
0603581N
LITTORAL COMBAT
SHIP (LCS)
32,178
27,178
Project 3096: Available prior year
funds
[–5,000]
51
0603582N
COMBAT SYSTEM
INTEGRATION
17,843
17,843
52
0603595N
OHIO
REPLACEMENT
317,196
317,196
53
0603596N
LCS MISSION
MODULES
67,875
32,875
Project 2550: LCS MCM MP outdated IMS and
TEMP
[–20,000]
Project 2551: LCS ASW MP available prior year
funds due to testing delays
[–15,000]
54
0603597N
AUTOMATED TEST AND
ANALYSIS
4,797
4,797
55
0603599N
FRIGATE
DEVELOPMENT
82,309
82,309
56
0603609N
CONVENTIONAL
MUNITIONS
9,922
2,122
Project 0363: Insufficient
justification
[–7,800]
57
0603635M
MARINE CORPS GROUND
COMBAT/SUPPORT SYSTEM
189,603
189,603
58
0603654N
JOINT SERVICE
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
43,084
43,084
59
0603713N
OCEAN ENGINEERING
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
6,346
6,346
60
0603721N
ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION
20,601
20,601
61
0603724N
NAVY ENERGY
PROGRAM
23,422
23,422
62
0603725N
FACILITIES
IMPROVEMENT
4,664
4,664
63
0603734N
CHALK CORAL
545,763
545,763
64
0603739N
NAVY LOGISTIC
PRODUCTIVITY
3,884
3,884
65
0603746N
RETRACT
MAPLE
353,226
353,226
66
0603748N
LINK
PLUMERIA
544,388
544,388
67
0603751N
RETRACT ELM
86,730
86,730
68
0603764M
LINK
EVERGREEN
236,234
236,234
70
0603790N
NATO RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
6,880
6,880
71
0603795N
LAND ATTACK
TECHNOLOGY
10,578
10,578
72
0603851M
JOINT NON-LETHAL
WEAPONS TESTING
28,435
28,435
73
0603860N
JOINT PRECISION
APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEMS—DEM/VAL
33,612
33,612
74
0603925N
DIRECTED ENERGY AND
ELECTRIC WEAPON SYSTEMS
128,845
113,845
Project 3402: Excess engineering and
sustainment support
[–15,000]
75
0604014N
F/A –18 INFRARED
SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST)
84,190
84,190
76
0604027N
DIGITAL WARFARE
OFFICE
54,699
54,699
77
0604028N
SMALL AND MEDIUM
UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES
53,942
53,942
78
0604029N
UNMANNED UNDERSEA
VEHICLE CORE TECHNOLOGIES
40,060
40,060
79
0604030N
RAPID PROTOTYPING,
EXPERIMENTATION AND DEMONSTRATION.
12,100
12,100
80
0604031N
LARGE UNMANNED
UNDERSEA VEHICLES
78,122
42,122
Project 2094: Excess procurement ahead of
phase 1 testing
[–36,000]
81
0604112N
GERALD R. FORD
CLASS NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT CARRIER (CVN 78—80)
107,895
107,895
82
0604126N
LITTORAL AIRBORNE
MCM
17,366
17,366
83
0604127N
SURFACE MINE
COUNTERMEASURES
18,754
18,754
84
0604272N
TACTICAL AIR
DIRECTIONAL INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (TADIRCM)
59,776
59,776
86
0604292N
FUTURE VERTICAL
LIFT (MARITIME STRIKE)
5,097
5,097
87
0604320M
RAPID TECHNOLOGY
CAPABILITY PROTOTYPE
3,664
3,664
88
0604454N
LX (R)
10,203
10,203
89
0604536N
ADVANCED UNDERSEA
PROTOTYPING
115,858
95,858
Orca UUV testing delay and uncertified test
strategy
[–10,000]
Snakehead UUV uncertified test
strategy
[–10,000]
90
0604636N
COUNTER UNMANNED
AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS (C-UAS)
14,259
14,259
91
0604659N
PRECISION STRIKE
WEAPONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1,102,387
1,045,387
Lack of hypersonic prototyping
coordination
[–5,000]
Project 3334: Excess Virginia-class CPS
modification and installation costs
[–52,000]
92
0604707N
SPACE AND
ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) ARCHITECTURE/ENGINEERING
SUPPORT
7,657
7,657
93
0604786N
OFFENSIVE
ANTI-SURFACE WARFARE WEAPON DEVELOPMENT
35,750
35,750
94
0303354N
ASW SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT—MIP
9,151
9,151
95
0304240M
ADVANCED TACTICAL
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
22,589
22,589
97
0304270N
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT—MIP
809
809
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
6,503,074
5,926,532
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
98
0603208N
TRAINING SYSTEM
AIRCRAFT
4,332
4,332
99
0604212N
OTHER HELO
DEVELOPMENT
18,133
23,133
Program increase for Attack and Utility
Replacement Aircraft
[5,000]
100
0604214M
AV–8B AIRCRAFT—ENG
DEV
20,054
20,054
101
0604215N
STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT
4,237
4,237
102
0604216N
MULTI-MISSION
HELICOPTER UPGRADE DEVELOPMENT
27,340
27,340
104
0604221N
P–3 MODERNIZATION
PROGRAM
606
606
105
0604230N
WARFARE SUPPORT
SYSTEM
9,065
9,065
106
0604231N
TACTICAL COMMAND
SYSTEM
97,968
97,968
107
0604234N
ADVANCED
HAWKEYE
309,373
309,373
108
0604245M
H–1
UPGRADES
62,310
62,310
109
0604261N
ACOUSTIC SEARCH
SENSORS
47,182
47,182
110
0604262N
V–22A
132,624
132,624
111
0604264N
AIR CREW SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
21,445
21,445
112
0604269N
EA–18
106,134
106,134
113
0604270N
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT
134,194
134,194
114
0604273M
EXECUTIVE HELO
DEVELOPMENT
99,321
99,321
115
0604274N
NEXT GENERATION
JAMMER (NGJ)
477,680
477,680
116
0604280N
JOINT TACTICAL
RADIO SYSTEM—NAVY (JTRS-NAVY)
232,818
232,818
117
0604282N
NEXT GENERATION
JAMMER (NGJ) INCREMENT II
170,039
170,039
118
0604307N
SURFACE COMBATANT
COMBAT SYSTEM ENGINEERING
403,712
403,712
119
0604311N
LPD–17 CLASS
SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
945
945
120
0604329N
SMALL DIAMETER BOMB
(SDB)
62,488
62,488
121
0604366N
STANDARD MISSILE
IMPROVEMENTS
386,225
386,225
122
0604373N
AIRBORNE
MCM
10,909
10,909
123
0604378N
NAVAL INTEGRATED
FIRE CONTROL—COUNTER AIR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
44,548
44,548
124
0604419N
ADVANCED SENSORS
APPLICATION PROGRAM (ASAP)
13,673
13,673
125
0604501N
ADVANCED ABOVE
WATER SENSORS
87,809
87,809
126
0604503N
SSN–688 AND TRIDENT
MODERNIZATION
93,097
93,097
127
0604504N
AIR CONTROL
38,863
38,863
128
0604512N
SHIPBOARD AVIATION
SYSTEMS
9,593
9,593
129
0604518N
COMBAT INFORMATION
CENTER CONVERSION
12,718
12,718
130
0604522N
AIR AND MISSILE
DEFENSE RADAR (AMDR) SYSTEM
78,319
78,319
131
0604530N
ADVANCED ARRESTING
GEAR (AAG)
65,834
65,834
132
0604558N
NEW DESIGN
SSN
259,443
259,443
133
0604562N
SUBMARINE TACTICAL
WARFARE SYSTEM
63,878
58,878
AN/BYG–1 APB17 and APB19 testing
delays
[–5,000]
134
0604567N
SHIP CONTRACT
DESIGN/ LIVE FIRE T&E
51,853
66,753
Advanced degaussing DDG–51 retrofit and
demonstration
[14,900]
135
0604574N
NAVY TACTICAL
COMPUTER RESOURCES
3,853
3,853
136
0604601N
MINE
DEVELOPMENT
92,607
92,607
137
0604610N
LIGHTWEIGHT TORPEDO
DEVELOPMENT
146,012
116,012
Project 1412: HAAWC operational testing
delays
[–10,000]
Project 3418: Mk 54 Mod 2 contract
delays
[–20,000]
138
0604654N
JOINT SERVICE
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
8,383
8,383
139
0604657M
USMC GROUND
COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
33,784
33,784
140
0604703N
PERSONNEL,
TRAINING, SIMULATION, AND HUMAN FACTORS
8,599
8,599
141
0604727N
JOINT STANDOFF
WEAPON SYSTEMS
73,744
73,744
142
0604755N
SHIP SELF DEFENSE
(DETECT & CONTROL)
157,490
157,490
143
0604756N
SHIP SELF DEFENSE
(ENGAGE: HARD KILL)
121,761
121,761
144
0604757N
SHIP SELF DEFENSE
(ENGAGE: SOFT KILL/EW)
89,373
89,373
145
0604761N
INTELLIGENCE
ENGINEERING
15,716
15,716
146
0604771N
MEDICAL
DEVELOPMENT
2,120
2,120
147
0604777N
NAVIGATION/ID
SYSTEM
50,180
50,180
148
0604800M
JOINT STRIKE
FIGHTER (JSF)—EMD
561
561
149
0604800N
JOINT STRIKE
FIGHTER (JSF)—EMD
250
250
150
0604850N
SSN(X)
1,000
1,000
151
0605013M
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
974
974
152
0605013N
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
356,173
356,173
153
0605024N
ANTI-TAMPER
TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
7,810
7,810
154
0605212M
CH–53K RDTE
406,406
406,406
155
0605215N
MISSION
PLANNING
86,134
86,134
156
0605217N
COMMON
AVIONICS
54,540
54,540
157
0605220N
SHIP TO SHORE
CONNECTOR (SSC)
5,155
5,155
158
0605327N
T-AO 205
CLASS
5,148
5,148
159
0605414N
UNMANNED CARRIER
AVIATION (UCA)
266,970
266,970
160
0605450M
JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND
MISSILE (JAGM)
12,713
12,713
161
0605500N
MULTI-MISSION
MARITIME AIRCRAFT (MMA)
24,424
24,424
162
0605504N
MULTI-MISSION
MARITIME (MMA) INCREMENT III
182,870
182,870
163
0605611M
MARINE CORPS
ASSAULT VEHICLES SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
41,775
41,775
164
0605813M
JOINT LIGHT
TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
2,541
2,541
165
0204202N
DDG–1000
208,448
208,448
169
0304785N
TACTICAL
CRYPTOLOGIC SYSTEMS
111,434
111,434
170
0306250M
CYBER OPERATIONS
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
26,173
26,173
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
6,263,883
6,248,783
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
171
0604256N
THREAT SIMULATOR
DEVELOPMENT
22,075
22,075
172
0604258N
TARGET SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
10,224
10,224
173
0604759N
MAJOR T&E
INVESTMENT
85,195
85,195
175
0605152N
STUDIES AND
ANALYSIS SUPPORT—NAVY
3,089
3,089
176
0605154N
CENTER FOR NAVAL
ANALYSES
43,517
43,517
179
0605804N
TECHNICAL
INFORMATION SERVICES
932
932
180
0605853N
MANAGEMENT,
TECHNICAL & INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT
94,297
94,297
181
0605856N
STRATEGIC TECHNICAL
SUPPORT
3,813
3,813
183
0605863N
RDT&E SHIP AND
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
104,822
104,822
184
0605864N
TEST AND EVALUATION
SUPPORT
446,960
446,960
185
0605865N
OPERATIONAL TEST
AND EVALUATION CAPABILITY
27,241
27,241
186
0605866N
NAVY SPACE AND
ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) SUPPORT
15,787
15,787
187
0605867N
SEW
SURVEILLANCE/RECONNAISSANCE SUPPORT
8,559
8,559
188
0605873M
MARINE CORPS
PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT
42,749
42,749
189
0605898N
MANAGEMENT
HQ—R&D
41,094
41,094
190
0606355N
WARFARE INNOVATION
MANAGEMENT
37,022
37,022
193
0305327N
INSIDER
THREAT
2,310
2,310
194
0902498N
MANAGEMENT
HEADQUARTERS (DEPARTMENTAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES)
1,536
1,536
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
991,222
991,222
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
199
0604227N
HARPOON
MODIFICATIONS
697
697
200
0604840M
F–35 C2D2
379,549
379,549
201
0604840N
F–35 C2D2
413,875
413,875
202
0607658N
COOPERATIVE
ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY (CEC)
143,667
143,667
204
0101221N
STRATEGIC SUB &
WEAPONS SYSTEM SUPPORT
173,056
173,056
205
0101224N
SSBN SECURITY
TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
45,970
45,970
206
0101226N
SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC
WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
69,190
61,190
CRAW EDM (TI–2) early to need
[–8,000]
207
0101402N
NAVY STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS
42,277
42,277
208
0204136N
F/A–18
SQUADRONS
171,030
171,030
210
0204228N
SURFACE
SUPPORT
33,482
33,482
211
0204229N
TOMAHAWK AND
TOMAHAWK MISSION PLANNING CENTER (TMPC)
200,308
200,308
212
0204311N
INTEGRATED
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
102,975
152,975
Accelerate sensor and signal processing
development
[25,000]
Program increase for spiral 1 TRAPS
units
[25,000]
213
0204313N
SHIP-TOWED ARRAY
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
10,873
10,873
214
0204413N
AMPHIBIOUS TACTICAL
SUPPORT UNITS (DISPLACEMENT CRAFT)
1,713
6,713
Program increase for LCAC composite component
manufacturing
[5,000]
215
0204460M
GROUND/AIR TASK
ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR)
22,205
105,805
Program increase for G/ATOR and SM–6
stand-alone engagement analysis
[10,000]
Program increase for USMC G/ATOR and SM–6
demonstration
[73,600]
216
0204571N
CONSOLIDATED
TRAINING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
83,956
83,956
218
0204575N
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
(EW) READINESS SUPPORT
56,791
56,791
219
0205601N
HARM
IMPROVEMENT
146,166
146,166
221
0205620N
SURFACE ASW COMBAT
SYSTEM INTEGRATION
29,348
29,348
222
0205632N
MK–48 ADCAP
110,349
110,349
223
0205633N
AVIATION
IMPROVEMENTS
133,953
133,953
224
0205675N
OPERATIONAL NUCLEAR
POWER SYSTEMS
110,313
110,313
225
0206313M
MARINE CORPS
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
207,662
207,662
226
0206335M
COMMON AVIATION
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (CAC2S)
4,406
4,406
227
0206623M
MARINE CORPS GROUND
COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS
61,381
61,381
228
0206624M
MARINE CORPS COMBAT
SERVICES SUPPORT
10,421
10,421
229
0206625M
USMC
INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP)
29,977
29,977
230
0206629M
AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT
VEHICLE
6,469
6,469
231
0207161N
TACTICAL AIM
MISSILES
5,859
5,859
232
0207163N
ADVANCED MEDIUM
RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM)
44,323
44,323
236
0303109N
SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE)
41,978
41,978
237
0303138N
CONSOLIDATED AFLOAT
NETWORK ENTERPRISE SERVICES (CANES)
29,684
29,684
238
0303140N
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
39,094
39,094
239
0305192N
MILITARY
INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM (MIP) ACTIVITIES
6,154
6,154
240
0305204N
TACTICAL UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLES
7,108
7,108
241
0305205N
UAS INTEGRATION AND
INTEROPERABILITY
62,098
62,098
242
0305208M
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
21,500
21,500
244
0305220N
MQ–4C
TRITON
11,120
11,120
245
0305231N
MQ–8 UAV
28,968
28,968
246
0305232M
RQ–11 UAV
537
537
247
0305234N
SMALL (LEVEL 0)
TACTICAL UAS (STUASL0)
8,773
8,773
248
0305239M
RQ–21A
10,853
10,853
249
0305241N
MULTI-INTELLIGENCE
SENSOR DEVELOPMENT
60,413
60,413
250
0305242M
UNMANNED AERIAL
SYSTEMS (UAS) PAYLOADS (MIP)
5,000
5,000
251
0305251N
CYBERSPACE
OPERATIONS FORCES AND FORCE SUPPORT
34,967
44,967
Cyber tool development
[10,000]
252
0305421N
RQ–4
MODERNIZATION
178,799
178,799
253
0307577N
INTELLIGENCE
MISSION DATA (IMD)
2,120
2,120
254
0308601N
MODELING AND
SIMULATION SUPPORT
8,683
8,683
255
0702207N
DEPOT MAINTENANCE
(NON-IF)
45,168
45,168
256
0708730N
MARITIME TECHNOLOGY
(MARITECH)
6,697
6,697
257
1203109N
SATELLITE
COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE)
70,056
70,056
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
1,795,032
1,795,032
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
5,327,043
5,467,643
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
PILOT PROGRAMS
258
0608013N
RISK MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
14,300
14,300
259
0608231N
MARITIME TACTICAL
COMMAND AND CONTROL (MTC2)—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
10,868
10,868
SUBTOTAL
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT
PROGRAMS
25,168
25,168
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY
21,427,048
21,036,806
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, AF
BASIC RESEARCH
1
0601102F
DEFENSE RESEARCH
SCIENCES
315,348
325,348
Increase in basic research
[10,000]
2
0601103F
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
INITIATIVES
161,861
161,861
3
0601108F
HIGH ENERGY LASER
RESEARCH INITIATIVES
15,085
15,085
SUBTOTAL
BASIC RESEARCH
492,294
502,294
APPLIED RESEARCH
4
0602020F
FUTURE AF
CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH
100,000
100,000
5
0602102F
MATERIALS
140,781
160,281
High-energy synchotron x-ray program
[5,000]
Materials maturation for high mach
systems
[5,000]
Metals Affordability Initiative
[5,000]
Qualification of additive manufacturing
processes
[2,000]
Techniques to repair fasteners
[2,500]
6
0602201F
AEROSPACE VEHICLE
TECHNOLOGIES
349,225
359,225
Hypersonic materials
[10,000]
7
0602202F
HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS
APPLIED RESEARCH
115,222
115,222
9
0602204F
AEROSPACE
SENSORS
211,301
211,301
11
0602298F
SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT— MAJOR HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES
8,926
8,926
12
0602602F
CONVENTIONAL
MUNITIONS
132,425
132,425
13
0602605F
DIRECTED ENERGY
TECHNOLOGY
128,113
128,113
14
0602788F
DOMINANT
INFORMATION SCIENCES AND METHODS
178,668
178,668
15
0602890F
HIGH ENERGY LASER
RESEARCH
45,088
45,088
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
1,409,749
1,439,249
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
17
0603030F
AF FOUNDATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT/DEMOS
103,280
103,280
18
0603032F
FUTURE AF
INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY DEMOS
157,619
107,619
Golden Horde too mature for science and
technology prototype
[–50,000]
19
0603033F
NEXT GEN PLATFORM
DEV/DEMO
199,556
208,556
B–52 pylon fairings
[3,000]
C–130 finlets
[3,000]
KC–135 aft body drag
[3,000]
20
0603034F
PERSISTENT
KNOWLEDGE, AWARENESS, & C2 TECH
102,276
102,276
21
0603035F
NEXT GEN EFFECTS
DEV/DEMOS
215,817
215,817
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
778,548
737,548
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
38
0603260F
INTELLIGENCE
ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
4,320
4,320
39
0603742F
COMBAT
IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY
26,396
26,396
40
0603790F
NATO RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
3,647
3,647
41
0603851F
INTERCONTINENTAL
BALLISTIC MISSILE—DEM/VAL
32,959
32,959
43
0604002F
AIR FORCE WEATHER
SERVICES RESEARCH
869
869
44
0604003F
ADVANCED BATTLE
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ABMS)
302,323
302,323
45
0604004F
ADVANCED ENGINE
DEVELOPMENT
636,495
686,495
AETP program acceleration
[50,000]
46
0604015F
LONG RANGE
STRIKE—BOMBER
2,848,410
2,848,410
47
0604032F
DIRECTED ENERGY
PROTOTYPING
20,964
25,964
Directed energy counter-Unmanned Aerial
Systems (CUAS)
[5,000]
48
0604033F
HYPERSONICS
PROTOTYPING
381,862
446,862
HAWC program increase
[65,000]
50
0604257F
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
AND SENSORS
24,747
24,747
51
0604288F
NATIONAL AIRBORNE
OPS CENTER (NAOC) RECAP
76,417
76,417
52
0604317F
TECHNOLOGY
TRANSFER
3,011
3,011
53
0604327F
HARD AND DEEPLY
BURIED TARGET DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROGRAM
52,921
52,921
54
0604414F
CYBER RESILIENCY OF
WEAPON SYSTEMS-ACS
69,783
69,783
55
0604776F
DEPLOYMENT &
DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&D
25,835
25,835
56
0604858F
TECH TRANSITION
PROGRAM
219,252
455,252
Agile software development and
operations
[4,500]
Initial polar MILSATCOM capability
[46,000]
KC–135 vertical wipers
[2,000]
KC–135 winglets
[10,000]
LCAAT program acceleration
[128,000]
Long-endurance UAS
[33,500]
Rapid repair of high performance
materials
[6,000]
Small satellite acceleration
[6,000]
57
0605230F
GROUND BASED
STRATEGIC DETERRENT
1,524,759
1,524,759
59
0207110F
NEXT GENERATION AIR
DOMINANCE
1,044,089
1,044,089
60
0207455F
THREE DIMENSIONAL
LONG-RANGE RADAR (3DELRR)
19,356
19,356
61
0207522F
AIRBASE AIR DEFENSE
SYSTEMS (ABADS)
8,737
8,737
62
0208099F
UNIFIED PLATFORM
(UP)
5,990
5,990
63
0305236F
COMMON DATA LINK
EXECUTIVE AGENT (CDL EA)
39,293
39,293
65
0305601F
MISSION PARTNER
ENVIRONMENTS
11,430
11,430
66
0306250F
CYBER OPERATIONS
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
259,823
259,823
67
0306415F
ENABLED CYBER
ACTIVITIES
10,560
10,560
68
0401310F
C–32 EXECUTIVE
TRANSPORT RECAPITALIZATION
9,908
9,908
69
0901410F
CONTRACTING
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM
8,662
8,662
74
1206427F
SPACE SYSTEMS
PROTOTYPE TRANSITIONS (SSPT)
8,787
8,787
77
1206730F
SPACE SECURITY AND
DEFENSE PROGRAM
56,311
56,311
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
7,737,916
8,093,916
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
82
0604200F
FUTURE ADVANCED
WEAPON ANALYSIS & PROGRAMS
25,161
25,161
83
0604201F
PNT RESILIENCY,
MODS, AND IMPROVEMENTS
38,564
38,564
84
0604222F
NUCLEAR WEAPONS
SUPPORT
35,033
35,033
85
0604270F
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT
2,098
2,098
86
0604281F
TACTICAL DATA
NETWORKS ENTERPRISE
131,909
131,909
87
0604287F
PHYSICAL SECURITY
EQUIPMENT
6,752
6,752
88
0604329F
SMALL DIAMETER BOMB
(SDB)—EMD
17,280
17,280
89
0604429F
AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC
ATTACK
0
30,000
STiTCHES integration
[30,000]
90
0604602F
ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE
DEVELOPMENT
23,076
23,076
91
0604604F
SUBMUNITIONS
3,091
3,091
92
0604617F
AGILE COMBAT
SUPPORT
20,609
20,609
93
0604618F
JOINT DIRECT ATTACK
MUNITION
7,926
7,926
94
0604706F
LIFE SUPPORT
SYSTEMS
23,660
23,660
95
0604735F
COMBAT TRAINING
RANGES
8,898
8,898
96
0604800F
F–35—EMD
5,423
5,423
97
0604932F
LONG RANGE STANDOFF
WEAPON
474,430
474,430
98
0604933F
ICBM FUZE
MODERNIZATION
167,099
167,099
100
0605056F
OPEN ARCHITECTURE
MANAGEMENT
30,547
30,547
102
0605223F
ADVANCED PILOT
TRAINING
248,669
254,669
SLATE/VR training
[6,000]
103
0605229F
COMBAT RESCUE
HELICOPTER
63,169
63,169
105
0101125F
NUCLEAR WEAPONS
MODERNIZATION
9,683
9,683
106
0207171F
F–15 EPAWSS
170,679
170,679
107
0207328F
STAND IN ATTACK
WEAPON
160,438
160,438
108
0207701F
FULL COMBAT MISSION
TRAINING
9,422
9,422
110
0305176F
COMBAT SURVIVOR
EVADER LOCATOR
973
973
111
0401221F
KC–46A TANKER
SQUADRONS
106,262
106,262
113
0401319F
VC–25B
800,889
800,889
114
0701212F
AUTOMATED TEST
SYSTEMS
10,673
10,673
115
0804772F
TRAINING
DEVELOPMENTS
4,479
4,479
116
0901299F
AF A1
SYSTEMS
8,467
8,467
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
2,615,359
2,651,359
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
131
0604256F
THREAT SIMULATOR
DEVELOPMENT
57,725
57,725
132
0604759F
MAJOR T&E
INVESTMENT
208,680
223,680
Gulf Range telemetric modernization
[15,000]
133
0605101F
RAND PROJECT AIR
FORCE
35,803
35,803
135
0605712F
INITIAL OPERATIONAL
TEST & EVALUATION
13,557
13,557
136
0605807F
TEST AND EVALUATION
SUPPORT
764,606
764,606
142
0605831F
ACQ WORKFORCE-
CAPABILITY INTEGRATION
1,362,038
1,362,038
143
0605832F
ACQ WORKFORCE-
ADVANCED PRGM TECHNOLOGY
40,768
40,768
144
0605833F
ACQ WORKFORCE-
NUCLEAR SYSTEMS
179,646
179,646
145
0605898F
MANAGEMENT
HQ—R&D
5,734
5,734
146
0605976F
FACILITIES
RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION—TEST AND EVALUATION
SUPPORT
70,985
70,985
147
0605978F
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT—TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT
29,880
29,880
148
0606017F
REQUIREMENTS
ANALYSIS AND MATURATION
63,381
63,381
149
0606398F
MANAGEMENT
HQ—T&E
5,785
5,785
150
0303255F
COMMAND, CONTROL,
COMMUNICATION, AND COMPUTERS (C4)—STRATCOM
24,564
24,564
151
0308602F
ENTEPRISE
INFORMATION SERVICES (EIS)
9,883
2,383
Acq strat incompatible with AF digital mod
strategy
[–7,500]
152
0702806F
ACQUISITION AND
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
13,384
13,384
153
0804731F
GENERAL SKILL
TRAINING
1,262
1,262
155
1001004F
INTERNATIONAL
ACTIVITIES
3,599
3,599
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
2,891,280
2,898,780
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
163
0604233F
SPECIALIZED
UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT TRAINING
8,777
8,777
164
0604776F
DEPLOYMENT &
DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&D
499
499
165
0604840F
F–35 C2D2
785,336
785,336
166
0605018F
AF INTEGRATED
PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM (AF-IPPS)
27,035
7,035
Poor agile development strategy
[–20,000]
167
0605024F
ANTI-TAMPER
TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVE AGENCY
50,508
50,508
168
0605117F
FOREIGN MATERIEL
ACQUISITION AND EXPLOITATION
71,229
71,229
169
0605278F
HC/MC–130 RECAP
RDT&E
24,705
24,705
170
0606018F
NC3
INTEGRATION
26,356
26,356
172
0101113F
B–52
SQUADRONS
520,023
520,023
173
0101122F
AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE
MISSILE (ALCM)
1,433
1,433
174
0101126F
B–1B
SQUADRONS
15,766
26,566
USAF-requested transfer from APAF Lines 22,
24
[10,800]
175
0101127F
B–2
SQUADRONS
187,399
187,399
176
0101213F
MINUTEMAN
SQUADRONS
116,569
116,569
177
0101316F
WORLDWIDE JOINT
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
27,235
27,235
178
0101324F
INTEGRATED
STRATEGIC PLANNING & ANALYSIS NETWORK
24,227
24,227
179
0101328F
ICBM REENTRY
VEHICLES
112,753
112,753
181
0102110F
UH–1N REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM
44,464
44,464
182
0102326F
REGION/SECTOR
OPERATION CONTROL CENTER MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
5,929
5,929
183
0102412F
NORTH WARNING
SYSTEM (NWS)
100
100
184
0205219F
MQ–9 UAV
162,080
162,080
186
0207131F
A–10
SQUADRONS
24,535
24,535
187
0207133F
F–16
SQUADRONS
223,437
223,437
188
0207134F
F–15E
SQUADRONS
298,908
298,908
189
0207136F
MANNED DESTRUCTIVE
SUPPRESSION
14,960
14,960
190
0207138F
F–22A
SQUADRONS
665,038
665,038
191
0207142F
F–35
SQUADRONS
132,229
132,229
192
0207146F
F–15EX
159,761
159,761
193
0207161F
TACTICAL AIM
MISSILES
19,417
19,417
194
0207163F
ADVANCED MEDIUM
RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM)
51,799
51,799
195
0207227F
COMBAT
RESCUE—PARARESCUE
669
669
196
0207247F
AF TENCAP
21,644
21,644
197
0207249F
PRECISION ATTACK
SYSTEMS PROCUREMENT
9,261
9,261
198
0207253F
COMPASS
CALL
15,854
15,854
199
0207268F
AIRCRAFT ENGINE
COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
95,896
95,896
200
0207325F
JOINT
AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE (JASSM)
70,792
70,792
201
0207410F
AIR & SPACE
OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC)
51,187
51,187
202
0207412F
CONTROL AND
REPORTING CENTER (CRC)
16,041
16,041
203
0207417F
AIRBORNE WARNING
AND CONTROL SYSTEM (AWACS)
138,303
138,303
204
0207418F
AFSPECWAR—TACP
4,223
4,223
206
0207431F
COMBAT AIR
INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM ACTIVITIES
16,564
16,564
207
0207438F
THEATER BATTLE
MANAGEMENT (TBM) C4I
7,858
7,858
208
0207444F
TACTICAL AIR
CONTROL PARTY-MOD
12,906
12,906
210
0207452F
DCAPES
14,816
14,816
211
0207521F
AIR FORCE
CALIBRATION PROGRAMS
1,970
1,970
212
0207573F
NATIONAL TECHNICAL
NUCLEAR FORENSICS
396
396
213
0207590F
SEEK EAGLE
29,680
29,680
214
0207601F
USAF MODELING AND
SIMULATION
17,666
17,666
215
0207605F
WARGAMING AND
SIMULATION CENTERS
6,353
6,353
216
0207610F
BATTLEFIELD ABN
COMM NODE (BACN)
6,827
6,827
217
0207697F
DISTRIBUTED
TRAINING AND EXERCISES
3,390
3,390
218
0208006F
MISSION PLANNING
SYSTEMS
91,768
91,768
219
0208007F
TACTICAL
DECEPTION
2,370
2,370
220
0208064F
OPERATIONAL
HQ—CYBER
5,527
5,527
221
0208087F
DISTRIBUTED CYBER
WARFARE OPERATIONS
68,279
68,279
222
0208088F
AF DEFENSIVE
CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
15,165
15,165
223
0208097F
JOINT CYBER COMMAND
AND CONTROL (JCC2)
38,480
38,480
224
0208099F
UNIFIED PLATFORM
(UP)
84,645
84,645
230
0301025F
GEOBASE
2,767
2,767
231
0301112F
NUCLEAR PLANNING
AND EXECUTION SYSTEM (NPES)
32,759
32,759
238
0301401F
AIR FORCE SPACE AND
CYBER NON-TRADITIONAL ISR FOR BATTLESPACE AWARENESS
2,904
2,904
239
0302015F
E–4B NATIONAL
AIRBORNE OPERATIONS CENTER (NAOC)
3,468
3,468
240
0303131F
MINIMUM ESSENTIAL
EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN)
61,887
61,887
242
0303140F
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
10,351
10,351
243
0303142F
GLOBAL FORCE
MANAGEMENT—DATA INITIATIVE
1,346
1,346
246
0304260F
AIRBORNE SIGINT
ENTERPRISE
128,110
128,110
247
0304310F
COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS
4,042
4,042
251
0305020F
CCMD INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
1,649
1,649
252
0305022F
ISR MODERNIZATION
& AUTOMATION DVMT (IMAD)
19,265
19,265
253
0305099F
GLOBAL AIR TRAFFIC
MANAGEMENT (GATM)
4,645
4,645
254
0305103F
CYBER SECURITY
INITIATIVE
384
384
255
0305111F
WEATHER
SERVICE
23,640
23,640
256
0305114F
AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROL, APPROACH, AND LANDING SYSTEM (ATCALS)
6,553
6,553
257
0305116F
AERIAL
TARGETS
449
449
260
0305128F
SECURITY AND
INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES
432
432
262
0305146F
DEFENSE JOINT
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
4,890
4,890
264
0305179F
INTEGRATED
BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)
8,864
8,864
265
0305202F
DRAGON U–2
18,660
18,660
267
0305206F
AIRBORNE
RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
121,512
121,512
268
0305207F
MANNED
RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
14,711
14,711
269
0305208F
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
14,152
14,152
270
0305220F
RQ–4 UAV
134,589
134,589
271
0305221F
NETWORK-CENTRIC
COLLABORATIVE TARGETING
15,049
15,049
272
0305238F
NATO AGS
36,731
36,731
273
0305240F
SUPPORT TO DCGS
ENTERPRISE
33,547
33,547
274
0305600F
INTERNATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY AND ARCHITECTURES
13,635
17,315
PDI: Mission Partner Environment BICES-X
Project 675898
[3,680]
275
0305881F
RAPID CYBER
ACQUISITION
4,262
4,262
276
0305984F
PERSONNEL RECOVERY
COMMAND & CTRL (PRC2)
2,207
2,207
277
0307577F
INTELLIGENCE
MISSION DATA (IMD)
6,277
6,277
278
0401115F
C–130 AIRLIFT
SQUADRON
41,973
41,973
279
0401119F
C–5 AIRLIFT
SQUADRONS (IF)
32,560
32,560
280
0401130F
C–17 AIRCRAFT
(IF)
9,991
12,991
C–17 microvanes
[3,000]
281
0401132F
C–130J
PROGRAM
10,674
10,674
282
0401134F
LARGE AIRCRAFT IR
COUNTERMEASURES (LAIRCM)
5,507
5,507
283
0401218F
KC–135S
4,591
4,591
286
0401318F
CV–22
18,419
18,419
288
0408011F
SPECIAL TACTICS /
COMBAT CONTROL
7,673
7,673
290
0708055F
MAINTENANCE, REPAIR
& OVERHAUL SYSTEM
24,513
24,513
291
0708610F
LOGISTICS
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (LOGIT)
35,225
15,225
Poor agile development strategy
[–20,000]
292
0708611F
SUPPORT SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
11,838
11,838
293
0804743F
OTHER FLIGHT
TRAINING
1,332
1,332
295
0901202F
JOINT PERSONNEL
RECOVERY AGENCY
2,092
2,092
296
0901218F
CIVILIAN
COMPENSATION PROGRAM
3,869
3,869
297
0901220F
PERSONNEL
ADMINISTRATION
1,584
1,584
298
0901226F
AIR FORCE STUDIES
AND ANALYSIS AGENCY
1,197
1,197
299
0901538F
FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
7,006
7,006
300
0901554F
DEFENSE ENTERPRISE
ACNTNG AND MGT SYS (DEAMS)
45,638
45,638
301
1201017F
GLOBAL SENSOR
INTEGRATED ON NETWORK (GSIN)
1,889
1,889
302
1201921F
SERVICE SUPPORT TO
STRATCOM—SPACE ACTIVITIES
993
993
303
1202140F
SERVICE SUPPORT TO
SPACECOM ACTIVITIES
8,999
8,999
314
1203400F
SPACE SUPERIORITY
INTELLIGENCE
16,810
16,810
316
1203620F
NATIONAL SPACE
DEFENSE CENTER
2,687
2,687
318
1203906F
NCMC—TW/AA
SYSTEM
6,990
6,990
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
15,777,856
15,839,856
Air-to-air weapons development
increase
[62,000]
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
21,466,680
21,506,160
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF
37,391,826
37,829,306
RDTE, SPACE FORCE
APPLIED RESEARCH
1
1206601SF
SPACE
TECHNOLOGY
130,874
133,874
Small satellite mission operations
facility
[3,000]
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
130,874
133,874
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
2
1203164SF
NAVSTAR GLOBAL
POSITIONING SYSTEM (USER EQUIPMENT) (SPACE)
390,704
370,704
MGUE program slip
[–20,000]
3
1203710SF
EO/IR WEATHER
SYSTEMS
131,000
131,000
4
1206422SF
WEATHER SYSTEM
FOLLOW-ON
83,384
83,384
5
1206425SF
SPACE SITUATION
AWARENESS SYSTEMS
33,359
33,359
6
1206427SF
SPACE SYSTEMS
PROTOTYPE TRANSITIONS (SSPT)
142,808
142,808
7
1206438SF
SPACE CONTROL
TECHNOLOGY
35,575
35,575
8
1206760SF
PROTECTED TACTICAL
ENTERPRISE SERVICE (PTES)
114,390
114,390
9
1206761SF
PROTECTED TACTICAL
SERVICE (PTS)
205,178
205,178
10
1206855SF
EVOLVED STRATEGIC
SATCOM (ESS)
71,395
71,395
11
1206857SF
SPACE RAPID
CAPABILITIES OFFICE
103,518
103,518
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
1,311,311
1,291,311
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
12
1203269SF
GPS III FOLLOW-ON
(GPS IIIF)
263,496
263,496
13
1203940SF
SPACE SITUATION
AWARENESS OPERATIONS
41,897
41,897
14
1206421SF
COUNTERSPACE
SYSTEMS
54,689
54,689
15
1206422SFZ
WEATHER SYSTEM
FOLLOW-ON
2,526
2,526
16
1206425SFZ
SPACE SITUATION
AWARENESS SYSTEMS
173,074
173,074
17
1206431SF
ADVANCED EHF
MILSATCOM (SPACE)
138,257
138,257
18
1206432SF
POLAR MILSATCOM
(SPACE)
190,235
190,235
19
1206442SF
NEXT GENERATION
OPIR
2,318,864
2,318,864
20
1206853SF
NATIONAL SECURITY
SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE)—EMD
560,978
590,978
NSSL Phase 3 integration activities
program
[30,000]
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
3,744,016
3,774,016
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
21
1206116SF
SPACE TEST AND
TRAINING RANGE DEVELOPMENT
20,281
20,281
22
1206392SF
ACQ WORKFORCE—SPACE
& MISSILE SYSTEMS
183,930
183,930
23
1206398SF
SPACE & MISSILE
SYSTEMS CENTER—MHA
9,765
9,765
24
1206860SF
ROCKET SYSTEMS
LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE)
17,993
17,993
25
1206864SF
SPACE TEST PROGRAM
(STP)
26,541
26,541
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
258,510
258,510
OPERATIONAL SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT
26
1201017SF
GLOBAL SENSOR
INTEGRATED ON NETWORK (GSIN)
3,708
3,708
27
1203001SF
FAMILY OF ADVANCED
BLOS TERMINALS (FAB-T)
247,229
247,229
28
1203110SF
SATELLITE CONTROL
NETWORK (SPACE)
75,480
75,480
29
1203165SF
NAVSTAR GLOBAL
POSITIONING SYSTEM (SPACE AND CONTROL SEGMENTS)
1,984
1,984
30
1203173SF
SPACE AND MISSILE
TEST AND EVALUATION CENTER
4,397
4,397
31
1203174SF
SPACE INNOVATION,
INTEGRATION AND RAPID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
44,746
44,746
32
1203182SF
SPACELIFT RANGE
SYSTEM (SPACE)
11,020
11,020
33
1203265SF
GPS III SPACE
SEGMENT
10,777
10,777
34
1203873SF
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE RADARS
28,179
46,679
Cobra Dane service life extension
[18,500]
35
1203913SF
NUDET DETECTION
SYSTEM (SPACE)
29,157
29,157
36
1203940SFZ
SPACE SITUATION
AWARENESS OPERATIONS
44,809
51,809
Commercial SSA
[7,000]
37
1206423SF
GLOBAL POSITIONING
SYSTEM III—OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT
481,999
416,999
Funds available prioritized to other space
missions
[–65,000]
41
1206770SF
ENTERPRISE GROUND
SERVICES
116,791
116,791
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
3,632,866
3,632,866
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
4,733,142
4,693,642
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
PILOT PROGRAMS
42
1203614SF
JSPOC MISSION
SYSTEM
149,742
149,742
SUBTOTAL
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT
PROGRAMS
149,742
149,742
TOTAL RDTE,
SPACE FORCE
10,327,595
10,301,095
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, DW
BASIC RESEARCH
1
0601000BR
DTRA BASIC
RESEARCH
14,617
14,617
2
0601101E
DEFENSE RESEARCH
SCIENCES
479,958
479,958
3
0601110D8Z
BASIC RESEARCH
INITIATIVES
35,565
72,565
DEPSCoR
[20,000]
Minerva Research initiative restore DWR
cut
[17,000]
4
0601117E
BASIC OPERATIONAL
MEDICAL RESEARCH SCIENCE
53,730
58,730
Traumatic brain injury medical
research
[5,000]
5
0601120D8Z
NATIONAL DEFENSE
EDUCATION PROGRAM
100,241
100,241
6
0601228D8Z
HISTORICALLY BLACK
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES/MINORITY INSTITUTIONS
30,975
37,975
Aerospace education, research, and innovation
activities
[2,000]
HBCU/Minority Institutions
[5,000]
7
0601384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
45,300
45,300
SUBTOTAL
BASIC RESEARCH
760,386
809,386
APPLIED RESEARCH
8
0602000D8Z
JOINT MUNITIONS
TECHNOLOGY
19,409
19,409
9
0602115E
BIOMEDICAL
TECHNOLOGY
107,568
107,568
11
0602230D8Z
DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY
INNOVATION
35,000
35,000
12
0602234D8Z
LINCOLN LABORATORY
RESEARCH PROGRAM
41,080
41,080
13
0602251D8Z
APPLIED RESEARCH
FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF S&T PRIORITIES
60,722
60,722
14
0602303E
INFORMATION &
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
435,920
435,920
15
0602383E
BIOLOGICAL WARFARE
DEFENSE
26,950
26,950
16
0602384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
201,807
201,807
17
0602668D8Z
CYBER SECURITY
RESEARCH
15,255
15,255
18
0602702E
TACTICAL
TECHNOLOGY
233,271
233,271
19
0602715E
MATERIALS AND
BIOLOGICAL TECHNOLOGY
250,107
290,107
Increase in emerging biotech research
[40,000]
20
0602716E
ELECTRONICS
TECHNOLOGY
322,693
322,693
21
0602718BR
COUNTER WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION APPLIED RESEARCH
174,571
174,571
22
0602751D8Z
SOFTWARE
ENGINEERING INSTITUTE (SEI) APPLIED RESEARCH
9,573
9,573
23
1160401BB
SOF TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
42,464
42,464
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
1,976,390
2,016,390
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
24
0603000D8Z
JOINT MUNITIONS
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
22,920
22,920
25
0603121D8Z
SO/LIC ADVANCED
DEVELOPMENT
4,914
4,914
26
0603122D8Z
COMBATING TERRORISM
TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
51,089
51,089
27
0603133D8Z
FOREIGN COMPARATIVE
TESTING
25,183
25,183
29
0603160BR
COUNTER WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
366,659
366,659
30
0603176C
ADVANCED CONCEPTS
AND PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
14,910
14,910
32
0603180C
ADVANCED
RESEARCH
18,687
18,687
33
0603225D8Z
JOINT DOD-DOE
MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
18,873
18,873
34
0603286E
ADVANCED AEROSPACE
SYSTEMS
230,978
210,978
OpFires lack of transition pathway
[–20,000]
35
0603287E
SPACE PROGRAMS AND
TECHNOLOGY
158,439
158,439
36
0603288D8Z
ANALYTIC
ASSESSMENTS
23,775
23,775
37
0603289D8Z
ADVANCED INNOVATIVE
ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTS
36,524
36,524
38
0603291D8Z
ADVANCED INNOVATIVE
ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTS—MHA
14,703
14,703
39
0603294C
COMMON KILL VEHICLE
TECHNOLOGY
11,058
11,058
40
0603338D8Z
DEFENSE
MODERNIZATION AND PROTOTYPING
133,375
126,375
Lack of hypersonic prototype coordination
efforts
[–20,000]
Stratospheric balloon research
[13,000]
42
0603342D8Z
DEFENSE INNOVATION
UNIT (DIU)
26,141
26,141
43
0603375D8Z
TECHNOLOGY
INNOVATION
27,709
27,709
44
0603384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
188,001
188,001
45
0603527D8Z
RETRACT
LARCH
130,283
130,283
46
0603618D8Z
JOINT ELECTRONIC
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
15,164
15,164
47
0603648D8Z
JOINT CAPABILITY
TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS
85,452
85,452
48
0603662D8Z
NETWORKED
COMMUNICATIONS CAPABILITIES
5,882
5,882
49
0603680D8Z
DEFENSE-WIDE
MANUFACTURING SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
93,817
98,817
Rapid prototyping using digital
manufacturing
[5,000]
50
0603680S
MANUFACTURING
TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
40,025
55,025
Defense supply chain technologies
[5,000]
Steel performance initiative
[10,000]
52
0603712S
GENERIC LOGISTICS
R&D TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS
10,235
10,235
53
0603716D8Z
STRATEGIC
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
53,862
53,862
54
0603720S
MICROELECTRONICS
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT
124,049
124,049
55
0603727D8Z
JOINT WARFIGHTING
PROGRAM
3,871
3,871
56
0603739E
ADVANCED
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES
95,864
95,864
57
0603760E
COMMAND, CONTROL
AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
221,724
221,724
58
0603766E
NETWORK-CENTRIC
WARFARE TECHNOLOGY
661,158
651,158
Lack of coordination
[–10,000]
59
0603767E
SENSOR
TECHNOLOGY
200,220
200,220
60
0603769D8Z
DISTRIBUTED
LEARNING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
6,765
6,765
61
0603781D8Z
SOFTWARE
ENGINEERING INSTITUTE
12,598
12,598
64
0603924D8Z
HIGH ENERGY LASER
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
105,410
105,410
65
0603941D8Z
TEST &
EVALUATION SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
187,065
187,065
67
0604055D8Z
OPERATIONAL ENERGY
CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT
0
65,000
Restoration of funds
[65,000]
70
1160402BB
SOF ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
89,072
89,072
71
1206310SDA
SPACE SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
72,422
72,422
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
3,588,876
3,636,876
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
72
0603161D8Z
NUCLEAR AND
CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E
ADC&P
32,636
32,636
73
0603600D8Z
WALKOFF
106,529
106,529
75
0603851D8Z
ENVIRONMENTAL
SECURITY TECHNICAL CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
61,345
76,345
Joint Storage Program
[15,000]
76
0603881C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT
412,627
412,627
77
0603882C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SEGMENT
1,004,305
1,004,305
78
0603884BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—DEM/VAL
76,167
76,167
79
0603884C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE SENSORS
281,957
281,957
80
0603890C
BMD ENABLING
PROGRAMS
599,380
599,380
81
0603891C
SPECIAL
PROGRAMS—MDA
420,216
420,216
82
0603892C
AEGIS BMD
814,936
814,936
83
0603896C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE COMMAND AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGEMENT AND
COMMUNICATI
593,353
593,353
84
0603898C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE JOINT WARFIGHTER SUPPORT
49,560
49,560
85
0603904C
MISSILE DEFENSE
INTEGRATION & OPERATIONS CENTER (MDIOC)
55,356
55,356
86
0603906C
REGARDING
TRENCH
11,863
11,863
87
0603907C
SEA BASED X-BAND
RADAR (SBX)
118,318
118,318
88
0603913C
ISRAELI COOPERATIVE
PROGRAMS
300,000
300,000
89
0603914C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE TEST
378,302
378,302
90
0603915C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE TARGETS
536,133
536,133
92
0603923D8Z
COALITION
WARFARE
10,129
10,129
93
0604011D8Z
NEXT GENERATION
INFORMATION COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G)
449,000
449,000
94
0604016D8Z
DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE CORROSION PROGRAM
3,325
3,325
95
0604115C
TECHNOLOGY
MATURATION INITIATIVES
67,389
67,389
98
0604181C
HYPERSONIC
DEFENSE
206,832
206,832
99
0604250D8Z
ADVANCED INNOVATIVE
TECHNOLOGIES
730,508
630,508
Program decrease
[–100,000]
100
0604294D8Z
TRUSTED &
ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS
489,076
489,076
101
0604331D8Z
RAPID PROTOTYPING
PROGRAM
102,023
82,023
Lack of hypersonic prototype coordination
efforts
[–20,000]
102
0604341D8Z
DEFENSE INNOVATION
UNIT (DIU) PROTOTYPING
13,255
13,255
103
0604400D8Z
DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE (DOD) UNMANNED SYSTEM COMMON DEVELOPMENT
2,787
2,787
105
0604672C
HOMELAND DEFENSE
RADAR—HAWAII (HDR-H)
0
162,000
Continue radar development
[162,000]
107
0604682D8Z
WARGAMING AND
SUPPORT FOR STRATEGIC ANALYSIS (SSA)
3,469
3,469
109
0604826J
JOINT C5 CAPABILITY
DEVELOPMENT, INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY
ASSESSMENTS
19,190
19,190
110
0604873C
LONG RANGE
DISCRIMINATION RADAR (LRDR)
137,256
137,256
111
0604874C
IMPROVED HOMELAND
DEFENSE INTERCEPTORS
664,138
354,138
Contract award delay
[–310,000]
112
0604876C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT TEST
7,768
7,768
113
0604878C
AEGIS BMD
TEST
170,880
170,880
114
0604879C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE SENSOR TEST
76,456
76,456
115
0604880C
LAND-BASED SM–3
(LBSM3)
56,628
133,428
PDI: Guam Defense System—systems
engineering
[76,800]
116
0604887C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE MIDCOURSE SEGMENT TEST
67,071
67,071
118
0300206R
ENTERPRISE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS
2,198
2,198
119
0303191D8Z
JOINT
ELECTROMAGNETIC TECHNOLOGY (JET) PROGRAM
997
997
120
0305103C
CYBER SECURITY
INITIATIVE
1,148
1,148
121
1206410SDA
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPING
215,994
325,994
Execution of HBTSS by MDA
[–20,000]
Space-based target custody layer
[130,000]
122
1206893C
SPACE TRACKING
& SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
34,144
34,144
123
1206895C
BALLISTIC MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEM SPACE PROGRAMS
32,068
152,068
Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space
Sensor (HBTSS)
[120,000]
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
9,416,712
9,470,512
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
124
0604161D8Z
NUCLEAR AND
CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E SDD
7,173
7,173
126
0604384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—EMD
319,976
322,976
Stryker NBCRV sensor suite upgrade
[3,000]
127
0604771D8Z
JOINT TACTICAL
INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (JTIDS)
54,985
54,985
128
0605000BR
COUNTER WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
15,650
15,650
129
0605013BL
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
1,441
1,441
130
0605021SE
HOMELAND PERSONNEL
SECURITY INITIATIVE
7,287
7,287
131
0605022D8Z
DEFENSE
EXPORTABILITY PROGRAM
12,928
12,928
132
0605027D8Z
OUSD(C) IT
DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES
10,259
10,259
133
0605070S
DOD ENTERPRISE
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
1,377
1,377
134
0605075D8Z
CMO POLICY AND
INTEGRATION
1,648
1,648
135
0605080S
DEFENSE AGENCY
INITIATIVES (DAI)—FINANCIAL SYSTEM
20,537
20,537
136
0605090S
DEFENSE RETIRED AND
ANNUITANT PAY SYSTEM (DRAS)
1,638
1,638
137
0605141BR
MISSION ASSURANCE
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (MARMS)
5,500
5,500
138
0605210D8Z
DEFENSE-WIDE
ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT CAPABILITIES
8,279
8,279
139
0605294D8Z
TRUSTED &
ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS
107,585
107,585
140
0605772D8Z
NUCLEAR COMMAND,
CONTROL, & COMMUNICATIONS
3,685
3,685
143
0305304D8Z
DOD ENTERPRISE
ENERGY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (EEIM)
3,275
3,275
144
0305310D8Z
CWMD SYSTEMS:
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
20,585
20,585
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
603,808
606,808
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
145
0603829J
JOINT CAPABILITY
EXPERIMENTATION
11,239
11,239
146
0604774D8Z
DEFENSE READINESS
REPORTING SYSTEM (DRRS)
9,793
9,793
147
0604875D8Z
JOINT SYSTEMS
ARCHITECTURE DEVELOPMENT
8,497
8,497
148
0604940D8Z
CENTRAL TEST AND
EVALUATION INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT (CTEIP)
422,451
452,451
Joint Counter-UAS Office assessment
infrastructure
[15,000]
Telemetry range extension wave glider
relay
[15,000]
149
0604942D8Z
ASSESSMENTS AND
EVALUATIONS
18,379
18,379
150
0605001E
MISSION
SUPPORT
74,334
74,334
151
0605100D8Z
JOINT MISSION
ENVIRONMENT TEST CAPABILITY (JMETC)
79,046
79,046
153
0605126J
JOINT INTEGRATED
AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ORGANIZATION (JIAMDO)
50,255
50,255
155
0605142D8Z
SYSTEMS
ENGINEERING
49,376
49,376
156
0605151D8Z
STUDIES AND
ANALYSIS SUPPORT—OSD
5,777
7,777
National Academies of Science study on
comparison of talent programs
[2,000]
157
0605161D8Z
NUCLEAR
MATTERS-PHYSICAL SECURITY
16,552
16,552
158
0605170D8Z
SUPPORT TO NETWORKS
AND INFORMATION INTEGRATION
9,582
9,582
159
0605200D8Z
GENERAL SUPPORT TO
USD (INTELLIGENCE)
1,940
1,940
160
0605384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
122,951
122,951
167
0605790D8Z
SMALL BUSINESS
INNOVATION RESEARCH (SBIR)/ SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
TRANSFER
3,582
3,582
168
0605797D8Z
MAINTAINING
TECHNOLOGY ADVANTAGE
29,566
29,566
169
0605798D8Z
DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY
ANALYSIS
29,059
29,059
170
0605801KA
DEFENSE TECHNICAL
INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC)
59,369
9,369
Insufficient progress on data sharing and
open repositories
[–50,000]
171
0605803SE
R&D IN SUPPORT
OF DOD ENLISTMENT, TESTING AND EVALUATION
29,420
29,420
172
0605804D8Z
DEVELOPMENT TEST
AND EVALUATION
27,198
27,198
173
0605898E
MANAGEMENT
HQ—R&D
13,434
13,434
174
0605998KA
MANAGEMENT
HQ—DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC)
2,837
2,837
175
0606100D8Z
BUDGET AND PROGRAM
ASSESSMENTS
13,173
13,173
176
0606225D8Z
ODNA TECHNOLOGY AND
RESOURCE ANALYSIS
3,200
3,200
177
0606589D8W
DEFENSE DIGITAL
SERVICE (DDS) DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
999
999
180
0203345D8Z
DEFENSE OPERATIONS
SECURITY INITIATIVE (DOSI)
3,099
3,099
181
0204571J
JOINT STAFF
ANALYTICAL SUPPORT
3,058
3,058
182
0208045K
C4I
INTEROPERABILITY
59,813
59,813
185
0303140SE
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
1,112
1,112
186
0303166J
SUPPORT TO
INFORMATION OPERATIONS (IO) CAPABILITIES
545
545
187
0303260D8Z
DEFENSE MILITARY
DECEPTION PROGRAM OFFICE (DMDPO)
1,036
1,036
188
0305172K
COMBINED ADVANCED
APPLICATIONS
30,824
30,824
190
0305208K
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
3,048
3,048
194
0804768J
COCOM EXERCISE
ENGAGEMENT AND TRAINING TRANSFORMATION (CE2T2)—NON-MHA
31,125
31,125
195
0808709SE
DEFENSE EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (DEOMI)
100
100
196
0901598C
MANAGEMENT
HQ—MDA
26,902
26,902
197
0903235K
JOINT SERVICE
PROVIDER (JSP)
3,138
3,138
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
41,583
41,583
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1,297,392
1,279,392
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
199
0604130V
ENTERPRISE SECURITY
SYSTEM (ESS)
14,378
14,378
200
0604532K
JOINT ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
132,058
132,058
201
0605127T
REGIONAL
INTERNATIONAL OUTREACH (RIO) AND PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE
INFORMATION MANA
1,986
1,986
202
0605147T
OVERSEAS
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE SHARED INFORMATION SYSTEM
(OHASIS)
316
316
203
0607210D8Z
INDUSTRIAL BASE
ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT
9,151
70,151
Advanced machine tool research
[20,000]
Cold spray manufacturing technologies
[5,000]
Domestic organic LED manufacturing
[5,000]
Implementation of radar supplier resiliency
plan
[5,000]
Manufacturing for reuse of NdFeB
magnets
[6,000]
Submarine industrial base workforce training
pipeline
[20,000]
204
0607310D8Z
CWMD SYSTEMS:
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
19,082
19,082
205
0607327T
GLOBAL THEATER
SECURITY COOPERATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
(G-TSCMIS)
3,992
3,992
206
0607384BP
CHEMICAL AND
BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE (OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
39,530
39,530
207
0208043J
PLANNING AND
DECISION AID SYSTEM (PDAS)
3,039
3,039
212
0302019K
DEFENSE INFO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION
16,324
16,324
213
0303126K
LONG-HAUL
COMMUNICATIONS—DCS
11,884
11,884
214
0303131K
MINIMUM ESSENTIAL
EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN)
5,560
5,560
215
0303136G
KEY MANAGEMENT
INFRASTRUCTURE (KMI)
73,356
73,356
216
0303140D8Z
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
46,577
66,577
Workforce transformation cyber initiative
pilot program
[20,000]
217
0303140G
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
356,713
356,713
218
0303140K
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY PROGRAM
8,922
18,922
Execution of orchestration pilot
[10,000]
219
0303150K
GLOBAL COMMAND AND
CONTROL SYSTEM
3,695
3,695
220
0303153K
DEFENSE SPECTRUM
ORGANIZATION
20,113
20,113
223
0303228K
JOINT REGIONAL
SECURITY STACKS (JRSS)
9,728
9,242
JRSS SIPR funding
[–486]
231
0305128V
SECURITY AND
INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES
5,700
5,700
235
0305186D8Z
POLICY R&D
PROGRAMS
7,144
7,144
236
0305199D8Z
NET
CENTRICITY
21,793
21,793
238
0305208BB
DISTRIBUTED COMMON
GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
6,066
6,066
245
0305387D8Z
HOMELAND DEFENSE
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM
2,190
2,190
252
0708012K
LOGISTICS SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES
1,654
1,654
253
0708012S
PACIFIC DISASTER
CENTERS
1,785
1,785
254
0708047S
DEFENSE PROPERTY
ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM
7,301
7,301
256
1105219BB
MQ–9 UAV
21,265
21,265
258
1160403BB
AVIATION
SYSTEMS
230,812
230,812
259
1160405BB
INTELLIGENCE
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
19,558
19,558
260
1160408BB
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS
136,041
136,041
261
1160431BB
WARRIOR
SYSTEMS
59,511
58,311
MMP-Light unexecutable, transfer to
man-pack
[–1,200]
262
1160432BB
SPECIAL
PROGRAMS
10,500
10,500
263
1160434BB
UNMANNED
ISR
19,154
19,154
264
1160480BB
SOF TACTICAL
VEHICLES
9,263
9,263
265
1160483BB
MARITIME
SYSTEMS
59,882
59,882
266
1160489BB
GLOBAL VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES
4,606
4,606
267
1160490BB
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE
11,612
11,612
268
1203610K
TELEPORT
PROGRAM
3,239
3,239
999
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
4,746,466
4,746,466
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
6,161,946
6,251,260
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
PILOT PROGRAMS
269
0608197V
NATIONAL BACKGROUND
INVESTIGATION SERVICES—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
121,676
121,676
270
0608648D8Z
ACQUISITION
VISIBILITY—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
16,848
16,848
271
0303150K
GLOBAL COMMAND AND
CONTROL SYSTEM
86,750
86,750
272
0308588D8Z
ALGORITHMIC WARFARE
CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAMS—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
250,107
250,107
SUBTOTAL
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT
PROGRAMS
475,381
475,381
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW
24,280,891
24,546,005
OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL,
DEFENSE
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1
0605118OTE
OPERATIONAL TEST
AND EVALUATION
100,021
100,021
2
0605131OTE
LIVE FIRE TEST AND
EVALUATION
70,933
70,933
3
0605814OTE
OPERATIONAL TEST
ACTIVITIES AND ANALYSES
39,136
66,136
Advanced satellite navigation
receiver
[5,000]
Joint Test and Evaluation DWR funding
restoration
[22,000]
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
210,090
237,090
TOTAL
OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE
210,090
237,090
TOTAL
RDT&E
106,224,793
106,660,645
4202.
Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas contingency
operations
SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
AND EVALUATION
FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, ARMY
APPLIED RESEARCH
16
0602145A
NEXT GENERATION
COMBAT VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
2,000
2,000
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
2,000
2,000
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
80
0603327A
AIR AND MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
500
500
114
0604785A
INTEGRATED BASE
DEFENSE (BUDGET ACTIVITY 4)
2,020
2,020
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
2,520
2,520
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
131
0604741A
AIR DEFENSE
COMMAND, CONTROL AND INTELLIGENCE—ENG DEV
27,000
27,000
159
0605035A
COMMON INFRARED
COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
2,300
2,300
166
0605051A
AIRCRAFT
SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT
64,625
64,625
183
0304270A
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
DEVELOPMENT
3,900
3,900
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
97,825
97,825
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
198
0605709A
EXPLOITATION OF
FOREIGN ITEMS
1,000
1,000
209
0606003A
COUNTERINTEL AND
HUMAN INTEL MODERNIZATION
4,137
4,137
SUBTOTAL
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
5,137
5,137
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
239
0203802A
OTHER MISSILE
PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
2,300
2,300
248
0303028A
SECURITY AND
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
23,367
23,367
257
0305204A
TACTICAL UNMANNED
AERIAL VEHICLES
34,100
34,100
258
0305206A
AIRBORNE
RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
15,575
15,575
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
75,342
75,342
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY
182,824
182,824
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, NAVY
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
39
0603527N
RETRACT
LARCH
36,500
36,500
58
0603654N
JOINT SERVICE
EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
14,461
14,461
63
0603734N
CHALK CORAL
3,000
3,000
71
0603795N
LAND ATTACK
TECHNOLOGY
1,457
1,457
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
55,418
55,418
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
DEMONSTRATION
142
0604755N
SHIP SELF DEFENSE
(DETECT & CONTROL)
1,144
1,144
SUBTOTAL
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
1,144
1,144
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
229
0206625M
USMC
INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP)
3,000
3,000
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
3,000
3,000
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY
59,562
59,562
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, AF
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
65
0305601F
MISSION PARTNER
ENVIRONMENTS
6,500
EDI: Mission Partner Environment
(MPE)
[6,500]
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
6,500
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
185
0205671F
JOINT COUNTER RCIED
ELECTRONIC WARFARE
4,080
4,080
228
0208288F
INTEL DATA
APPLICATIONS
1,224
1,224
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
5,304
5,304
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF
5,304
11,804
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
EVAL, DW
APPLIED RESEARCH
10
0602134BR
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED STUDIES
3,699
3,699
SUBTOTAL
APPLIED RESEARCH
3,699
3,699
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT
26
0603122D8Z
COMBATING TERRORISM
TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
19,288
19,288
28
0603134BR
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT SIMULATION
3,861
3,861
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
23,149
23,149
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT
& PROTOTYPES
97
0604134BR
COUNTER
IMPROVISED-THREAT DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT, AND
TESTING
19,931
19,931
SUBTOTAL
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
PROTOTYPES
19,931
19,931
9999999999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
24,057
24,057
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
DEVELOPMENT
260
1160408BB
OPERATIONAL
ENHANCEMENTS
1,186
1,186
261
1160431BB
WARRIOR
SYSTEMS
5,796
5,796
263
1160434BB
UNMANNED
ISR
5,000
5,000
SUBTOTAL
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
36,039
36,039
TOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW
82,818
82,818
TOTAL
RDT&E
330,508
337,008
XLIII
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
4301.
Operation and maintenance
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ARMY
OPERATING FORCES
020
MODULAR SUPPORT
BRIGADES
159,834
159,834
030
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
663,751
663,751
040
THEATER LEVEL
ASSETS
956,477
956,477
050
LAND FORCES
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
1,157,635
1,167,935
Joint Counter-UAS IOC acceleration
[10,300]
060
AVIATION
ASSETS
1,453,024
1,453,024
070
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
4,713,660
4,713,660
080
LAND FORCES SYSTEMS
READINESS
404,161
404,161
090
LAND FORCES DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
1,413,359
1,413,359
100
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
8,220,093
8,346,093
Child Development Center playground equipment
and furniture increases
[79,000]
Child Youth Service improvements
[47,000]
110
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
3,581,071
3,815,531
FSRM increase
[62,360]
MDTF EUCOM and INDOPACOM FSRM
[126,800]
Revitalization of Army deployment
infrastructure
[45,300]
120
MANAGEMENT AND
OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
411,844
411,844
160
US AFRICA
COMMAND
239,387
341,887
AFRICOM force protection upgrades
[2,500]
AFRICOM ISR improvements
[64,000]
AFRICOM UFR CASEVAC improvements
[36,000]
170
US EUROPEAN
COMMAND
160,761
160,761
180
US SOUTHERN
COMMAND
197,826
197,826
190
US FORCES
KOREA
65,152
65,152
200
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
430,109
435,109
Additional access and operations
support
[5,000]
210
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
464,117
464,117
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
24,692,261
25,170,521
MOBILIZATION
220
STRATEGIC
MOBILITY
402,236
402,236
230
ARMY PREPOSITIONED
STOCKS
324,306
324,306
240
INDUSTRIAL
PREPAREDNESS
3,653
3,653
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
730,195
730,195
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
250
OFFICER
ACQUISITION
165,142
165,142
260
RECRUIT
TRAINING
76,509
76,509
270
ONE STATION UNIT
TRAINING
88,523
88,523
280
SENIOR RESERVE
OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS
535,578
535,578
290
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
981,436
981,436
300
FLIGHT
TRAINING
1,204,768
1,204,768
310
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
215,195
215,195
320
TRAINING
SUPPORT
575,232
575,232
330
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
722,612
722,612
340
EXAMINING
185,522
185,522
350
OFF-DUTY AND
VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
221,503
221,503
360
CIVILIAN EDUCATION
AND TRAINING
154,651
154,651
370
JUNIOR RESERVE
OFFICER TRAINING CORPS
173,286
173,286
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
5,299,957
5,299,957
ADMIN & SRVWIDE
ACTIVITIES
390
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
491,926
466,926
Historical underexecution
[–25,000]
400
CENTRAL SUPPLY
ACTIVITIES
812,613
812,613
410
LOGISTIC SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES
676,178
676,178
420
AMMUNITION
MANAGEMENT
437,774
437,774
430
ADMINISTRATION
438,048
438,048
440
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
1,638,872
1,638,872
450
MANPOWER
MANAGEMENT
300,046
300,046
460
OTHER PERSONNEL
SUPPORT
701,103
700,103
Historical underexecution
[–4,000]
Servicewomen's commemorative
partnerships
[3,000]
470
OTHER SERVICE
SUPPORT
1,887,133
1,887,133
480
ARMY CLAIMS
ACTIVITIES
195,291
195,291
490
REAL ESTATE
MANAGEMENT
229,537
229,537
500
FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS
306,370
306,370
510
INTERNATIONAL
MILITARY HEADQUARTERS
373,030
373,030
520
MISC. SUPPORT OF
OTHER NATIONS
32,719
32,719
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
1,069,915
1,069,915
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
9,590,555
9,564,555
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–458,901
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–185,801]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–135,400]
Foreign currency adjustments
[–137,700]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–458,901
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
40,312,968
40,306,327
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
RES
OPERATING FORCES
010
MODULAR SUPPORT
BRIGADES
10,784
10,784
020
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
530,425
530,425
030
THEATER LEVEL
ASSETS
123,737
123,737
040
LAND FORCES
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
589,582
589,582
050
AVIATION
ASSETS
89,332
89,332
060
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
387,545
387,545
070
LAND FORCES SYSTEMS
READINESS
97,569
97,569
080
LAND FORCES DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
43,148
43,148
090
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
587,098
587,098
100
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
327,180
332,440
FSRM increase
[5,260]
110
MANAGEMENT AND
OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
28,783
28,783
120
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
2,745
2,745
130
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
7,438
7,438
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
2,825,366
2,830,626
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
140
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
15,530
15,530
150
ADMINISTRATION
17,761
17,761
160
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
14,256
14,256
170
MANPOWER
MANAGEMENT
6,564
6,564
180
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
55,240
55,240
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
109,351
109,351
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–16,699
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–11,999]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–4,700]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–16,699
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
2,934,717
2,923,278
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ARNG
OPERATING FORCES
010
MANEUVER
UNITS
769,449
769,449
020
MODULAR SUPPORT
BRIGADES
204,604
204,604
030
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
812,072
812,072
040
THEATER LEVEL
ASSETS
103,650
103,650
050
LAND FORCES
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
32,485
32,485
060
AVIATION
ASSETS
1,011,142
1,011,142
070
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
712,881
712,881
080
LAND FORCES SYSTEMS
READINESS
47,732
47,732
090
LAND FORCES DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
265,408
265,408
100
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
1,106,704
1,106,704
110
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
876,032
887,252
FSRM increase
[11,220]
120
MANAGEMENT AND
OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
1,050,257
1,050,257
130
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
7,998
10,998
Pilot program for National Guard
cybersecurity
[3,000]
140
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
7,756
7,756
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
7,008,170
7,022,390
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
150
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
8,018
8,018
160
ADMINISTRATION
74,309
74,309
170
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
66,140
66,140
180
MANPOWER
MANAGEMENT
9,087
9,087
190
OTHER PERSONNEL
SUPPORT
251,714
251,714
200
REAL ESTATE
MANAGEMENT
2,576
2,576
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
411,844
411,844
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–74,172
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–36,372]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–37,800]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–74,172
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
7,420,014
7,360,062
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
NAVY
OPERATING FORCES
010
MISSION AND OTHER
FLIGHT OPERATIONS
5,738,746
5,738,746
020
FLEET AIR
TRAINING
2,213,673
2,213,673
030
AVIATION TECHNICAL
DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES
57,144
57,144
040
AIR OPERATIONS AND
SAFETY SUPPORT
171,949
171,949
050
AIR SYSTEMS
SUPPORT
838,767
838,767
060
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
1,459,447
1,459,447
070
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
57,789
57,789
080
AVIATION
LOGISTICS
1,264,665
1,264,665
100
SHIP OPERATIONS
SUPPORT & TRAINING
1,117,067
1,117,067
110
SHIP DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
7,859,104
7,859,104
120
SHIP DEPOT
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
2,262,196
2,262,196
130
COMBAT
COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE
1,521,360
1,521,360
140
SPACE SYSTEMS AND
SURVEILLANCE
274,087
274,087
150
WARFARE
TACTICS
741,609
741,609
160
OPERATIONAL
METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY
401,382
401,382
170
COMBAT SUPPORT
FORCES
1,546,273
1,546,273
180
EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT
177,951
177,951
190
COMBATANT
COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS
61,484
66,484
PDI: Asia-Pacific Regional Initiative
[5,000]
200
COMBATANT
COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT
102,330
110,630
PDI: Joint Task Force Indo-Pacific
(SOCPAC)
[6,300]
PDI: Singapore CTIF fusion center
[2,000]
210
MILITARY
INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
8,810
26,510
PDI: Countering Chinese malign influence in
Indo-Pacific
[17,700]
220
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
567,496
567,496
230
FLEET BALLISTIC
MISSILE
1,428,102
1,428,102
240
WEAPONS
MAINTENANCE
995,762
995,762
250
OTHER WEAPON
SYSTEMS SUPPORT
524,008
524,008
260
ENTERPRISE
INFORMATION
1,229,056
1,229,056
270
SUSTAINMENT,
RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
3,453,099
3,453,099
280
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
4,627,966
4,627,966
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
40,701,322
40,732,322
MOBILIZATION
290
SHIP PREPOSITIONING
AND SURGE
849,993
849,993
300
READY RESERVE
FORCE
436,029
436,029
310
SHIP
ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS
286,416
286,416
320
EXPEDITIONARY
HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS
99,402
111,002
USNS Mercy SLEP
[11,600]
330
COAST GUARD
SUPPORT
25,235
25,235
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
1,697,075
1,708,675
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
340
OFFICER
ACQUISITION
186,117
186,117
350
RECRUIT
TRAINING
13,206
13,206
360
RESERVE OFFICERS
TRAINING CORPS
163,683
163,683
370
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
947,841
947,841
380
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
367,647
367,647
390
TRAINING
SUPPORT
254,928
254,928
400
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
206,305
206,305
410
OFF-DUTY AND
VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
103,799
103,799
420
CIVILIAN EDUCATION
AND TRAINING
66,060
66,060
430
JUNIOR ROTC
56,276
56,276
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
2,365,862
2,365,862
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
440
ADMINISTRATION
1,249,410
1,249,410
450
CIVILIAN MANPOWER
AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
189,625
189,625
460
MILITARY MANPOWER
AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
499,904
499,904
470
MEDICAL
ACTIVITIES
196,747
196,747
480
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
165,708
165,708
500
PLANNING,
ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
519,716
524,716
Energy Security Programs Office
[5,000]
510
ACQUISITION,
LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT
751,184
751,184
520
INVESTIGATIVE AND
SECURITY SERVICES
747,519
747,519
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
608,670
608,670
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
4,928,483
4,933,483
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–629,787
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–54,987]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–526,100]
Foreign currency adjustments
[–48,700]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–629,787
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
49,692,742
49,110,555
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
MARINE CORPS
OPERATING FORCES
010
OPERATIONAL
FORCES
941,143
941,143
020
FIELD
LOGISTICS
1,277,798
1,277,798
030
DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
206,907
206,907
040
MARITIME
PREPOSITIONING
103,614
103,614
050
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
215,974
215,974
060
SUSTAINMENT,
RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
938,063
938,063
070
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
2,264,680
2,264,680
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
5,948,179
5,948,179
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
080
RECRUIT
TRAINING
20,751
20,751
090
OFFICER
ACQUISITION
1,193
1,193
100
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
110,149
110,149
110
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
69,509
69,509
120
TRAINING
SUPPORT
412,613
412,613
130
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
215,464
215,464
140
OFF-DUTY AND
VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
33,719
33,719
150
JUNIOR ROTC
25,784
25,784
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
889,182
889,182
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
160
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
32,005
32,005
170
ADMINISTRATION
399,363
399,363
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
59,878
59,878
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
491,246
491,246
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–28,257
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–7,457]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–7,300]
Foreign currency adjustments
[–13,500]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–28,257
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
7,328,607
7,300,350
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
RES
OPERATING FORCES
010
MISSION AND OTHER
FLIGHT OPERATIONS
635,070
635,070
020
INTERMEDIATE
MAINTENANCE
8,713
8,713
030
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
105,088
105,088
040
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
398
398
050
AVIATION
LOGISTICS
27,284
27,284
070
COMBAT
COMMUNICATIONS
17,894
17,894
080
COMBAT SUPPORT
FORCES
132,862
132,862
090
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
453
453
100
ENTERPRISE
INFORMATION
26,073
26,073
110
SUSTAINMENT,
RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
48,762
48,762
120
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
103,580
103,580
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
1,106,177
1,106,177
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
130
ADMINISTRATION
1,927
1,927
140
MILITARY MANPOWER
AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
15,895
15,895
150
ACQUISITION AND
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
3,047
3,047
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
20,869
20,869
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–30,938
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–6,438]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–24,500]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–30,938
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
1,127,046
1,096,108
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010
OPERATING
FORCES
104,616
104,616
020
DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
17,053
17,053
030
SUSTAINMENT,
RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
41,412
41,412
040
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
107,773
107,773
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
270,854
270,854
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
050
ADMINISTRATION
13,802
13,802
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
13,802
13,802
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–1,246
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–1,046]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–200]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–1,246
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
284,656
283,410
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
010
PRIMARY COMBAT
FORCES
731,511
733,211
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons
[1,700]
020
COMBAT ENHANCEMENT
FORCES
1,275,485
1,275,485
030
AIR OPERATIONS
TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS)
1,437,095
1,449,495
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons
[12,400]
050
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
3,241,216
3,343,016
FSRM increase
[101,800]
060
CYBERSPACE
SUSTAINMENT
235,816
235,816
070
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
1,508,342
1,477,897
Transfer to OCO
[–30,445]
080
FLYING HOUR
PROGRAM
4,458,457
4,564,157
KC–10 tanker divestment reversal
[16,200]
KC–135 tanker divestment reversal
[36,600]
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons
[52,900]
090
BASE
SUPPORT
7,497,288
7,497,288
100
GLOBAL C3I AND
EARLY WARNING
849,842
880,642
PDI: Mission Partner Environment
implementation
[30,800]
110
OTHER COMBAT OPS
SPT PROGRAMS
1,067,055
1,067,055
120
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
698,579
698,579
150
SPACE CONTROL
SYSTEMS
34,194
34,194
160
US
NORTHCOM/NORAD
204,268
204,268
170
US STRATCOM
526,809
526,809
180
US CYBERCOM
314,524
356,224
Additional access and operations
support
[25,000]
Hunt Forward missions
[13,800]
Secure the DODIN
[2,900]
190
US CENTCOM
186,116
186,116
200
US SOCOM
9,881
9,881
210
US TRANSCOM
1,046
1,046
230
USSPACECOM
249,022
249,022
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
1,289,339
1,289,339
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
25,815,885
26,079,540
MOBILIZATION
240
AIRLIFT
OPERATIONS
1,350,031
1,350,031
250
MOBILIZATION
PREPAREDNESS
647,168
647,168
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
1,997,199
1,997,199
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
260
OFFICER
ACQUISITION
142,548
142,548
270
RECRUIT
TRAINING
25,720
25,720
280
RESERVE OFFICERS
TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)
128,295
128,295
290
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
417,335
417,335
300
FLIGHT
TRAINING
615,033
615,033
310
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
298,795
298,795
320
TRAINING
SUPPORT
85,844
85,844
330
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
155,065
135,065
Ahead of need
[–20,000]
340
EXAMINING
4,474
4,474
350
OFF-DUTY AND
VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
219,349
219,349
360
CIVILIAN EDUCATION
AND TRAINING
361,570
361,570
370
JUNIOR ROTC
72,126
72,126
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
2,526,154
2,506,154
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
380
LOGISTICS
OPERATIONS
672,426
672,426
390
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES
145,130
145,130
400
ADMINISTRATION
851,251
851,251
410
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
28,554
28,554
420
OTHER SERVICEWIDE
ACTIVITIES
1,188,414
1,188,414
430
CIVIL AIR
PATROL
28,772
28,772
450
INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT
158,803
158,803
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
1,338,009
1,338,009
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
4,411,359
4,411,359
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–765,956
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–89,856]
COVID-related throughput carryover
adjustment
[–75,800]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–560,200]
Foreign currency adjustments
[–40,100]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–765,956
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
34,750,597
34,228,296
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE
FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
020
GLOBAL C3I &
EARLY WARNING
276,109
276,109
030
SPACE LAUNCH
OPERATIONS
177,056
177,056
040
SPACE
OPERATIONS
475,338
475,338
050
EDUCATION &
TRAINING
18,660
18,660
060
SPECIAL
PROGRAMS
137,315
137,315
070
DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
250,324
250,324
080
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT
1,063,969
1,063,969
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
2,398,771
2,398,771
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE
ACTIVITIES
090
ADMINISTRATION
132,523
132,523
SUBTOTAL
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES
132,523
132,523
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–400
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–400]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–400
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
2,531,294
2,530,894
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010
PRIMARY COMBAT
FORCES
1,782,016
1,782,016
020
MISSION SUPPORT
OPERATIONS
215,209
215,209
030
DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
453,896
509,096
KC–10 tanker divestment reversal
[48,400]
KC–135 tanker divestment reversal
[3,400]
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons
[3,400]
040
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
103,414
107,614
FSRM increase
[4,200]
050
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
224,977
224,977
060
BASE
SUPPORT
452,468
452,468
070
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
2,259
2,259
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
3,234,239
3,293,639
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
ACTIVITIES
080
ADMINISTRATION
74,258
74,258
090
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
23,121
18,121
Ahead of need
[–5,000]
100
MILITARY MANPOWER
AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)
12,006
12,006
110
OTHER PERS SUPPORT
(DISABILITY COMP)
6,165
6,165
120
AUDIOVISUAL
495
495
SUBTOTAL
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
116,045
111,045
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–73,163
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–10,863]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–62,300]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–73,163
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
3,350,284
3,331,521
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ANG
OPERATING FORCES
010
AIRCRAFT
OPERATIONS
2,476,205
2,476,205
020
MISSION SUPPORT
OPERATIONS
611,325
611,325
030
DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
1,138,919
1,138,919
040
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
323,605
332,505
FSRM increase
[8,900]
050
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
1,100,828
1,100,828
060
BASE
SUPPORT
962,438
962,438
070
CYBERSPACE
SUSTAINMENT
27,028
27,028
080
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
16,380
19,380
Pilot program for National Guard
cybersecurity
[3,000]
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
6,656,728
6,668,628
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE
ACTIVITIES
090
ADMINISTRATION
48,218
48,218
100
RECRUITING AND
ADVERTISING
48,696
33,696
Ahead of need
[–15,000]
SUBTOTAL
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
96,914
81,914
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–122,052
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–15,852]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–106,200]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–122,052
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
6,753,642
6,628,490
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,
DEFENSE-WIDE
OPERATING FORCES
010
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF
439,111
439,111
020
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF—CE2T2
535,728
535,728
030
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF—CYBER
24,728
24,728
040
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
1,069,971
1,072,971
SOCOM Syria exfiltration
reconsitution
[3,000]
050
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
9,800
9,800
060
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND INTELLIGENCE
561,907
561,907
070
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND MAINTENANCE
685,097
707,097
Airborne ISR restoration
[22,000]
080
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
158,971
158,971
090
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
1,062,748
1,062,748
100
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND THEATER FORCES
2,598,385
2,599,685
Airborne ISR restoration
[1,300]
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
7,146,446
7,172,746
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
120
DEFENSE ACQUISITION
UNIVERSITY
162,963
162,963
130
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF
95,684
95,684
140
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
33,301
33,301
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
291,948
291,948
ADMIN & SRVWIDE
ACTIVITIES
160
CIVIL MILITARY
PROGRAMS
147,993
179,893
Innovative Readiness Training
[16,900]
STARBASE
[15,000]
180
DEFENSE CONTRACT
AUDIT AGENCY
604,835
604,835
190
DEFENSE CONTRACT
AUDIT AGENCY—CYBER
3,282
3,282
210
DEFENSE CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY
1,370,681
1,427,081
DWR restore activities
[56,400]
220
DEFENSE CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY—CYBER
22,532
22,532
230
DEFENSE
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY
949,008
952,008
DWR restore: Congressional oversight
[3,000]
250
DEFENSE
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY—CYBER
9,577
9,577
260
DEFENSE HUMAN
RESOURCES ACTIVITY
799,952
799,952
270
DEFENSE HUMAN
RESOURCES ACTIVITY—CYBER
20,806
20,806
280
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEMS AGENCY
1,883,190
1,923,190
Secure the DODIN
[40,000]
290
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEMS AGENCY—CYBER
582,639
577,939
JRSS SIPR funding
[–4,700]
330
DEFENSE LEGAL
SERVICES AGENCY
37,637
37,637
340
DEFENSE LOGISTICS
AGENCY
382,084
385,684
DWR restore: blankets for homeless
[3,600]
350
DEFENSE MEDIA
ACTIVITY
196,997
196,997
360
DEFENSE PERSONNEL
ACCOUNTING AGENCY
129,225
129,225
370
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY
598,559
598,559
Defense Institute for International Legal
Studies
[2,000]
Institute for Security Governance
[–2,000]
PDI: Maritime Security Initiative INDOPACOM
UFR
[163,000]
PDI: Transfer from Sec. 333 to Maritime
Security Initiative
[–163,000]
400
DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
38,432
38,432
410
DEFENSE THREAT
REDUCTION AGENCY
591,780
591,780
430
DEFENSE THREAT
REDUCTION AGENCY—CYBER
24,635
24,635
440
DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
2,941,429
3,012,929
DWR restore: maintain student-teacher ratios
in DODEA schools
[1,500]
Impact Aid for children with severe
disabilities
[20,000]
Impact Aid for schools with military
dependent students
[50,000]
450
MISSILE DEFENSE
AGENCY
505,858
505,858
480
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
ADJUSTMENT
40,272
90,272
Defense Community Infrastruture Program
infusion
[50,000]
490
OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
1,540,446
1,613,946
AI National Security Commission
[2,500]
Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup
[15,000]
Black Start ERREs
[2,000]
CDC PFAS health assessment
[10,000]
Commission on Confederate symbols and
displays
[2,000]
Cooperative program for Vietnam personnel
MIA
[2,000]
DWR restore: Congressional background
investigations
[–3,000]
Energy performance contracts
[10,000]
ESOH personnel in ASD(S)
[2,000]
FY20 NDAA Sec. 575 interstate spousal
licensing
[4,000]
National Cyber Director independent
study
[2,000]
REPI
[25,000]
500
OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE—CYBER
51,630
51,630
510
SPACE DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY
48,166
48,166
530
WASHINGTON
HEADQUARTERS SERVICES
340,291
343,291
DWR restore: support to commissions
[3,000]
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
17,348,749
17,348,749
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
31,210,685
31,538,885
UNDISTRIBUTED
999
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–172,839
COVID-related ops/training slowdown
[–129,339]
Excessive standard price for fuel
[–14,800]
Foreign currency adjustments
[–28,700]
SUBTOTAL
UNDISTRIBUTED
0
–172,839
TOTAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
38,649,079
38,830,740
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED
FORCES, DEFENSE
010
US COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE
15,211
15,211
SUBTOTAL US
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES,
DEFENSE
15,211
15,211
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
15,211
15,211
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER
AND CIVIC AID
010
OVERSEAS
HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
109,900
109,900
SUBTOTAL
OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
109,900
109,900
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
109,900
109,900
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
COOPERATIVE THREAT
REDUCTION
010
COOPERATIVE THREAT
REDUCTION
238,490
288,490
DWR restore: Biological Threat Reduction
Program
[50,000]
SUBTOTAL
COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
238,490
288,490
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
238,490
288,490
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT
010
ACQ WORKFORCE DEV
FD
58,181
156,680
DWR restore OSD-level acquisition workforce
activities
[98,499]
SUBTOTAL
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
58,181
156,680
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
58,181
156,680
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
ARMY
050
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION, ARMY
207,518
207,518
SUBTOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
207,518
207,518
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
207,518
207,518
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
NAVY
060
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION, NAVY
335,932
335,932
SUBTOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
335,932
335,932
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
335,932
335,932
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR
FORCE
070
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
303,926
303,926
SUBTOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
303,926
303,926
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
303,926
303,926
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
DEFENSE
080
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION, DEFENSE
9,105
9,105
SUBTOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
9,105
9,105
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
9,105
9,105
MISCELLANEOUS
APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY
USED SITES
090
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
216,587
216,587
SUBTOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
216,587
216,587
TOTAL
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
216,587
216,587
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
196,630,496
195,573,380
4302.
Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency operations
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ARMY
OPERATING FORCES
010
MANEUVER
UNITS
4,114,001
4,114,001
030
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
32,811
32,811
040
THEATER LEVEL
ASSETS
2,542,760
2,545,410
EDI: Support to deterrent activities
[2,650]
050
LAND FORCES
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
162,557
162,557
060
AVIATION
ASSETS
204,396
204,396
070
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
5,716,734
5,721,224
EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE
0202218A
[1,490]
EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE
1001010A
[3,000]
080
LAND FORCES SYSTEMS
READINESS
180,048
180,048
090
LAND FORCES DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
81,125
81,125
100
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
219,029
219,029
110
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
301,017
301,017
130
ADDITIONAL
ACTIVITIES
966,649
966,649
140
COMMANDER'S
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM
2,500
2,000
Hero payments funded by ASFF
[–500]
150
RESET
403,796
403,796
160
US AFRICA
COMMAND
100,422
100,422
170
US EUROPEAN
COMMAND
120,043
144,143
EDI: Continuity of operations support
[2,100]
EDI: Modernizing Mission Partner Environment
(MPE)
[22,000]
200
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
98,461
98,461
210
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
21,256
21,256
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
15,267,605
15,298,345
MOBILIZATION
230
ARMY PREPOSITIONED
STOCKS
103,052
103,052
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
103,052
103,052
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
290
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
89,943
89,943
320
TRAINING
SUPPORT
2,550
2,550
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
92,493
92,493
ADMIN & SRVWIDE
ACTIVITIES
390
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
521,090
521,090
400
CENTRAL SUPPLY
ACTIVITIES
43,897
43,897
410
LOGISTIC SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES
68,423
68,423
420
AMMUNITION
MANAGEMENT
29,162
29,162
440
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
11,447
11,447
470
OTHER SERVICE
SUPPORT
5,839
5,839
490
REAL ESTATE
MANAGEMENT
48,782
48,782
510
INTERNATIONAL
MILITARY HEADQUARTERS
50,000
50,000
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
895,964
895,964
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
1,674,604
1,674,604
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
17,137,754
17,168,494
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
RES
OPERATING FORCES
020
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
17,193
17,193
060
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
440
440
090
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
15,766
15,766
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
33,399
33,399
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
33,399
33,399
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ARNG
OPERATING FORCES
010
MANEUVER
UNITS
25,746
25,746
020
MODULAR SUPPORT
BRIGADES
40
40
030
ECHELONS ABOVE
BRIGADE
983
983
040
THEATER LEVEL
ASSETS
22
22
060
AVIATION
ASSETS
20,624
20,624
070
FORCE READINESS
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
7,914
7,914
100
BASE OPERATIONS
SUPPORT
24,417
24,417
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
79,746
79,746
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
170
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
46
46
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
46
46
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
79,792
79,792
AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
FUND
AFGHAN NATIONAL
ARMY
010
SUSTAINMENT
1,065,932
1,065,932
020
INFRASTRUCTURE
64,501
64,501
030
EQUIPMENT AND
TRANSPORTATION
47,854
47,854
040
TRAINING AND
OPERATIONS
56,780
56,780
SUBTOTAL
AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
1,235,067
1,235,067
AFGHAN NATIONAL
POLICE
050
SUSTAINMENT
434,500
434,500
060
INFRASTRUCTURE
448
448
070
EQUIPMENT AND
TRANSPORTATION
108,231
108,231
080
TRAINING AND
OPERATIONS
58,993
58,993
SUBTOTAL
AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
602,172
602,172
AFGHAN AIR FORCE
090
SUSTAINMENT
534,102
534,102
100
INFRASTRUCTURE
9,532
9,532
110
EQUIPMENT AND
TRANSPORTATION
58,487
58,487
120
TRAINING AND
OPERATIONS
233,803
233,803
SUBTOTAL
AFGHAN AIR FORCE
835,924
835,924
AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY
FORCES
130
SUSTAINMENT
680,024
680,024
140
INFRASTRUCTURE
2,532
2,532
150
EQUIPMENT AND
TRANSPORTATION
486,808
486,808
160
TRAINING AND
OPERATIONS
173,085
173,085
SUBTOTAL
AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
1,342,449
1,342,449
TOTAL
AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND
4,015,612
4,015,612
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
NAVY
OPERATING FORCES
010
MISSION AND OTHER
FLIGHT OPERATIONS
382,062
382,062
030
AVIATION TECHNICAL
DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES
832
832
040
AIR OPERATIONS AND
SAFETY SUPPORT
17,840
17,840
050
AIR SYSTEMS
SUPPORT
210,692
210,692
060
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
170,580
170,580
070
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
5,854
5,854
080
AVIATION
LOGISTICS
33,707
33,707
090
MISSION AND OTHER
SHIP OPERATIONS
5,817,696
5,817,696
100
SHIP OPERATIONS
SUPPORT & TRAINING
20,741
20,741
110
SHIP DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
2,072,470
2,072,470
130
COMBAT
COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE
59,254
59,254
140
SPACE SYSTEMS AND
SURVEILLANCE
18,000
18,000
150
WARFARE
TACTICS
17,324
17,324
160
OPERATIONAL
METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY
22,581
22,581
170
COMBAT SUPPORT
FORCES
772,441
772,441
180
EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT
5,788
5,788
200
COMBATANT
COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT
24,800
24,800
220
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
369
369
240
WEAPONS
MAINTENANCE
567,247
567,247
250
OTHER WEAPON
SYSTEMS SUPPORT
12,571
12,571
270
SUSTAINMENT,
RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
70,041
70,041
280
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
218,792
218,792
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
10,521,682
10,521,682
MOBILIZATION
320
EXPEDITIONARY
HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS
22,589
22,589
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
22,589
22,589
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
370
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
53,204
53,204
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
53,204
53,204
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
440
ADMINISTRATION
9,983
9,983
460
MILITARY MANPOWER
AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
7,805
7,805
480
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
72,097
72,097
510
ACQUISITION,
LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT
11,354
11,354
520
INVESTIGATIVE AND
SECURITY SERVICES
1,591
1,591
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
102,830
102,830
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
10,700,305
10,700,305
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
MARINE CORPS
OPERATING FORCES
010
OPERATIONAL
FORCES
727,989
745,489
EDI: Globally Integrated Exercise
20–4/Austere Challenge 21.3
[10,000]
EDI: Marine European training program
[7,500]
020
FIELD
LOGISTICS
195,001
195,001
030
DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
55,183
55,183
050
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
10,000
10,000
070
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
24,569
24,569
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
1,012,742
1,030,242
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
120
TRAINING
SUPPORT
28,458
28,458
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
28,458
28,458
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
160
SERVICEWIDE
TRANSPORTATION
61,400
61,400
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
61,400
61,400
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
1,102,600
1,120,100
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
RES
OPERATING FORCES
020
INTERMEDIATE
MAINTENANCE
522
522
030
AIRCRAFT DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
11,861
11,861
080
COMBAT SUPPORT
FORCES
9,109
9,109
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
21,492
21,492
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
21,492
21,492
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010
OPERATING
FORCES
7,627
7,627
040
BASE OPERATING
SUPPORT
1,080
1,080
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
8,707
8,707
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
8,707
8,707
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
010
PRIMARY COMBAT
FORCES
125,551
125,551
020
COMBAT ENHANCEMENT
FORCES
916,538
916,538
030
AIR OPERATIONS
TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS)
93,970
93,970
040
DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
3,528,059
3,528,059
050
FACILITIES
SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION
147,264
147,264
060
CYBERSPACE
SUSTAINMENT
10,842
10,842
070
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
7,187,100
7,217,545
Transfer from base
[30,445]
080
FLYING HOUR
PROGRAM
2,031,548
2,031,548
090
BASE
SUPPORT
1,540,444
1,540,444
100
GLOBAL C3I AND
EARLY WARNING
13,709
13,709
110
OTHER COMBAT OPS
SPT PROGRAMS
345,800
345,800
120
CYBERSPACE
ACTIVITIES
17,936
17,936
130
TACTICAL INTEL AND
OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
36,820
36,820
140
LAUNCH
FACILITIES
70
70
150
SPACE CONTROL
SYSTEMS
1,450
1,450
160
US
NORTHCOM/NORAD
725
725
170
US STRATCOM
856
856
180
US CYBERCOM
35,189
35,189
190
US CENTCOM
126,934
126,934
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
16,160,805
16,191,250
MOBILIZATION
240
AIRLIFT
OPERATIONS
1,271,439
1,271,439
250
MOBILIZATION
PREPAREDNESS
120,866
120,866
SUBTOTAL
MOBILIZATION
1,392,305
1,392,305
TRAINING AND
RECRUITING
260
OFFICER
ACQUISITION
200
200
270
RECRUIT
TRAINING
352
352
290
SPECIALIZED SKILL
TRAINING
27,010
27,010
300
FLIGHT
TRAINING
844
844
310
PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
1,199
1,199
320
TRAINING
SUPPORT
1,320
1,320
SUBTOTAL
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
30,925
30,925
ADMIN & SRVWD
ACTIVITIES
380
LOGISTICS
OPERATIONS
164,701
164,701
390
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES
11,782
11,782
400
ADMINISTRATION
3,886
3,886
410
SERVICEWIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
355
355
420
OTHER SERVICEWIDE
ACTIVITIES
100,831
85,831
OSC-I transition to normalized security
cooperation
[–15,000]
450
INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT
29,928
29,928
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
34,502
34,502
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
345,985
330,985
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
17,930,020
17,945,465
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE
FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
020
GLOBAL C3I &
EARLY WARNING
227
227
030
SPACE LAUNCH
OPERATIONS
321
321
040
SPACE
OPERATIONS
15,135
15,135
070
DEPOT
MAINTENANCE
18,268
18,268
080
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT
43,164
43,164
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
77,115
77,115
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
77,115
77,115
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
030
DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
24,408
24,408
060
BASE
SUPPORT
5,682
5,682
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
30,090
30,090
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
30,090
30,090
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
ANG
OPERATING FORCES
020
MISSION SUPPORT
OPERATIONS
3,739
3,739
030
DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
61,862
61,862
050
CONTRACTOR
LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
97,108
97,108
060
BASE
SUPPORT
12,933
12,933
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
175,642
175,642
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
175,642
175,642
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,
DEFENSE-WIDE
OPERATING FORCES
010
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF
3,799
3,799
020
JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF—CE2T2
6,634
6,634
040
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
898,024
898,024
060
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND INTELLIGENCE
1,244,553
1,244,553
070
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND MAINTENANCE
354,951
381,951
Airborne ISR restoration
[27,000]
090
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
104,535
104,535
100
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND THEATER FORCES
757,744
757,744
SUBTOTAL
OPERATING FORCES
3,370,240
3,397,240
ADMIN & SRVWIDE
ACTIVITIES
180
DEFENSE CONTRACT
AUDIT AGENCY
1,247
1,247
210
DEFENSE CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY
21,723
21,723
280
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEMS AGENCY
56,256
56,256
290
DEFENSE INFORMATION
SYSTEMS AGENCY—CYBER
3,524
3,524
330
DEFENSE LEGAL
SERVICES AGENCY
156,373
156,373
350
DEFENSE MEDIA
ACTIVITY
3,555
3,555
370
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY
1,557,763
1,880,263
Transfer from CTEF for Iraq train and equip
requirements
[322,500]
410
DEFENSE THREAT
REDUCTION AGENCY
297,486
297,486
490
OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
16,984
16,984
530
WASHINGTON
HEADQUARTERS SERVICES
1,997
1,997
9999
CLASSIFIED
PROGRAMS
535,106
535,106
SUBTOTAL
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
2,652,014
2,974,514
TOTAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
6,022,254
6,371,754
TOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
57,334,782
57,747,967
XLIV
MILITARY PERSONNEL
4401.
Military personnel
SEC. 4401. MILITARY
PERSONNEL
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL
APPROPRIATIONS
150,524,104
147,976,014
COVID related endstrength
decreases
[–755,000]
Foreign currency
adjustments, Air Force
[–81,800]
Foreign currency
adjustments, Army
[–44,400]
Foreign currency
adjustments, Marine Corps
[–13,900]
Foreign currency
adjustments, Navy
[–41,300]
Military personnel
historical underexecution
[–1,611,690]
SUBTOTAL MILITARY
PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
150,524,104
147,976,014
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND
CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE
HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS
8,372,741
8,372,741
SUBTOTAL
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND
CONTRIBUTIONS
8,372,741
8,372,741
TOTAL MILITARY
PERSONNEL
158,896,845
156,348,755
4402.
Military personnel for overseas contingency operations
SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL
APPROPRIATIONS
4,602,593
4,602,593
SUBTOTAL MILITARY
PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
4,602,593
4,602,593
TOTAL MILITARY
PERSONNEL
4,602,593
4,602,593
XLV
OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
4501.
Other authorizations
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
WORKING CAPITAL
FUND
WORKING CAPITAL FUND,
ARMY
010
INDUSTRIAL
OPERATIONS
32,551
5,551
One-time COVID-related carryover
decrease
[–27,000]
020
SUPPLY
MANAGEMENT—ARMY
24,166
1,166
One-time COVID-related carryover
decrease
[–23,000]
SUBTOTAL
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
56,717
6,717
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR
FORCE
020
SUPPLIES AND
MATERIALS
95,712
5,712
Air Force cash corpus for energy
optimization
[10,000]
One-time COVID-related carryover
decrease
[–100,000]
SUBTOTAL
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
191,424
101,424
WORKING CAPITAL FUND,
DEFENSE-WIDE
020
SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT—DEF
49,821
49,821
SUBTOTAL
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
49,821
49,821
WORKING CAPITAL FUND,
DECA
010
WORKING CAPITAL
FUND, DECA
1,146,660
1,146,660
SUBTOTAL
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
1,146,660
1,146,660
TOTAL WORKING
CAPITAL FUND
1,444,622
1,304,622
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
DESTRUCTION
OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE
1
CHEM
DEMILITARIZATION—O&M
106,691
106,691
SUBTOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
106,691
106,691
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND
EVALUATION
2
CHEM
DEMILITARIZATION—RDT&E
782,193
782,193
SUBTOTAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
782,193
782,193
PROCUREMENT
3
CHEM
DEMILITARIZATION—PROC
616
616
SUBTOTAL
PROCUREMENT
616
616
TOTAL CHEM
AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
889,500
889,500
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTRDCTN
010
COUNTER-NARCOTICS
SUPPORT
546,203
562,003
PDI: Joint Interagency Task Force—West
Project 3309
[13,000]
PDI: Joint Interagency Task Force—West
Project 9202
[2,800]
SUBTOTAL DRUG
INTRDCTN
546,203
562,003
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION
PROGRAM
020
DRUG DEMAND
REDUCTION PROGRAM
123,704
123,704
SUBTOTAL DRUG
DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
123,704
123,704
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
PROGRAM
030
NATIONAL GUARD
COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM
94,211
94,211
SUBTOTAL
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM
94,211
94,211
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
SCHOOLS
040
NATIONAL GUARD
COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS
5,511
5,511
SUBTOTAL
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS
5,511
5,511
TOTAL DRUG
INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF
769,629
785,429
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL
010
OFFICE OF THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL
368,279
368,279
030
OFFICE OF THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL—CYBER
1,204
1,204
040
OFFICE OF THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL
1,098
1,098
050
OFFICE OF THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL
858
858
SUBTOTAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
371,439
371,439
TOTAL OFFICE
OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
371,439
371,439
DEFENSE HEALTH
PROGRAM
OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE
010
IN-HOUSE
CARE
9,560,564
9,560,564
020
PRIVATE SECTOR
CARE
15,841,887
15,841,887
030
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH
SUPPORT
1,338,269
1,338,269
040
INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT
2,039,910
2,039,910
050
MANAGEMENT
ACTIVITIES
330,627
330,627
060
EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
315,691
315,691
070
BASE
OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS
1,922,605
1,927,605
National Disaster Medical System pilot
program
[5,000]
SUBTOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
31,349,553
31,354,553
RDT&E
080
R&D
RESEARCH
8,913
8,913
090
R&D EXPLORATRY
DEVELOPMENT
73,984
73,984
100
R&D ADVANCED
DEVELOPMENT
225,602
225,602
110
R&D
DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION
132,331
132,331
120
R&D ENGINEERING
DEVELOPMENT
55,748
55,748
130
R&D MANAGEMENT
AND SUPPORT
48,672
48,672
140
R&D
CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT
17,215
17,215
SUBTOTAL
RDT&E
562,465
562,465
PROCUREMENT
150
PROC INITIAL
OUTFITTING
22,932
22,932
160
PROC REPLACEMENT
& MODERNIZATION
215,618
215,618
170
PROC MILITARY
HEALTH SYSTEM—DESKTOP TO DATACENTER
70,872
70,872
180
PROC DOD HEALTHCARE
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
308,504
308,504
SUBTOTAL
PROCUREMENT
617,926
617,926
SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
PILOT PROGRAMS
190
SOFTWARE &
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
160,428
160,428
SUBTOTAL
SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT
PROGRAMS
160,428
160,428
TOTAL DEFENSE
HEALTH PROGRAM
32,690,372
32,695,372
TOTAL OTHER
AUTHORIZATIONS
36,711,765
36,592,565
4502.
Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations
SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Line
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
WORKING CAPITAL
FUND
WORKING CAPITAL FUND,
ARMY
020
SUPPLY
MANAGEMENT—ARMY
20,090
20,090
SUBTOTAL
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
20,090
20,090
TOTAL WORKING
CAPITAL FUND
20,090
20,090
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL
010
OFFICE OF THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL
24,069
24,069
SUBTOTAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
24,069
24,069
TOTAL OFFICE
OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
24,069
24,069
DEFENSE HEALTH
PROGRAM
OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE
010
IN-HOUSE
CARE
65,072
65,072
020
PRIVATE SECTOR
CARE
296,828
296,828
030
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH
SUPPORT
3,198
3,198
SUBTOTAL
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
365,098
365,098
TOTAL DEFENSE
HEALTH PROGRAM
365,098
365,098
COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
(CTEF)
COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
(CTEF)
010
IRAQ
645,000
322,500
Transfer traditional BPC activities to
DSCA
[–322,500]
020
SYRIA
200,000
200,000
SUBTOTAL
COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
845,000
522,500
TOTAL COUNTER
ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
845,000
522,500
TOTAL OTHER
AUTHORIZATIONS
1,254,257
931,757
XLVI
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
4601.
Military construction
SEC. 4601. MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Account
State/Country and
Installation
Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
Alaska
Army
Fort
Wainwright
Child Development
Center
0
55,000
Army
Fort
Wainwright
Unaccompanied
Enlisted Personnel Housing
0
59,000
Arizona
Army
Yuma Proving
Ground
Ready
Building
14,000
14,000
California
Army
Military Ocean
Terminal Concord
Ammunition Holding
Facility
0
46,000
Colorado
Army
Fort
Carson
Physical Fitness
Facility
28,000
28,000
Florida
Army
JIATF-S
Operations Center
Planning &
Design
0
8,000
Georgia
Army
Fort
Gillem
Forensic
Laboratory
71,000
71,000
Army
Fort
Gordon
Adv Individual
Training Barracks Cplx, Ph3
80,000
80,000
Hawaii
Army
Aliamanu
Military Reservation
Child Development
Center—School Age
0
71,000
Army
Schofield
Barracks
Child Development
Center
0
39,000
Army
Wheeler Army Air
Field
Aircraft
Maintenance Hangar
89,000
89,000
Italy
Army
Casmera Renato
Dal Din
Access Control
Point
0
10,200
Louisiana
Army
Fort
Polk
Information Systems
Facility
25,000
25,000
Oklahoma
Army
McAlester
AAP
Ammunition
Demolition Shop
35,000
35,000
Pennsylvania
Army
Carlisle
Barracks
General Instruction
Building (Inc 2)
38,000
8,000
South Carolina
Army
Fort
Jackson
Trainee Barracks
Complex 3, Ph2
0
7,000
Virginia
Army
Humphreys
Engineer Center
Training Support
Facility
51,000
51,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
129,436
59,436
Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Host Nation
Support
39,000
39,000
Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
50,900
74,900
SUBTOTAL
ARMY
650,336
869,536
NAVY
Bahrain Island
Navy
SW Asia
Ship to Shore
Utility Services
68,340
68,340
California
Navy
Camp
Pendleton
Combat Water
Survival Training Facility
0
25,200
Navy
Camp
Pendleton
Warehouse
Consolidation and Modernization
0
21,800
Navy
Camp
Pendleton
I MEF Consolidated
Information Center (INC)
37,000
37,000
Navy
Camp
Pendleton
1st MARDIV
Operations Complex
68,530
68,530
Navy
Lemoore
F–35C Simulator
Facility & Electrical Upgrade
59,150
59,150
Navy
Lemoore
F–35C Hangar 6
Phase 2 (Mod 3/4)
128,070
53,000
Navy
Point
Mugu
Directed Energy
Test Facility
0
26,700
Navy
Port
Hueneme
Combat Vehicle
Maintenance Facilities
0
43,500
Navy
San
Diego
Pier 6
Replacement
128,500
63,500
Navy
Seal
Beach
Magazines
0
46,800
Navy
Twentynine
Palms
Wastewater
Treatment Plant
76,500
76,500
Greece
Navy
Souda
Bay
Communication
Center
50,180
50,180
Guam
Navy
Andersen Air
Force Base
Ordnance Operations
Admin
21,280
21,280
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
DAR Road
Strengthening
70,760
70,760
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
DAR Bridge
Improvements
40,180
40,180
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Central Fuel
Station
35,950
17,950
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Distribution
Warehouse
77,930
77,930
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Combined EOD
Facility
37,600
37,600
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Bachelor Enlisted
Quarters (Inc)
80,000
10,000
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Joint Communication
Upgrade
166,000
26,000
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Base
Warehouse
55,410
55,410
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Individual Combat
Skills Training
17,430
17,430
Navy
Joint Region
Marianas
Central Issue
Facility
45,290
45,290
Hawaii
Navy
Joint Base Pearl
Harbor-Hickam
Waterfront
Improvements Wharves S8–S10
65,910
65,910
Navy
Joint Base Pearl
Harbor-Hickam
Waterfront Improve,
Wharves S1,S11–13,S20–21
48,990
48,990
Honduras
Navy
Comalapa
Long Range Maritime
Patrol Aircraft Hangar and Ramp
0
28,000
Japan
Navy
Yokosuka
Pier 5 (Berths 2
and 3) (Inc)
74,692
44,692
Maine
Navy
Kittery
Multi-Mission
Drydock #1 Exten., Ph 1 (Inc)
160,000
160,000
Navy
NCTAMS LANT
Detachment Cutler
Perimeter
Security
0
26,100
Nevada
Navy
Fallon
Range Training
Complex, Phase 1
29,040
29,040
North Carolina
Navy
Camp
Lejeune
II MEF Operations
Center Replacement (Inc)
20,000
20,000
Navy
Cherry
Point
Fitness Center
Replacement and Training Pool
0
51,900
Spain
Navy
Rota
MH–60R Squadron
Support Facilities
60,110
60,110
Virginia
Navy
Norfolk
Sub Logistics
Support
0
9,400
Navy
Norfolk
MH60 & CMV–22B
Corrosion Control & Paint Facility
17,671
17,671
Navy
Norfolk
E–2D Training
Facility
30,400
30,400
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
38,983
38,983
Navy
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
165,710
165,710
SUBTOTAL
NAVY
1,975,606
1,856,936
AIR
FORCE
Colorado
Air Force
Schriever Air
Force Base
Consolidated Space
Operations Facility, (Inc 2)
88,000
88,000
Air Force
United States
Air Force Academy
Cadet Preparatory
School Dormitory
0
49,000
Guam
Air Force
Joint Region
Marianas
Stand Off Weapons
Complex, MSA 2
56,000
56,000
Mariana Islands
Air Force
Tinian
Fuel Tanks With
Pipeline & Hydrant Sys, (Inc 2)
7,000
7,000
Air Force
Tinian
Airfield
Development Phase 1, (Inc 2)
20,000
20,000
Air Force
Tinian
Parking Apron, (Inc
2)
15,000
15,000
Montana
Air Force
Malmstrom Air
Force Base
Weapons Storage
& Maintenance Facility, (Inc 2)
25,000
25,000
New Jersey
Air Force
Joint Base
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
Munitions Storage
Area
22,000
22,000
Qatar
Air Force
Al Udeid
Cargo Marshalling
Yard
26,000
26,000
South Dakota
Air Force
Ellsworth Air
Force Base
B–21 2–Bay LO
Restoration Facility
0
10,000
Texas
Air Force
Joint Base San
Antonio
BMT Recruit
Dormitory 8, (Inc 2)
36,000
36,000
Air Force
Joint Base San
Antonio
T-X ADAL Ground
Based Trng Sys Sim
19,500
19,500
Utah
Air Force
Hill Air Force
Base
GBSD Organic
Software Sustainment Center
0
20,000
Air Force
Hill Air Force
Base
GBSD Mission
Integration Facility, (Inc 2)
68,000
68,000
Virginia
Air Force
Joint Base
Langley-Eustis
Access Control
Point Main Gate With Land Acq
19,500
19,500
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Cost to
Complete
0
29,422
Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
296,532
116,532
Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
68,600
68,600
SUBTOTAL AIR
FORCE
767,132
695,554
DEFENSE-WIDE
Alabama
Defense-Wide
Anniston Army
Depot
Demilitarization
Facility
18,000
18,000
Alaska
Defense-Wide
Fort
Greely
Communications
Center
48,000
48,000
Albama
Defense-Wide
Fort
Rucker
Construct 10mw
Generation & Microgrid
0
24,000
Arizona
Defense-Wide
Fort
Huachuca
Laboratory
Building
33,728
33,728
Defense-Wide
Yuma
SOF Hangar
49,500
49,500
Arkansas
Defense-Wide
Fort Smith Air
National Guard Base
PV Arrays and
Battery Storage
0
2,600
California
Defense-Wide
Beale Air Force
Base
Bulk Fuel
Tank
22,800
22,800
Colorado
Defense-Wide
Fort
Carson
SOF Tactical
Equipment Maintenance Facility
15,600
15,600
CONUS Unspecified
Defense-Wide
CONUS
Unspecified
Training Target
Structure
14,400
14,400
Florida
Defense-Wide
Hurlburt
Field
SOF Special Tactics
Ops Facility (23 STS)
44,810
44,810
Defense-Wide
Hurlburt
Field
SOF Combat Aircraft
Parking Apron-North
38,310
38,310
Georgia
Defense-Wide
Fort
Benning
Construct 4.8mw
Generation & Microgrid
0
17,000
Germany
Defense-Wide
Rhine Ordnance
Barracks
Medical Center
Replacement (Inc 9)
200,000
0
Japan
Defense-Wide
Def Fuel Support
Point Tsurumi
Fuel Wharf
49,500
49,500
Defense-Wide
Yokosuka
Kinnick High School
(Inc)
30,000
0
Kentucky
Defense-Wide
Fort
Knox
Van Voorhis
Elementary School
69,310
69,310
Maryland
Defense-Wide
Bethesda Naval
Hospital
MEDCEN
Addition/Alteration (Inc 4)
180,000
50,000
Defense-Wide
Fort
Meade
NSAW Recapitalize
Building #3 (Inc)
250,000
250,000
Mississippi
Defense-Wide
MTA Camp
Shelby
Construct 10mw
Generation Plant and Microgrid System
0
30,000
Missouri
Defense-Wide
Fort Leonard
Wood
Hospital
Replacement (Inc 3)
40,000
40,000
Defense-Wide
St Louis
Next NGA West (N2W)
Complex Phase 2 (Inc)
119,000
60,000
New Mexico
Defense-Wide
Kirtland Air
Force Base
Administrative
Building
46,600
46,600
North Carolina
Defense-Wide
Fort
Bragg
SOTF Chilled Water
Upgrade
0
6,100
Defense-Wide
Fort
Bragg
SOF Military
Working Dog Facility
17,700
17,700
Defense-Wide
Fort
Bragg
SOF Group
Headquarters
53,100
53,100
Defense-Wide
Fort
Bragg
SOF Operations
Facility
43,000
43,000
Ohio
Defense-Wide
Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base
Intelligence
Facility Central Utility Plant
0
35,000
Defense-Wide
Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base
Hydrant Fuel
System
23,500
23,500
Tennessee
Defense-Wide
Memphis
International Airport
PV Arrays and
Battery Storage
0
4,780
Texas
Defense-Wide
Fort
Hood
Fuel
Facilities
32,700
32,700
Virginia
Defense-Wide
Joint
Expeditionary Base Little Creek—Story
SOF DCS Operations
Fac. and Command Center
54,500
54,500
Defense-Wide
Joint
Expeditionary Base Little Creek—Story
SOF NSWG–2 NSWTG
CSS Facilities
58,000
58,000
Washington
Defense-Wide
Joint Base
Lewis-McChord
Fuel Facilities
(Lewis North)
10,900
10,900
Defense-Wide
Joint Base
Lewis-McChord
Fuel Facilities
(Lewis Main)
10,900
10,900
Defense-Wide
Manchester
Bulk Fuel Storage
Tanks Phase 1
82,000
82,000
Washington DC
Defense-Wide
Joint Base
Anacostia-Bolling
DIA HQ Cooling
Towers and Cond Pumps
0
1,963
Defense-Wide
Joint Base
Anacostia-Bolling
Industrial Controls
System Modernization
0
8,749
Defense-Wide
Joint Base
Anacostia-Bolling
PV Carports
0
25,221
Worldwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
8,000
8,000
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
27,746
27,746
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
4,922
4,922
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
17,698
17,698
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
20,000
20,000
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Energy Resilience
and Conserv. Invest. Prog.
142,500
142,500
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
3,000
3,000
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
10,647
10,647
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
ERCIP
Design
14,250
14,250
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
10,303
10,303
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Exercise Related
Minor Construction
5,840
5,840
Defense-Wide
Various
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
32,624
32,624
Defense-Wide
Various
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
9,726
9,726
Defense-Wide
Various
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
64,406
64,406
Worlwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design—Military Installation Resiliency
0
50,000
Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design—Pacific Deterrence Initiative
0
15,000
SUBTOTAL
DEFENSE-WIDE
2,027,520
1,828,933
ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
Arizona
Army National Guard
Tucson
National Guard
Readiness Center
18,100
18,100
Arkansas
Army National Guard
Fort
Chaffee
National Guard
Readiness Center
0
15,000
California
Army National Guard
Bakersfield
National Guard
Vehicle Maintenance Shop
0
9,300
Colorado
Army National Guard
Peterson Air
Force Base
National Guard
Readiness Center
15,000
15,000
Indiana
Army National Guard
Shelbyville
National
Guard/Reserve Center Building Add/Al
12,000
12,000
Kentucky
Army National Guard
Frankfort
National
Guard/Reserve Center Building
15,000
15,000
Mississippi
Army National Guard
Brandon
National Guard
Vehicle Maintenance Shop
10,400
10,400
Nebraska
Army National Guard
North
Platte
National Guard
Vehicle Maintenance Shop
9,300
9,300
New Jersey
Army National Guard
Joint Base
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
National Guard
Readiness Center
15,000
15,000
Ohio
Army National Guard
Columbus
National Guard
Readiness Center
15,000
15,000
Oklahoma
Army National Guard
Ardmore
National Guard
Vehicle Maintenance Shop
0
9,800
Oregon
Army National Guard
Hermiston
Enlisted Barracks,
Transient Training
0
15,735
Army National Guard
Hermiston
Enlisted Barracks,
Transient Training
9,300
9,300
Puerto Rico
Army National Guard
Fort
Allen
National Guard
Readiness Center
37,000
37,000
South Carolina
Army National Guard
Joint Base
Charleston
National Guard
Readiness Center
15,000
15,000
Tennessee
Army National Guard
Mcminnville
National Guard
Readiness Center
11,200
11,200
Texas
Army National Guard
Fort
Worth
National Guard
Vehicle Maintenance Shop
7,800
7,800
Army National Guard
Fort
Worth
Aircraft
Maintenance Hangar Addition/Alt
6,000
6,000
Utah
Army National Guard
Nephi
National Guard
Readiness Center
12,000
12,000
Virgin Islands
Army National Guard
St.
Croix
Army Aviation
Support Facility (AASF)
28,000
28,000
Army National Guard
St.
Croix
CST Ready
Building
11,400
11,400
Wisconsin
Army National Guard
Appleton
National Guard
Readiness Center Add/Alt
11,600
11,600
Worldwide Unspecified
Army National Guard
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
32,744
32,744
Army National Guard
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
29,593
29,593
SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
321,437
371,272
AIR NATIONAL
GUARD
Alabama
Air National Guard
Montgomery
Regional Airport
Base Supply
Complex
0
12,000
Air National Guard
Montgomery
Regional Airport
F–35 Simulator
Facility
11,600
11,600
Guam
Air National Guard
Joint Region
Marianas
Space Control
Facility #5
20,000
20,000
Maryland
Air National Guard
Joint Base
Andrews
F–16 Mission
Training Center
9,400
9,400
North Dakota
Air National Guard
Hector
International Airport
Consolidated RPA
Operations Facility
0
17,500
Texas
Air National Guard
Joint Base San
Antonio
F–16 Mission
Training Center
10,800
10,800
Worldwide Unspecified
Air National Guard
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
9,000
9,000
Air National Guard
Various
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
3,414
3,414
SUBTOTAL AIR NATIONAL
GUARD
64,214
93,714
ARMY
RESERVE
Florida
Army Reserve
Gainesville
ECS
TEMF/Warehouse
36,000
36,000
Massachusetts
Army Reserve
Devens Reserve
Forces Training Area
Automated
Multipurpose Machine Gun Range
8,700
8,700
North Carolina
Army Reserve
Asheville
Army Reserve
Center/Land
24,000
24,000
Wisconsin
Army Reserve
Fort
McCoy
Transient Training
Barracks
0
2,500
Army Reserve
Fort
McCoy
Scout
Reconnaissance Range
14,600
14,600
Worldwide Unspecified
Army Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
3,819
3,819
Army Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning and
Design
1,218
1,218
SUBTOTAL ARMY
RESERVE
88,337
90,837
NAVY
RESERVE
Maryland
Navy Reserve
Reisterstown
Reserve Training
Center, Camp Fretterd, MD
39,500
39,500
Minnesota
Navy Reserve
NOSC
Minneapolis
Joint Reserve Intel
Center
0
12,800
Utah
Navy Reserve
Hill Air Force
Base
Naval Operational
Support Center
25,010
25,010
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
MCNR Planning &
Design
3,485
3,485
Navy Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
MCNR Minor
Construction
3,000
3,000
SUBTOTAL NAVY
RESERVE
70,995
83,795
AIR FORCE
RESERVE
Texas
Air Force Reserve
Fort
Worth
F–35 Squadron Ops /
Aircraft Maintenance Unit
0
25,000
Air Force Reserve
Fort
Worth
F–35A Simulator
Facility
14,200
14,200
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
3,270
3,270
Air Force Reserve
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Unspecified Minor
Construction
5,647
5,647
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE
RESERVE
23,117
48,117
NATO SECURITY
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Worldwide Unspecified
NATO Security Investment Program
NATO Security
Investment Program
NATO Security
Investment Program
173,030
173,030
SUBTOTAL NATO SECURITY
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
173,030
173,030
TOTAL MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
6,161,724
6,111,724
FAMILY
HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION,
ARMY
Italy
Construction, Army
Vicenza
Family Housing New
Construction
84,100
84,100
Kwajalein
Construction, Army
Kwajalein
Atoll
Family Housing
Replacement Construction
32,000
32,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Family Housing P
& D
3,300
3,300
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION,
ARMY
119,400
119,400
O&M,
ARMY
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Management
39,716
39,716
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Services
8,135
8,135
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Furnishings
18,004
18,004
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Miscellaneous
526
526
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Maintenance
97,789
70,789
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Utilities
41,183
41,183
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Leasing
123,841
123,841
O&M, Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Housing
Privitization Support
37,948
64,948
SUBTOTAL O&M,
ARMY
367,142
367,142
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND
MARINE CORPS
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
USMC DPRI/Guam
Planning and Design
2,726
2,726
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Construction
Improvements
37,043
37,043
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
3,128
3,128
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION,
NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
42,897
42,897
O&M, NAVY AND
MARINE CORPS
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Utilities
58,429
58,429
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Furnishings
17,977
17,977
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Management
51,006
51,006
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Miscellaneous
350
350
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Services
16,743
16,743
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Leasing
62,658
62,658
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Maintenance
85,630
85,630
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Housing
Privatization Support
53,700
78,700
SUBTOTAL O&M, NAVY
AND MARINE CORPS
346,493
371,493
CONSTRUCTION, AIR
FORCE
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Construction
Improvements
94,245
94,245
Construction, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
2,969
2,969
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION,
AIR FORCE
97,214
97,214
O&M, AIR
FORCE
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Housing
Privatization
23,175
48,175
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Utilities
43,173
43,173
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Management
64,732
64,732
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Services
7,968
7,968
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Furnishings
25,805
25,805
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Miscellaneous
2,184
2,184
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Leasing
9,318
9,318
O&M, Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Maintenance
140,666
140,666
SUBTOTAL O&M, AIR
FORCE
317,021
342,021
O&M,
DEFENSE-WIDE
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Utilities
4,100
4,100
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Furnishings
82
82
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Utilities
13
13
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Leasing
12,996
12,996
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Maintenance
32
32
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Furnishings
645
645
O&M, Defense-Wide
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Leasing
36,860
36,860
SUBTOTAL O&M,
DEFENSE-WIDE
54,728
54,728
IMPROVEMENT
FUND
Worldwide Unspecified
Improvement Fund
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Administrative
Expenses—FHIF
5,897
5,897
SUBTOTAL IMPROVEMENT
FUND
5,897
5,897
UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT
FUND
Worldwide Unspecified
Unaccmp HSG Improvement Fund
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Administrative
Expenses—UHIF
600
600
SUBTOTAL UNACCMP HSG
IMPROVEMENT FUND
600
600
TOTAL FAMILY
HOUSING
1,351,392
1,401,392
DEFENSE BASE
REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
ARMY
BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Army BRAC
Base Realignment
& Closure, Army
Base Realignment
and Closure
66,060
66,060
SUBTOTAL ARMY
BRAC
66,060
66,060
NAVY
BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy BRAC
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Base Realignment
& Closure
125,165
125,165
SUBTOTAL NAVY
BRAC
125,165
125,165
AIR FORCE
BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force BRAC
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Dod BRAC
Activities—Air Force
109,222
109,222
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE
BRAC
109,222
109,222
TOTAL DEFENSE BASE
REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
300,447
300,447
TOTAL MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC
7,813,563
7,813,563
4602.
Military construction for overseas contingency operations
SEC. 4602. MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Account
State or Country and
Installation
Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
Worldwide Unspecified
Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
EDI: Planning and
Design
11,903
11,903
Army
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
EDI: Minor
Construction
3,970
3,970
SUBTOTAL
ARMY
15,873
15,873
NAVY
Spain
Navy
Rota
EDI: Expeditionary
Maintenance Facility
27,470
27,470
Navy
Rota
EDI: EOD Boat
Shop
31,760
31,760
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
Planning &
Design
10,790
10,790
SUBTOTAL
NAVY
70,020
70,020
AIR
FORCE
Germany
Air Force
Ramstein
EDI: Rapid Airfield
Damage Repair Storage
36,345
36,345
Air Force
Spangdahlem
AB
EDI: Rapid Airfield
Damage Repair Storage
25,824
25,824
Romania
Air Force
Campia
Turzii
EDI: Dangerous
Cargo Pad
11,000
11,000
Air Force
Campia
Turzii
EDI: POL Increase
Capacity
32,000
32,000
Air Force
Campia
Turzii
EDI: ECAOS DABS-FEV
Storage Complex
68,000
68,000
Air Force
Campia
Turzii
EDI: Parking
Apron
19,500
19,500
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force
Unspecified
Worldwide Locations
EDI: Unspecified
Minor Military Construction
16,400
16,400
Air Force
Various
Worldwide Locations
EDI: Planning &
Design
54,800
54,800
SUBTOTAL AIR
FORCE
263,869
263,869
TOTAL MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
349,762
349,762
TOTAL MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC
349,762
349,762
XLVII
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
4701.
Department of Energy national security programs
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL
SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of
Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Discretionary Summary by Appropriation
Energy and Water Development and Related
Agencies
Appropriation Summary:
Energy Programs
Nuclear energy
137,800
137,800
Atomic Energy Defense Activities
National Nuclear Security
Administration:
Federal Salaries and
Expenses
454,000
454,000
Weapons activities
15,602,000
15,602,000
Defense nuclear
nonproliferation
2,031,000
2,031,000
Naval reactors
1,684,000
1,684,000
Total, National
Nuclear Security Administration
19,771,000
19,771,000
Defense environmental
cleanup
4,983,608
5,083,608
Other defense
activities
1,054,727
904,727
Total, Atomic Energy
Defense Activities
25,809,335
25,759,335
Total, Discretionary
Funding
25,947,135
25,897,135
Nuclear Energy
Idaho sitewide safeguards
and security
137,800
137,800
Total, Nuclear
Energy
137,800
137,800
National Nuclear Security Administration
Federal Salaries and Expenses
Program direction
454,000
454,000
Weapons Activities
Stockpile management
Stockpile major modernization
B61 Life extension
program
815,710
815,710
W76 Life extension
program
0
0
W76–2 Modification
program
0
0
W88 Alteration
program
256,922
256,922
W80–4 Life extension
program
1,000,314
1,000,314
W87–1 Modification Program
(formerly IW1)
541,000
541,000
W93
53,000
53,000
Total, Stockpile
major modernization
2,666,946
2,666,946
Stockpile
sustainment
998,357
998,357
Weapons dismantlement and
disposition
50,000
50,000
Production
operations
568,941
568,941
Total, Stockpile
management
4,284,244
4,284,244
Production modernization
Primary capability modernization
Plutonium modernization
Los Alamos plutonium modernization
Los Alamos Plutonium
Operations
610,599
610,599
21–D–512, Plutonium Pit
Production Project, LANL
226,000
226,000
Subtotal, Los Alamos
plutonium modernization
836,599
836,599
Savannah River plutonium modernization
Savannah River plutonium
operations
200,000
200,000
21–D–511, Savannah River
Plutonium Processing Facility, SRS
241,896
241,896
Subtotal, Savannah
River plutonium modernization
441,896
441,896
Enterprise Plutonium
Support
90,782
90,782
Total, Plutonium
Modernization
1,369,277
1,369,277
High Explosives &
Energetics
67,370
67,370
Total, Primary
capability modernization
1,436,647
1,436,647
Secondary Capability
Modernization
457,004
457,004
Tritium and Domestic
Uranium Enrichment
457,112
457,112
Non-Nuclear Capability
Modernization
107,137
107,137
Total, Production
modernization
2,457,900
2,457,900
Stockpile research, technology, and
engineering
Assessment science
773,111
773,111
Engineering and integrated
assessments
337,404
337,404
Intertial confinement
fusion
554,725
554,725
Advanced simulation and
computing
732,014
732,014
Weapon technology and
manufacturing maturation
297,965
297,965
Academic programs
86,912
86,912
Total, Stockpile
research, technology, and engineering
2,782,131
2,782,131
Infrastructure and operations
Operating
Operations of
facilities
1,014,000
1,014,000
Safety and Environmental
Operations
165,354
165,354
Maintenance and Repair of
Facilities
792,000
792,000
Recapitalization
Infrastructure and
Safety
670,000
670,000
Capabilities Based
Investments
149,117
149,117
Planning for Programmatic
Construction (Pre-CD–1)
84,787
84,787
Subtotal,
Recapitalization
903,904
903,904
Total,
Operating
2,875,258
2,875,258
I&O: Construction
Programmatic
21–D–510, HE Synthesis,
Formulation, and Production Facility, PX
31,000
31,000
18–D–690, Lithium
Processing Facility, Y–12
109,405
109,405
18–D–650, Tritium Finishing
Facility, SRS
27,000
27,000
18–D–620, Exascale
Computing Facility Modernization Project, LLNL
29,200
29,200
17–D–640, U1a Complex
Enhancements Project, NNSS
160,600
160,600
15–D–302, TA–55
Reinvestment Project—Phase 3, LANL
30,000
30,000
15–D–301, HE Science &
Engineering Facility, PX
43,000
43,000
07–D–220-04, Transuranic
Liquid Waste Facility, LANL
36,687
36,687
06–D–141, Uranium
Processing Facility, Y–12
750,000
750,000
04–D–125, Chemistry and
Metallurgy Research Replacement Project, LANL
169,427
169,427
Total,
Programmatic
1,386,319
1,386,319
Mission enabling
19–D–670, 138kV Power
Transmission System Replacement, NNSS
59,000
59,000
15–D–612, Emergency
Operations Center, LLNL
27,000
27,000
15–D–611, Emergency
Operations Center, SNL
36,000
36,000
Total, Mission
enabling
122,000
122,000
Total, I&O
construction
1,508,319
1,508,319
Total, Infrastructure
and operations
4,383,577
4,383,577
Secure transportation asset
Operations and
equipment
266,390
266,390
Program direction
123,684
123,684
Total, Secure
transportation asset
390,074
390,074
Defense nuclear security
Operations and
maintenance
815,895
815,895
Security improvements
program
0
0
Construction:
17–D–710, West end
protected area reduction project, Y–12
11,000
11,000
Subtotal,
construction
11,000
11,000
Total, Defense
nuclear security
826,895
826,895
Information
technology and cybersecurity
375,511
375,511
Legacy contractor
pensions
101,668
101,668
Total, Weapons
activities
16,056,000
16,056,000
Adjustments
Use of prior year
balances
0
0
Total,
Adjustments
0
0
Total, Weapons
Activities
15,602,000
15,602,000
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
Programs
Material management and minimization
Conversion (formerly HEU
Reactor Conversion)
170,000
170,000
Nuclear material
removal
40,000
40,000
Material
disposition
190,711
190,711
Laboratory and partnership
support
0
0
Total, Material
management & minimization
400,711
400,711
Global material
security
0
International nuclear
security
66,391
66,391
Domestic radiological
security
101,000
101,000
International radiological
security
73,340
73,340
Nuclear smuggling detection
and deterrence
159,749
159,749
Total, Global
material security
400,480
400,480
Nonproliferation and arms
control
138,708
138,708
National Technical Nuclear
Forensics R&D
40,000
40,000
Defense nuclear nonproliferation
R&D
Proliferation
detection
235,220
235,220
Nonproliferation
Stewardship program
59,900
59,900
Nuclear detonation
detection
236,531
236,531
Nonproliferation fuels
development
0
0
Total, Defense
Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D
531,651
531,651
Nonproliferation construction
U. S. Construction:
18–D–150 Surplus Plutonium
Disposition Project
148,589
148,589
99–D–143, Mixed Oxide (MOX)
Fuel Fabrication Facility, SRS
0
0
Total, U. S.
Construction:
148,589
148,589
Total,
Nonproliferation construction
148,589
148,589
Total, Defense
Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs
1,660,139
1,660,139
Legacy contractor
pensions
14,348
14,348
Nuclear counterterrorism and incident response
program
Emergency
Operations
36,000
36,000
Counterterrorism and
Counterproliferation
341,513
341,513
Total, Nuclear
counterterrorism and incident response
program
377,513
377,513
Subtotal, Defense
Nuclear Nonproliferation
2,052,000
2,052,000
Adjustments
Use of prior year
balances
–21,000
–21,000
Total,
Adjustments
–21,000
–21,000
Total, Defense
Nuclear Nonproliferation
2,031,000
2,031,000
Naval Reactors
Naval reactors
development
590,306
590,306
Columbia-Class reactor
systems development
64,700
64,700
S8G Prototype
refueling
135,000
135,000
Naval reactors operations
and infrastructure
506,294
506,294
Program direction
53,700
53,700
Construction:
21–D–530 KL Steam and
Condensate Upgrades
4,000
4,000
14–D–901, Spent fuel
handling recapitalization project, NRF
330,000
330,000
Total,
Construction
334,000
334,000
Transfer to NE—Advanced
Test Reactor (non-add)
0
0
Total, Naval
Reactors
1,684,000
1,684,000
TOTAL, National
Nuclear Security Administration
19,771,000
19,771,000
Defense Environmental Cleanup
Closure sites
administration
4,987
4,987
Richland:
River corridor and other
cleanup operations
54,949
54,949
Central plateau
remediation
498,335
498,335
Richland community and
regulatory support
2,500
2,500
18–D–404 Modification of
Waste Encapsulation and Storage Facility
0
0
Total,
Richland
555,784
555,784
Office of River Protection:
Waste Treatment
Immobilization Plant Commissioning
50,000
50,000
Rad liquid tank waste
stabilization and disposition
597,757
597,757
Construction:
18–D–16 Waste treatment and
immobilization plant—LBL/Direct feed LAW
609,924
609,924
15–D–409 Low activity waste
pretreatment system, ORP
0
0
01–D–16 D, High-level waste
facility
0
0
01–D–16 E, Pretreatment
Facility
0
0
Total,
Construction
609,924
609,924
ORP Low-level waste offsite
disposal
0
0
Total, Office of
River Protection
1,257,681
1,257,681
Idaho National Laboratory:
Idaho cleanup and waste
disposition
257,554
257,554
ID Excess facilities
R&D
0
0
Idaho community and
regulatory support
2,400
2,400
Total, Idaho National
Laboratory
259,954
259,954
NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory
1,764
1,764
LLNL Excess facilities
R&D
0
0
Separations Process
Research Unit
15,000
15,000
Nevada Test Site
60,737
60,737
Sandia National
Laboratories
4,860
4,860
Los Alamos National
Laboratory
120,000
220,000
Execute achievable scope of
work
(100,000)
Total, NNSA sites and
Nevada off-sites
202,361
302,361
Oak Ridge Reservation:
OR Nuclear facility D &
D
109,077
109,077
U233 Disposition
Program
45,000
45,000
OR cleanup and waste
disposition
58,000
58,000
Construction:
17–D–401 On-site waste
disposal facility
22,380
22,380
14–D–403 Outfall 200
Mercury Treatment Facility
20,500
20,500
Subtotal,
Construction:
42,880
42,880
OR community &
regulatory support
4,930
4,930
OR technology development
and deployment
3,000
3,000
Total, Oak Ridge
Reservation
262,887
262,887
Savannah River Site:
Savannah River risk
management operations
455,122
455,122
SR community and regulatory
support
4,989
4,989
Radioactive liquid tank waste:
Construction:
20-D–402 Advanced
Manufacturing Collaborative Facility (AMC)
25,000
25,000
20-D–401 Saltstone Disposal
Unit #10, 11, 12
0
0
19–D–701 SR Security system
replacement
0
0
18–D–402,Saltstone disposal
unit #8/9
65,500
65,500
17–D–402—Saltstone Disposal
Unit #7
10,716
10,716
05–D–405 Salt waste
processing facility, SRS
0
0
Total, Construction,
Radioactive liquid tank waste
101,216
101,216
Radioactive liquid tank
waste stabilization
970,332
970,332
Total, Savannah River
Site
1,531,659
1,531,659
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
Waste Isolation Pilot
Plant
323,260
323,260
Construction:
15–D–411 Safety significant
confinement ventilation system, WIPP
0
0
15–D–412 Exhaust shaft,
WIPP
50,000
50,000
21–D–401 Hoisting
Capability Project
10,000
10,000
Total,
Construction
60,000
60,000
Total, Waste
Isolation Pilot Plant
383,260
383,260
Program direction—Defense
Environment Cleanup
275,285
275,285
Program support—Defense
Environment Cleanup
12,979
12,979
Safeguards and
Security—Defense Environment Cleanup
320,771
320,771
Technology development and
deployment
25,000
25,000
Use of prior year
balances
0
0
Subtotal, Defense
environmental cleanup
5,092,608
5,192,608
Rescission:
Rescission of prior year
balances
–109,000
–109,000
TOTAL, Defense
Environmental Cleanup
4,983,608
5,083,608
Other Defense Activities
Environment, health, safety and
security
Environment, health, safety
and security mission support
134,320
134,320
Program direction
75,368
75,368
Total, Environment,
health, safety and security
209,688
209,688
Independent enterprise assessments
Enterprise
assessments
26,949
26,949
Program direction—Office of
Enterprise Assessments
54,635
54,635
Total, Office of
Enterprise Assessments
81,584
81,584
Specialized security
activities
258,411
258,411
Office of Legacy Management
Legacy management
activities—defense
293,873
143,873
Maintain current program
administration
(–150,000)
Program direction
23,120
23,120
Total, Office of
Legacy Management
316,993
166,993
Defense related
administrative support
183,789
183,789
Office of hearings and
appeals
4,262
4,262
Subtotal, Other
defense activities
1,054,727
904,727
Use of prior year
balances
0
0
Total, Other Defense
Activities
1,054,727
904,727
E
Additional Provisions
LI
Procurement
B
Army Programs
5111.
Report on CH–47F Chinook Block–II upgrade
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Army, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following elements:
(1)
An analysis of the warfighting capability currently delivered by the Block I and Block II configurations of H–47 Chinook helicopters.
(2)
An analysis of the feasibility and advisability of delaying or terminating the CH–47F Chinook Block-II upgrade.
(3)
A plan to ensure that warfighter capability is not negatively affected by the delay or termination of the CH–47F Chinook Block-II upgrade.
(b)
Form
The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
C
Navy Programs
5121.
Limitation on alteration of Navy fleet mix
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States shipbuilding and supporting vendor base constitute a national security imperative that is unique and must be protected;
(2)
a healthy and efficient industrial base continues to be a fundamental driver for achieving and sustaining a successful shipbuilding procurement strategy;
(3)
without consistent and continuous commitment to steady and predictable acquisition profiles, the industrial base will struggle and some elements may not survive; and
(4)
proposed reductions in the future-years defense program to the DDG–51 Destroyer procurement profile without a clear transition to procurement of the next Large Surface Combatant would adversely affect the shipbuilding industrial base and long-term strategic objectives of the Navy.
(b)
Limitation
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Navy may not deviate from the 2016 Navy Force Structure Assessment to implement the results of a new force structure assessment or new annual long-range plan for construction of naval vessels that would reduce the requirement for Large Surface Combatants to fewer than 104 such vessels until the date on which the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional defense committees the certification under paragraph (2) and the report under subsection (c).
(2)
Certification
The certification referred to in paragraph (1) is a certification, in writing, that each of the following conditions have been satisfied:
(A)
The large surface combatant shipbuilding industrial base and supporting vendor base would not significantly deteriorate due to a reduced procurement profile.
(B)
The Navy can mitigate the reduction in anti-air and ballistic missile defense capabilities due to having a reduced number of DDG–51 Destroyers with the advanced AN/SPY–6 radar in the next three decades.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
(1)
a description of likely detrimental impacts to the large surface combatant industrial base and the Navy’s plan to mitigate any such impacts if the fiscal year 2021 future-years defense program were implemented as proposed;
(2)
a review of the benefits to the Navy fleet of the new AN/SPY–6 radar to be deployed aboard Flight III variant DDG–51 Destroyers, which are currently under construction, as well as an analysis of impacts to the fleet’s warfighting capabilities, should the number of such destroyers be reduced; and
(3)
a plan to fully implement section 131 of the National Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), including subsystem prototyping efforts and funding by fiscal year.
LII
Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
B
Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations
5211.
Importance of historically Black colleges and universities and minority-serving institutions
(a)
Increase
Funds authorized to be appropriated in Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Defense-wide, PE 0601228D8Z, section 4201, for Basic Research, Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Institutions, Line 006, are hereby increased by $14,025,000.
(b)
Offset
Funding in section 4101 for Other Procurement, Army, for Automated Data Processing Equipment, Line 112, is hereby reduced by $14,025,000.
C
Sustainable Chemistry
5221.
National coordinating entity for sustainable chemistry
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this title, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall convene an interagency entity (referred to in this title as the
Entity
) under the National Science and Technology Council with the responsibility to coordinate Federal programs and activities in support of sustainable chemistry, including those described in sections __3 and __4.
(b)
Coordination with existing groups
In convening the Entity, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall consider overlap and possible coordination with existing committees, subcommittees, or other groups of the National Science and Technology Council, such as—
(1)
the Committee on Environment;
(2)
the Committee on Technology;
(3)
the Committee on Science; or
(4)
related groups or subcommittees.
(c)
Co-chairs
The Entity shall be co-chaired by the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and a representative from the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the National Science Foundation, or the Department of Energy, as selected by the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(d)
Agency participation
The Entity shall include representatives, including subject matter experts, from the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, and other related Federal agencies, as appropriate.
(e)
Termination
The Entity shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this title.
5222.
Strategic plan for sustainable chemistry
(a)
Strategic plan
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this title, the Entity shall—
(1)
consult with relevant stakeholders, including representatives from industry, academia, national labs, the Federal Government, and international entities, to develop and update, as needed, a consensus definition of
sustainable chemistry
to guide the activities under this title;
(2)
develop a working framework of attributes characterizing and metrics for assessing sustainable chemistry, as described in subsection (b);
(3)
assess the state of sustainable chemistry in the United States as a key benchmark from which progress under the activities described in this title can be measured, including assessing key sectors of the United States economy, key technology platforms, commercial priorities, and barriers to innovation;
(4)
coordinate and support Federal research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, commercialization, education, and training efforts in sustainable chemistry, including budget coordination and support for public-private partnerships, as appropriate;
(5)
identify any Federal regulatory barriers to, and opportunities for, Federal agencies facilitating the development of incentives for development, consideration and use of sustainable chemistry processes and products;
(6)
identify major scientific challenges, roadblocks, or hurdles to transformational progress in improving the sustainability of the chemical sciences; and
(7)
review, identify, and make effort to eliminate duplicative Federal funding and duplicative Federal research in sustainable chemistry.
(b)
Characterizing and assessing sustainable chemistry
The Entity shall develop a working framework of attributes characterizing and metrics for assessing sustainable chemistry for the purposes of carrying out the title. In developing this framework, the Entity shall—
(1)
seek advice and input from stakeholders as described in subsection (c);
(2)
consider existing definitions of, or frameworks characterizing and metrics for assessing, sustainable chemistry already in use at Federal agencies;
(3)
consider existing definitions of, or frameworks characterizing and metrics for assessing, sustainable chemistry already in use by international organizations of which the United States is a member, such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; and
(4)
consider any other appropriate existing definitions of, or frameworks characterizing and metrics for assessing, sustainable chemistry.
(c)
Consultation
In carrying out the duties described in subsections (a) and (b), the Entity shall consult with stakeholders qualified to provide advice and information to guide Federal activities related to sustainable chemistry through workshops, requests for information, or other mechanisms as necessary. The stakeholders shall include representatives from—
(1)
business and industry (including trade associations and small- and medium-sized enterprises from across the value chain);
(2)
the scientific community (including the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, scientific professional societies, national labs, and academia);
(3)
the defense community;
(4)
State, tribal, and local governments, including nonregulatory State or regional sustainable chemistry programs, as appropriate;
(5)
nongovernmental organizations; and
(6)
other appropriate organizations.
(d)
Report to congress
(1)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Entity shall submit a report to the Committee on Environment and Public Works, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives. In addition to the elements described in subsections (a) and (b), the report shall include—
(A)
a summary of federally funded, sustainable chemistry research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, commercialization, education, and training activities;
(B)
a summary of the financial resources allocated to sustainable chemistry initiatives by each participating agency;
(C)
an assessment of the current state of sustainable chemistry in the United States, including the role that Federal agencies are playing in supporting it;
(D)
an analysis of the progress made toward achieving the goals and priorities of this Act, and recommendations for future program activities;
(E)
an evaluation of steps taken and future strategies to avoid duplication of efforts, streamline interagency coordination, facilitate information sharing, and spread best practices among participating agencies; and
(F)
an evaluation of duplicative Federal funding and duplicative Federal research in sustainable chemistry, efforts undertaken by the Entity to eliminate duplicative funding and research, and recommendations on how to achieve these goals.
(2)
Submission to GAO
The Entity shall also submit the report described in paragraph (1) to the Comptroller General of the United States for consideration in future Congressional inquiries.
(3)
Additional reports
The Entity shall submit a report to Congress and the Comptroller General of the United States that incorporates the information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (D), (E), and (F) of paragraph (1) every 3 years, commencing after the initial report is submitted until the Entity terminates.
5223.
Agency activities in support of sustainable chemistry
(a)
In general
The agencies participating in the Entity shall carry out activities in support of sustainable chemistry, as appropriate to the specific mission and programs of each agency.
(b)
Activities
The activities described in subsection (a) shall—
(1)
incorporate sustainable chemistry into existing research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, commercialization, education, and training programs, that the agency determines to be relevant, including consideration of—
(A)
merit-based competitive grants to individual investigators and teams of investigators, including, to the extent practicable, early career investigators for research and development;
(B)
grants to fund collaborative research and development partnerships among universities, industry, and nonprofit organizations;
(C)
coordination of sustainable chemistry research, development, demonstration, and technology transfer conducted at Federal laboratories and agencies;
(D)
incentive prize competitions and challenges in coordination with such existing Federal agency programs; and
(E)
grants, loans, and loan guarantees to aid in the technology transfer and commercialization of sustainable chemicals, materials, processes, and products;
(2)
collect and disseminate information on sustainable chemistry research, development, technology transfer, and commercialization, including information on accomplishments and best practices;
(3)
expand the education and training of students at appropriate levels of education, professional scientists and engineers, and other professionals involved in all aspects of sustainable chemistry and engineering appropriate to that level of education and training, including through—
(A)
partnerships with industry as described in section __4;
(B)
support for the integration of sustainable chemistry principles into chemistry and chemical engineering curriculum and research training, as appropriate to that level of education and training; and
(C)
support for integration of sustainable chemistry principles into existing or new professional development opportunities for professionals including teachers, faculty, and individuals involved in laboratory research (product development, materials specification and testing, life cycle analysis, and management);
(4)
as relevant to an agency’s programs, examine methods by which the Federal agencies, in collaboration and consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, may facilitate the development or recognition of validated, standardized tools for performing sustainability assessments of chemistry processes or products;
(5)
through programs identified by an agency, support (including through technical assistance, participation, financial support, communications tools, awards, or other forms of support) outreach and dissemination of sustainable chemistry advances such as non-Federal symposia, forums, conferences, and publications in collaboration with, as appropriate, industry, academia, scientific and professional societies, and other relevant groups;
(6)
provide for public input and outreach to be integrated into the activities described in this section by the convening of public discussions, through mechanisms such as public meetings, consensus conferences, and educational events, as appropriate;
(7)
within each agency, develop or adapt metrics to track the outputs and outcomes of the programs supported by that agency; and
(8)
incentivize or recognize actions that advance sustainable chemistry products, processes, or initiatives, including through the establishment of a nationally recognized awards program through the Environmental Protection Agency to identify, publicize, and celebrate innovations in sustainable chemistry and chemical technologies.
(c)
Limitations
Financial support provided under this section shall—
(1)
be available only for pre-competitive activities; and
(2)
not be used to promote the sale of a specific product, process, or technology, or to disparage a specific product, process, or technology.
5224.
Partnerships in sustainable chemistry
(a)
In general
The agencies participating in the Entity may facilitate and support, through financial, technical, or other assistance, the creation of partnerships between institutions of higher education, nongovernmental organizations, consortia, or companies across the value chain in the chemical industry, including small- and medium-sized enterprises, to—
(1)
create collaborative sustainable chemistry research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, and commercialization programs; and
(2)
train students and retrain professional scientists, engineers, and others involved in materials specification on the use of sustainable chemistry concepts and strategies by methods, including—
(A)
developing or recognizing curricular materials and courses for undergraduate and graduate levels and for the professional development of scientists, engineers, and others involved in materials specification; and
(B)
publicizing the availability of professional development courses in sustainable chemistry and recruiting professionals to pursue such courses.
(b)
Private sector participation
To be eligible for support under this section, a partnership in sustainable chemistry shall include at least one private sector organization.
(c)
Selection of partnerships
In selecting partnerships for support under this section, the agencies participating in the Entity shall also consider the extent to which the applicants are willing and able to demonstrate evidence of support for, and commitment to, the goals outlined in the strategic plan and report described in section __2.
(d)
Prohibited use of funds
Financial support provided under this section may not be used—
(1)
to support or expand a regulatory chemical management program at an implementing agency under a State law;
(2)
to construct or renovate a building or structure; or
(3)
to promote the sale of a specific product, process, or technology, or to disparage a specific product, process, or technology.
5225.
Prioritization
In carrying out this Act, the Entity shall focus its support for sustainable chemistry activities on those that achieve, to the highest extent practicable, the goals outlined in the title.
5226.
Rule of construction
Nothing in this title shall be construed to alter or amend any State law or action with regard to sustainable chemistry, as defined by the State.
5227.
Major multi-user research facility project
Section 110 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (
42 U.S.C. 1862s–2
) is amended by striking (g)(2) and inserting the following:
(2)
Major multi-user research facility project
The term
major multi-user research facility project
means a science and engineering facility project that exceeds $100,000,000 in total construction, acquisition, or upgrade costs to the Foundation.
.
D
Cyber workforce matters
5231.
Improving National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education
(a)
Program improvements generally
Subsection (a) of section 401 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7451
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (5), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (10); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
(6)
supporting efforts to identify cybersecurity workforce skill gaps in public and private sectors;
(7)
facilitating Federal programs to advance cybersecurity education, training, and workforce;
(8)
in coordination with the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security, considering any specific needs of the cybersecurity workforce of critical infrastructure, to include cyber physical systems and control systems;
(9)
advising the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, as needed in, developing metrics to measure the effectiveness and effect of programs and initiatives to advance the cybersecurity workforce; and
.
(b)
Strategic plan
Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
(1)
by striking
The Director
and inserting the following:
(1)
In general
The Director
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Requirement
The strategic plan developed and implemented under paragraph (1) shall include an indication of how the Director will carry out this section.
.
(c)
Cybersecurity career pathways
(1)
Identification of multiple cybersecurity career pathways
In carrying out subsection (a) of such section and not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, use a consultative process with other Federal agencies, academia, and industry to identify multiple career pathways for cybersecurity work roles that can be used in the private and public sectors.
(2)
Requirements
The Director shall ensure that the multiple cybersecurity career pathways identified under paragraph (1) indicate the knowledge, skills, and abilities, including relevant education, training, apprenticeships, certifications, and other experiences, that—
(A)
align with employers’ cybersecurity skill needs, including proficiency level requirements, for its workforce; and
(B)
prepare an individual to be successful in entering or advancing in a cybersecurity career.
(3)
Exchange program
Consistent with requirements under
chapter 37
of title 5, United States Code, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, may establish a voluntary program for the exchange of employees engaged in one of the cybersecurity work roles identified in the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 800–181), or successor framework, between the National Institute of Standards and Technology and private sector institutions, including a nonpublic or commercial business, a research institution, or an institution of higher education, as the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology considers feasible.
(d)
Proficiency To perform cybersecurity tasks
Not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security—
(1)
in carrying out subsection (a) of such section, assess the scope and sufficiency of efforts to measure a learner's capability to perform specific tasks found in the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 800–181) at all proficiency levels; and
(2)
submit to Congress a report—
(A)
on the findings of the Director with respect to the assessment carried out under paragraph (1); and
(B)
with recommendations for effective methods for measuring the cybersecurity proficiency of learners.
(e)
Cybersecurity metrics
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Cybersecurity metrics
In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may seek input from the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in coordination with the Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Personnel Management, and such agencies as the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology considers relevant, shall develop repeatable measures and reliable metrics for measuring and evaluating Federally funded cybersecurity workforce programs and initiatives based on the outcomes of such programs and initiatives.
.
(f)
Regional alliances and multistakeholder partnerships
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Regional alliances and multistakeholder partnerships
(1)
In general
Pursuant to section 2(b)(4) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 272(b)(4)
), the Director shall establish cooperative agreements between the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) of the Institute and regional alliances or partnerships for cybersecurity education and workforce.
(2)
Agreements
The cooperative agreements established under paragraph (1) shall advance the goals of the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 800–181), or successor framework, by facilitating local and regional partnerships—
(A)
to identify the workforce needs of the local economy and classify such workforce in accordance with such framework;
(B)
to identify the education, training, apprenticeship, and other opportunities available in the local economy; and
(C)
to support opportunities to meet the needs of the local economy.
(3)
Financial assistance
(A)
Financial assistance authorized
The Director may award financial assistance to a regional alliance or partnership with whom the Director enters into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) in order to assist the regional alliance or partnership in carrying out the term of the cooperative agreement.
(B)
Amount of assistance
The aggregate amount of financial assistance awarded under subparagraph (A) per cooperative agreement shall not exceed $200,000.
(C)
Matching requirement
The Director may not award financial assistance to a regional alliance or partnership under subparagraph (A) unless the regional alliance or partnership agrees that, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the regional alliance or partnership in carrying out the cooperative agreement for which the assistance was awarded, the regional alliance or partnership will make available (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 50 percent of Federal funds provided under the award.
(4)
Application
(A)
In general
A regional alliance or partnership seeking to enter into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) and receive financial assistance under paragraph (3) shall submit to the Director an application therefore at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
(B)
Requirements
Each application submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
(I)
A plan to establish (or identification of, if it already exists) a multistakeholder workforce partnership that includes—
(aa)
at least one institution of higher education or nonprofit training organization; and
(bb)
at least one local employer or owner or operator of critical infrastructure.
(II)
Participation from Federal Cyber Scholarships for Service organizations, advanced technological education programs, elementary and secondary schools, training and certification providers, State and local governments, economic development organizations, or other community organizations is encouraged.
(ii)
A description of how the workforce partnership would identify the workforce needs of the local economy.
(iii)
A description of how the multistakeholder workforce partnership would leverage the programs and objectives of the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education, such as the Cybersecurity Workforce Framework and the strategic plan of such initiative.
(iv)
A description of how employers in the community will be recruited to support internships, externships, apprenticeships, or cooperative education programs in conjunction with providers of education and training. Inclusion of programs that seek to include women, minorities, or veterans is encouraged.
(v)
A definition of the metrics that will be used to measure the success of the efforts of the regional alliance or partnership under the agreement.
(C)
Priority consideration
In awarding financial assistance under paragraph (3)(A), the Director shall give priority consideration to a regional alliance or partnership that includes an institution of higher education which receives an award under the Federal Cyber Scholarship for Service program located in the State or region of the regional alliance or partnership.
(5)
Audits
Each cooperative agreement for which financial assistance is awarded under paragraph (3) shall be subject to audit requirements under part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards), or successor regulation.
(6)
Reports
(A)
In general
Upon completion of a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), the regional alliance or partnership that participated in the agreement shall submit to the Director a report on the activities of the regional alliance or partnership under the agreement, which may include training and education outcomes.
(B)
Contents
Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) by a regional alliance or partnership shall include the following:
(i)
An assessment of efforts made by the regional alliance or partnership to carry out paragraph (2).
(ii)
The metrics used by the regional alliance or partnership to measure the success of the efforts of the regional alliance or partnership under the cooperative agreement.
.
(g)
Transfer of section
(1)
Transfer
Such section is transferred to the end of title III of such Act and redesignated as section 303.
(2)
Repeal
Title IV of such Act is repealed.
(3)
Clerical
The table of contents in section 1(b) of such Act is amended—
(A)
by striking the items relating to title IV and section 401; and
(B)
by inserting after the item relating to section 302 the following:
Sec. 303. National cybersecurity awareness and education program.
.
(4)
Conforming amendments
(A)
Section 302(3) of the Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Assessment Act of 2015 (
Public Law 114–113
) is amended by striking
under section 401 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7451
)
and inserting
under section 303 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–274
)
.
(B)
Section 2(c)(3) of the NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Act (
Public Law 115–236
) is amended by striking
under section 401 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7451
)
and inserting
under section 303 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–274
)
.
(C)
Section 302(f) of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7442(f)
) is amended by striking
under section 401
and inserting
under section 303
.
5232.
Development of standards and guidelines for improving cybersecurity workforce of Federal agencies
(a)
In general
Section 20(a) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 278g–3(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (3), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
identify and develop standards and guidelines for improving the cybersecurity workforce for an agency as part of the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 800–181), or successor framework.
.
(b)
Publication of standards and guidelines on cybersecurity awareness
Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act and pursuant to section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (
15 U.S.C. 278g–3
), the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall publish standards and guidelines for improving cybersecurity awareness of employees and contractors of Federal agencies.
5233.
Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service program
Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7442
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (2), by striking
information technology
and inserting
information technology and cybersecurity
;
(B)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
prioritize the placement of scholarship recipients fulfilling the post-award employment obligation under this section to ensure that—
(A)
not less than 70 percent of such recipients are placed in an executive agency (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code);
(B)
not more than 10 percent of such recipients are placed as educators in the field of cybersecurity at qualified institutions of higher education that provide scholarships under this section; and
(C)
not more than 20 percent of such recipients are placed in positions described in paragraphs (2) through (5) of subsection (d); and
; and
(C)
in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
, including by seeking to provide awards in coordination with other relevant agencies for summer cybersecurity camp or other experiences, including teacher training, in each of the 50 States,
after
cybersecurity education
;
(2)
in subsection (d)—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by striking
or
at the end;
(B)
in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; or
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(6)
as provided by subsection (b)(3)(B), a qualified institution of higher education.
; and
(3)
in subsection (m)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
cyber
and inserting
cybersecurity
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
cyber
and inserting
cybersecurity
.
5234.
Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service program
Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7442
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (f)—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon; and
(B)
by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
(5)
enter into an agreement accepting and acknowledging the post award employment obligations, pursuant to section (d);
(6)
accept and acknowledge the conditions of support under section (g); and
(7)
accept all terms and conditions of a scholarship under this section.
;
(2)
in subsection (g)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
the Office of Personnel Management, in coordination with the National Science Foundation, and
before
the qualified institution
;
(B)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
in subparagraph (D), by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon; and
(ii)
by striking subparagraph (E) and inserting the following:
(E)
fails to maintain or fulfill any of the post-graduation or post-award obligations or requirements of the individual; or
(F)
fails to fulfill the requirements of paragraph (1).
;
(3)
in subsection (h)(2), by inserting
and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
after
Foundation
;
(4)
in subsection (k)(1)(A), by striking
and the Director
and all that follows and inserting
, the Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management of the amounts owed; and
; and
(5)
in subsection (m)(2), by striking
once every 3 years
and all that follows and inserting
once every 2 years, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives a report, including—
(A)
the results of the evaluation under paragraph (1);
(B)
the disparity in any reporting between scholarship recipients and their respective institutions of higher education; and
(C)
any recent statistics regarding the size, composition, and educational requirements of the Federal cyber workforce.
5235.
Cybersecurity in programs of the National Science Foundation
(a)
Computer science and cybersecurity education research
Section 310 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (
42 U.S.C. 1862s–7
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
and cybersecurity
after
computer science
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2)—
(i)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(ii)
in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following:
(E)
tools and models for the integration of cybersecurity and other interdisciplinary efforts into computer science education and computational thinking at secondary and postsecondary levels of education.
; and
(2)
in subsection (c), by inserting
, cybersecurity,
after
computing
.
(b)
Scientific and technical education
Section 3(j)(9) of the Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (
42 U.S.C. 1862i(j)(9)
) is amended by inserting
and cybersecurity
after
computer science
.
(c)
Low-Income scholarship program
Section 414(d) of the American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 (
42 U.S.C. 1869c
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or computer science
and inserting
computer science, or cybersecurity
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)(A)(iii), by inserting
cybersecurity,
after
computer science,
.
(d)
Scholarships and graduate fellowships
The Director of the National Science Foundation shall ensure that students pursuing master's degrees and doctoral degrees in fields relating to cybersecurity are considered as applicants for scholarships and graduate fellowships under the Graduate Research Fellowship Program under section 10 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (
42 U.S.C. 1869
).
(e)
Presidential awards for teaching excellence
The Director of the National Science Foundation shall ensure that educators and mentors in fields relating to cybersecurity can be considered for—
(1)
Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching made under section 117 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (
42 U.S.C. 1881b
); and
(2)
Presidential Awards for Excellence in STEM Mentoring administered under section 307 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (
42 U.S.C. 1862s–6
).
5236.
Cybersecurity in STEM programs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
In carrying out any STEM education program of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (referred to in this section as
NASA
), including a program of the Office of STEM Engagement, the Administrator of NASA shall, to the maximum extent practicable, encourage the inclusion of cybersecurity education opportunities in such program.
5237.
Cybersecurity in Department of Transportation programs
(a)
University transportation centers program
Section 5505 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)(2)(C), by inserting
in the matters described in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 6503(c)(1)
after
transportation leaders
; and
(2)
in subsection (c)(3)(E)—
(A)
by inserting
, including the cybersecurity implications of technologies relating to connected vehicles, connected infrastructure, and autonomous vehicles
after
autonomous vehicles
; and
(B)
by striking
The Secretary
and inserting the following:
“(i)
In general
A regional university transportation center receiving a grant under this paragraph shall carry out research focusing on 1 or more of the matters described in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 6503(c)(1).
“(ii)
Focused objectives
The Secretary”.
(b)
Transportation research and development
5
-Year strategic plan
Section 6503(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (F), by inserting
and
after the semicolon at the end; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(G)
reducing transportation cybersecurity risks;
.
5238.
National Cybersecurity Challenges
(a)
In general
Title II of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (
15 U.S.C. 7431
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
205.
National Cybersecurity Challenges
(a)
Establishment of national cybersecurity challenges
(1)
In general
To achieve high-priority breakthroughs in cybersecurity by 2028, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish the following national cybersecurity challenges:
(A)
Economics of a cyber attack
Building more resilient systems that measurably and exponentially raise adversary costs of carrying out common cyber attacks.
(B)
Cyber training
(i)
Empowering the people of the United States with an appropriate and measurably sufficient level of digital literacy to make safe and secure decisions online.
(ii)
Developing a cybersecurity workforce with measurable skills to protect and maintain information systems.
(C)
Emerging technology
Advancing cybersecurity efforts in response to emerging technology, such as artificial intelligence, quantum science, and next generation communications technologies.
(D)
Reimagining digital identity
Maintaining a high sense of usability while improving the security and safety of online activity of individuals in the United States.
(E)
Federal agency resilience
Reducing cybersecurity risks to Federal networks and systems, and improving the response of Federal agencies to cybersecurity incidents on such networks and systems.
(2)
Coordination
In establishing the challenges under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Homeland Security on the challenges under subparagraphs (B) and (E) of such paragraph.
(b)
Pursuit of national cybersecurity challenges
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, shall commence efforts to pursue the national cybersecurity challenges established under subsection (a).
(2)
Competitions
The efforts required by paragraph (1) shall include carrying out programs to award prizes, including cash and noncash prizes, competitively pursuant to the authorities and processes established under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3719
) or any other applicable provision of law.
(3)
Additional authorities
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary may enter into and perform such other transactions as the Secretary considers necessary and on such terms as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(4)
Coordination
In pursuing national cybersecurity challenges under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate with the following:
(A)
The Director of the National Science Foundation.
(B)
The Secretary of Homeland Security.
(C)
The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
(D)
The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(E)
The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(F)
The Administrator of the General Services Administration.
(G)
The Federal Trade Commission.
(H)
The heads of such other Federal agencies as the Secretary of Commerce considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
(5)
Solicitation of acceptance of funds
(A)
In general
Pursuant to section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (
15 U.S.C. 3719
), the Secretary shall request and accept funds from other Federal agencies, State, United States territory, local, or tribal government agencies, private sector for-profit entities, and nonprofit entities to support efforts to pursue a national cybersecurity challenge under this section.
(B)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be construed to require any person or entity to provide funds or otherwise participate in an effort or competition under this section.
(c)
Recommendations
(1)
In general
In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Commerce shall designate an advisory council to seek recommendations.
(2)
Elements
The recommendations required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
A scope for efforts carried out under subsection (b).
(B)
Metrics to assess submissions for prizes under competitions carried out under subsection (b) as the submissions pertain to the national cybersecurity challenges established under subsection (a).
(3)
No additional compensation
The Secretary may not provide any additional compensation, except for travel expenses, to a member of the advisory council designated under paragraph (1) for participation in the advisory council.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Section 201(a)(1) of such Act is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (J), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (K) as subparagraph (L); and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
(K)
implementation of section 205 through research and development on the topics identified under subsection (a) of such section; and
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 204 the following:
Sec. 205. National Cybersecurity Challenges.
.
5239.
Internet of Things
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(3)
Steering committee
The term
steering committee
means the steering committee established under subsection (b)(5)(A).
(4)
Working group
The term
working group
means the working group convened under subsection (b)(1).
(b)
Federal working group
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall convene a working group of Federal stakeholders for the purpose of providing recommendations and a report to Congress relating to the aspects of the Internet of Things described in paragraph (2).
(2)
Duties
The working group shall—
(A)
identify any Federal regulations, statutes, grant practices, budgetary or jurisdictional challenges, and other sector-specific policies that are inhibiting, or could inhibit, the development or deployment of the Internet of Things;
(B)
consider policies or programs that encourage and improve coordination among Federal agencies that have responsibilities that are relevant to the objectives of this section;
(C)
consider any findings or recommendations made by the steering committee and, where appropriate, act to implement those recommendations;
(D)
examine—
(i)
how Federal agencies can benefit from utilizing the Internet of Things;
(ii)
the use of Internet of Things technology by Federal agencies as of the date on which the working group performs the examination;
(iii)
the preparedness and ability of Federal agencies to adopt Internet of Things technology as of the date on which the working group performs the examination and in the future; and
(iv)
any additional security measures that Federal agencies may need to take to—
(I)
safely and securely use the Internet of Things, including measures that ensure the security of critical infrastructure; and
(II)
enhance the resiliency of Federal systems against cyber threats to the Internet of Things; and
(E)
in carrying out the examinations required under subclauses (I) and (II) of subparagraph (D)(iv), ensure to the maximum extent possible the coordination of the current and future activities of the Federal Government relating to security with respect to the Internet of Things.
(3)
Agency representatives
In convening the working group under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall have discretion to appoint representatives from Federal agencies and departments as appropriate and shall specifically consider seeking representation from—
(A)
the Department of Commerce, including—
(i)
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration;
(ii)
the National Institute of Standards and Technology; and
(iii)
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(B)
the Department of Transportation;
(C)
the Department of Homeland Security;
(D)
the Office of Management and Budget;
(E)
the National Science Foundation;
(F)
the Commission;
(G)
the Federal Trade Commission;
(H)
the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(I)
the Department of Energy; and
(J)
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(4)
Nongovernmental stakeholders
The working group shall consult with nongovernmental stakeholders with expertise relating to the Internet of Things, including—
(A)
the steering committee;
(B)
information and communications technology manufacturers, suppliers, service providers, and vendors;
(C)
subject matter experts representing industrial sectors other than the technology sector that can benefit from the Internet of Things, including the transportation, energy, agriculture, and health care sectors;
(D)
small, medium, and large businesses;
(E)
think tanks and academia;
(F)
nonprofit organizations and consumer groups;
(G)
security experts;
(H)
rural stakeholders; and
(I)
other stakeholders with relevant expertise, as determined by the Secretary.
(5)
Steering committee
(A)
Establishment
There is established within the Department of Commerce a steering committee to advise the working group.
(B)
Duties
The steering committee shall advise the working group with respect to—
(i)
the identification of any Federal regulations, statutes, grant practices, programs, budgetary or jurisdictional challenges, and other sector-specific policies that are inhibiting, or could inhibit, the development of the Internet of Things;
(ii)
situations in which the use of the Internet of Things is likely to deliver significant and scalable economic and societal benefits to the United States, including benefits from or to—
(I)
smart traffic and transit technologies;
(II)
augmented logistics and supply chains;
(III)
sustainable infrastructure;
(IV)
precision agriculture;
(V)
environmental monitoring;
(VI)
public safety; and
(VII)
health care;
(iii)
whether adequate spectrum is available to support the growing Internet of Things and what legal or regulatory barriers may exist to providing any spectrum needed in the future;
(iv)
policies, programs, or multi-stakeholder activities that—
(I)
promote or are related to the privacy of individuals who use or are affected by the Internet of Things;
(II)
may enhance the security of the Internet of Things, including the security of critical infrastructure;
(III)
may protect users of the Internet of Things; and
(IV)
may encourage coordination among Federal agencies with jurisdiction over the Internet of Things;
(v)
the opportunities and challenges associated with the use of Internet of Things technology by small businesses; and
(vi)
any international proceeding, international negotiation, or other international matter affecting the Internet of Things to which the United States is or should be a party.
(C)
Membership
The Secretary shall appoint to the steering committee members representing a wide range of stakeholders outside of the Federal Government with expertise relating to the Internet of Things, including—
(i)
information and communications technology manufacturers, suppliers, service providers, and vendors;
(ii)
subject matter experts representing industrial sectors other than the technology sector that can benefit from the Internet of Things, including the transportation, energy, agriculture, and health care sectors;
(iii)
small, medium, and large businesses;
(iv)
think tanks and academia;
(v)
nonprofit organizations and consumer groups;
(vi)
security experts;
(vii)
rural stakeholders; and
(viii)
other stakeholders with relevant expertise, as determined by the Secretary.
(D)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the steering committee shall submit to the working group a report that includes any findings or recommendations of the steering committee.
(E)
Independent advice
(i)
In general
The steering committee shall set the agenda of the steering committee in carrying out the duties of the steering committee under subparagraph (B).
(ii)
Suggestions
The working group may suggest topics or items for the steering committee to study, and the steering committee shall take those suggestions into consideration in carrying out the duties of the steering committee.
(iii)
Report
The steering committee shall ensure that the report submitted under subparagraph (D) is the result of the independent judgment of the steering committee.
(F)
No compensation for members
A member of the steering committee shall serve without compensation.
(G)
Termination
The steering committee shall terminate on the date on which the working group submits the report under paragraph (6).
(6)
Report to Congress
(A)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the working group shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
(i)
the findings and recommendations of the working group with respect to the duties of the working group under paragraph (2);
(ii)
the report submitted by the steering committee under paragraph (5)(D), as the report was received by the working group;
(iii)
recommendations for action or reasons for inaction, as applicable, with respect to each recommendation made by the steering committee in the report submitted under paragraph (5)(D); and
(iv)
an accounting of any progress made by Federal agencies to implement recommendations made by the working group or the steering committee.
(B)
Copy of report
The working group shall submit a copy of the report described in subparagraph (A) to—
(i)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(ii)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(iii)
any other committee of Congress, upon request to the working group.
(c)
Assessing spectrum needs
(1)
In general
The Commission, in consultation with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, shall issue a notice of inquiry seeking public comment on the current, as of the date of enactment of this Act, and future spectrum needs to enable better connectivity relating to the Internet of Things.
(2)
Requirements
In issuing the notice of inquiry under paragraph (1), the Commission shall seek comments that consider and evaluate—
(A)
whether adequate spectrum is available, or is planned for allocation, for commercial wireless services that could support the growing Internet of Things;
(B)
if adequate spectrum is not available for the purposes described in subparagraph (A), how to ensure that adequate spectrum is available for increased demand with respect to the Internet of Things;
(C)
what regulatory barriers may exist to providing any needed spectrum that would support uses relating to the Internet of Things; and
(D)
what the role of unlicensed and licensed spectrum is and will be in the growth of the Internet of Things.
(3)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report summarizing the comments submitted in response to the notice of inquiry issued under paragraph (1).
E
Plans, Reports, and Other Matters
5241.
Report on Department of Defense strategy on artificial intelligence standards
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the role of the Department of Defense in the development of artificial intelligence standards.
(b)
Contents
The report required by subsection (a) shall include an assessment of each of the following:
(1)
The need for the Department of Defense to develop an artificial intelligence standards strategy.
(2)
Any efforts to date on the development of such a strategy.
(3)
The ways in which an artificial intelligence standards strategy will improve the national security.
(4)
How the Secretary intends to collaborate with—
(A)
the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
(B)
the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(C)
the intelligence community;
(D)
the Secretary of State;
(E)
representatives of private industry, specifically representatives of the defense industrial base; and
(F)
representatives of any other agencies, entities, organizations, or persons the Secretary considers appropriate.
5242.
Study on establishment of energetics program office
The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall conduct a study to assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing a program office to coordinate energetics research and to ensure a robust and sustained energetics material enterprise.
5243.
Deepfake report
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Digital content forgery
The term
digital content forgery
means the use of emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques, to fabricate or manipulate audio, visual, or text content with the intent to mislead.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(b)
Reports on digital content forgery technology
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, shall produce a report on the state of digital content forgery technology.
(2)
Contents
Each report produced under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
an assessment of the underlying technologies used to create or propagate digital content forgeries, including the evolution of such technologies;
(B)
a description of the types of digital content forgeries, including those used to commit fraud, cause harm, or violate civil rights recognized under Federal law;
(C)
an assessment of how foreign governments, and the proxies and networks thereof, use, or could use, digital content forgeries to harm national security;
(D)
an assessment of how non-governmental entities in the United States use, or could use, digital content forgeries;
(E)
an assessment of the uses, applications, dangers, and benefits of deep learning technologies used to generate high fidelity artificial content of events that did not occur, including the impact on individuals;
(F)
an analysis of the methods used to determine whether content is genuinely created by a human or through digital content forgery technology and an assessment of any effective heuristics used to make such a determination, as well as recommendations on how to identify and address suspect content and elements to provide warnings to users of the content;
(G)
a description of the technological counter-measures that are, or could be, used to address concerns with digital content forgery technology; and
(H)
any additional information the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Consultation and public hearings
In producing each report required under paragraph (1), the Secretary may—
(A)
consult with any other agency of the Federal Government that the Secretary considers necessary; and
(B)
conduct public hearings to gather, or otherwise allow interested parties an opportunity to present, information and advice relevant to the production of the report.
(4)
Form of report
Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be produced in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
(5)
Applicability of FOIA
Nothing in this section, or in a report produced under this section, shall be construed to allow the disclosure of information or a record that is exempt from public disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the
Freedom of Information Act
).
(6)
Applicability of the Paperwork Reduction Act
Subchapter I of
chapter 35
of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as the
Paperwork Reduction Act
), shall not apply to this section.
5244.
CISA Director
Subchapter II of
chapter 53
of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in section 5313, by inserting after the item relating to
Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration
the following:
Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
; and
(2)
in section 5314, by striking the item relating to
Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
.
5245.
Agency review
(a)
Requirement of comprehensive review
In order to strengthen the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall conduct a comprehensive review of the ability of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency to fulfill—
(1)
the missions of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency; and
(2)
the recommendations detailed in the report issued by the Cyberspace Solarium Commission under section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
).
(b)
Elements of review
The review conducted under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
(1)
An assessment of how additional budget resources could be used by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency for projects and programs that—
(A)
support the national risk management mission;
(B)
support public and private-sector cybersecurity;
(C)
promote public-private integration; and
(D)
provide situational awareness of cybersecurity threats.
(2)
A comprehensive force structure assessment of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency including—
(A)
a determination of the appropriate size and composition of personnel to accomplish the mission of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, as well as the recommendations detailed in the report issued by the Cyberspace Solarium Commission under section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
);
(B)
an assessment of whether existing personnel are appropriately matched to the prioritization of threats in the cyber domain and risks in critical infrastructure;
(C)
an assessment of whether the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has the appropriate personnel and resources to—
(i)
perform risk assessments, threat hunting, incident response to support both private and public cybersecurity;
(ii)
carry out the responsibilities of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency related to the security of Federal information and Federal information systems; and
(iii)
carry out the critical infrastructure responsibilities of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, including national risk management; and
(D)
an assessment of whether current structure, personnel, and resources of regional field offices are sufficient in fulfilling agency responsibilities and mission requirements.
(c)
Submission of review
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to Congress detailing the results of the assessments required under subsection (b), including recommendations to address any identified gaps.
5246.
General Services Administration review
(a)
Review
The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall—
(1)
conduct a review of current Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency facilities and assess the suitability of such facilities to fully support current and projected mission requirements nationally and regionally; and
(2)
make recommendations regarding resources needed to procure or build a new facility or augment existing facilities to ensure sufficient size and accommodations to fully support current and projected mission requirements, including the integration of personnel from the private sector and other departments and agencies.
(b)
Submission of review
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the General Services Administration shall submit the review required under subsection (a) to—
(1)
the President;
(2)
the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
(3)
to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
LIII
Operation and Maintenance
C
Logistics and Sustainment
5331.
Use of cost savings realized from intergovernmental services agreements for installation-support services
(a)
Requirement
Section 2679 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Use of cost savings realized
(1)
With respect to a fiscal year in which cost savings are realized as a result of entering into an intergovernmental support agreement under this section for a military installation, the Secretary concerned shall make not less than 25 percent of the amount of such savings available for use by the commander of the installation solely for sustainment restoration and modernization requirements that have been approved by the major subordinate command or equivalent component.
(2)
Not less frequently than annually, the Secretary concerned shall certify to the congressional defense committee the amount of the cost savings achieved, the source and type of intergovernmental support agreement that achieved the savings, and the manner in which those savings were deployed, disaggregated by installation.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2021 and each subsequent fiscal year.
D
Reports
5351.
Report on non-permissive, global positioning system denied airfield capabilities
(a)
In general
Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report assessing the ability of each combatant command to conduct all-weather, day-night airfield operations in a non-permissive, global positioning system denied environment.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
An assessment of current air traffic control and landing systems at existing airfields and contingency airfields.
(2)
An assessment of the ability of each combatant command to conduct all-weather, day-night airfield flight operations in a non-permissive, global positioning system denied environment at existing and contingency airfields, including aircraft tracking and precision landing.
(3)
An assessment of the ability of each combatant command to rapidly set up and conduct operations at alternate airfields, including the ability to receive and deploy forces in a non-permissive, global positioning system denied environment.
(4)
A list of backup systems in place or pre-positioned to be able to reconstitute operations after an attack.
E
Other Matters
5371.
Increase of amounts available to Marine Corps for base operations and support
(a)
Increase of base operations and support
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Marine Corps, is hereby increased by $47,600,000, with the amount of the increase to be available for base operations and support (SAG BSS1).
(b)
Offsets
(1)
Operation and maintenance
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by $4,700,000, with the amount of the reduction to be derived from SAG 1A1A.
(2)
Modification kit procurement
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement for the Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by $3,100,000, with the amount of the reduction to be derived from Line 7, Modification Kits.
(3)
Direct support munition procurement
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement and ammunition for the Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by $39,800,000, with the amount of the reduction to be derived from Line 17, Direct Support Munitions.
5372.
Modernization of congressional reports process
(a)
Increase in O&M, Defense-wide activities
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 is hereby increased by $2,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be available for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide activities, for SAG 4GTN Office of the Secretary of Defense for modernization of the congressional reports process.
(b)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 is hereby decreased by $2,000,000, with the amount of the decrease to be applied against amounts available for operation and maintenance, Army, for SAG 421 for Servicewide Transportation for historical underexecution.
LV
Military Personnel Policy
C
General Service Authorities
5516.
Report on implementation of recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States on recruitment and retention of female members of the Armed Forces
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth a comprehensive plan to implement and accomplish the recommendations for the Department of Defense in keeping with the May 2020 report of the Government Accountability Office titled
Female Active-Duty Personnel: Guidance and Plans Needed for Recruitment and Retention Efforts
, namely the recommendations as follows:
(1)
The Secretary of Defense must ensure that the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness provides guidance to each of the Armed Forces to develop plans, with clearly defined goals, performance measures, and timeframes, to guide and monitor the efforts in connection with the recruitment and retention of female members.
(2)
Each Secretary of a military department must develop a plan, with clearly defined goals, performance measures, and timeframes, to guide and monitor the efforts of each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in connection with the recruitment and retention of female members in such Armed Force.
F
Decorations and Awards
5551.
Report on regulations and procedures to implement programs on award of medals or commendations to handlers of military working dogs
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the regulations and other procedures prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments in order to implement and carry out the programs of the military departments on the award of medals or other commendations to handlers of military working dogs required by section 582 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
; 132 Stat. 1787;
10 U.S.C. 1121
note prec.).
G
Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness Matters
II
Military Family Readiness Matters
5571.
Independent study and report on military spouse underemployment
(a)
Independent study
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a contract with a Federally funded research and development center to conduct a study on underemployment among military spouses. The study shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
The prevalence of unemployment and underemployment among military spouses, including differences by Armed Force, region, State, education level, and income level.
(2)
The causes of unemployment and underemployment among military spouses.
(3)
The differences in unemployment and underemployment between military spouses and civilians.
(4)
Barriers to small business ownership and entrepreneurship faced by military spouses.
(b)
Submittal to DoD
Not later than 240 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federally funded research and development center with which the Secretary contracts pursuant to subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary a report containing the results of the study conducted pursuant to that subsection.
(c)
Transmittal to Congress
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress the report under subsection (b), without change.
(d)
Appropriate committees of congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means the following—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Education and Labor, the Committee on Small Business, and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
H
Other Matters
5586.
Questions regarding racism, anti-Semitism, and supremacism in workplace surveys administered by the Secretary of Defense
Section 593 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(a)
Questions required.—
before
The Secretary
;
(2)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, racist, anti-Semitic, or supremacist
after
extremist
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(b)
Report
Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report including—
(1)
the text of the questions included in surveys under subsection (a); and
(2)
which surveys include such questions.
.
5587.
Briefing on the implementation of requirements on connections of retiring and separating members of the Armed Forces with community-based organizations and related entities
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief Congress on the current status of the implementation of the requirements of section 570F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
; 133 Stat. 1401;
10 U.S.C. 1142
note), relating to connections of retiring and separating members of the Armed Forces with community-based organizations and related entities.
5590.
Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to State governments and National Guards of other States of cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents
(a)
Ineffectiveness of section 590
Section 590 shall have no force or effect.
(b)
Pilot programs authorized
The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air Force may each, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, conduct a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of the development of a capability within the National Guard through which a National Guard of a State remotely provides State governments and National Guards of other States (whether or not in the same Armed Force as the providing National Guard) with cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber incidents. If such Secretary elects to conduct such a pilot program, such Secretary shall be known as an
administering Secretary
for purposes of this section, and any reference in this section to
the pilot program
shall be treated as a reference to the pilot program conducted by such Secretary.
(c)
Assessment prior to commencement
For purposes of evaluating existing platforms, technologies, and capabilities under subsection (d), and for establishing eligibility and participation requirements under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot program, an administering Secretary, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing the pilot program—
(1)
conduct an assessment of—
(A)
existing cyber response capacities of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard, as applicable, in each State; and
(B)
any existing platform, technology, or capability of a National Guard that provides the capability described in subsection (b); and
(2)
determine whether a platform, technology, or capability described in paragraph (1)(B) is suitable for expansion for purposes of the pilot program.
(d)
Elements
A pilot program under subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1)
A technical capability that enables the National Guard of a State to remotely provide cybersecurity technical assistance to State governments and National Guards of other States, without the need to deploy outside its home State.
(2)
Policies, processes, procedures, and authorities for use of such a capability, including with respect to the following:
(A)
The roles and responsibilities of both requesting and deploying State governments and National Guards with respect to such technical assistance, taking into account the matters specified in subsection (g).
(B)
Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber Incident Coordinating Procedure, or any other applicable Department of Defense instruction, for purposes of implementing the capability.
(C)
Program management and governance structures for deployment and maintenance of the capability.
(D)
Security when performing remote support, including such in matters such as authentication and remote sensing.
(3)
The conduct, in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, other Federal agencies, and appropriate non-Federal entities, of at least one exercise to demonstrate the capability, which exercise shall include the following:
(A)
Participation of not fewer than two State governments and their National Guards.
(B)
Circumstances designed to test and validate the policies, processes, procedures, and authorities developed pursuant to paragraph (2).
(C)
An after action review of the exercise.
(e)
Use of existing technology
An administering Secretary may use an existing platform, technology, or capability to provide the capability described in subsection (b) under the pilot program.
(f)
Eligibility and participation requirements
An administering Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, establish requirements with respect to eligibility and participation of State governments and their National Guards in the pilot program.
(g)
Construction with certain current authorities
(1)
Command authorities
Nothing in a pilot program under subsection (b) may be construed as affecting or altering the command authorities otherwise applicable to any unit of the National Guard unit participating in the pilot program.
(2)
Emergency management assistance compact
Nothing in a pilot program may be construed as affecting or altering any current agreement under the Emergency Management Assistance Compact, or any other State agreements, or as determinative of the future content of any such agreement.
(h)
Evaluation metrics
An administering Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security, establish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program.
(i)
Term
A pilot program under subsection (b) shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
(j)
Reports
(1)
Initial report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the commencement of the pilot program, the administering Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a description of the pilot program and such other matters in connection with the pilot program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2)
Final report
Not later than 180 days after the termination of the pilot program, the administering Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
(A)
A description of the pilot program, including any partnerships entered into by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau under the pilot program.
(B)
A summary of the assessment performed prior to the commencement of the pilot program in accordance with subsection (c).
(C)
A summary of the evaluation metrics established in accordance with subsection (h).
(D)
An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot program, and of the capability described in subsection (b) under the pilot program.
(E)
A description of costs associated with the implementation and conduct of the pilot program.
(F)
A recommendation as to the termination or extension of the pilot program, or the making of the pilot program permanent with an expansion nationwide.
(G)
An estimate of the costs of making the pilot program permanent and expanding it nationwide in accordance with the recommendation in subparagraph (F).
(H)
Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program.
(3)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(k)
State defined
In this section, the term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
LVII
Health Care Provisions
A
TRICARE and Other Health Care Provisions
5707.
Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription maintenance medications under TRICARE pharmacy benefits program
The reference in section 707(c) to section 1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of title 10, United States Code, is deemed to be a reference to section 1074g(a)(9)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States Code.
B
Health Care Administration
5723.
Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements during national emergencies for purposes of provision of health care
Section 723 and the amendments made by that section shall have no force or effect.
C
Reports and Other Matters
5741.
Study and report on surge capacity of Department of Defense to establish negative air room containment systems in military medical treatment facilities
(a)
Study
The Director of the Defense Health Agency shall conduct a study on the use, scalability, and military requirements for commercial off the shelf negative air pressure room containment systems in order to improve pandemic preparedness at military medical treatment facilities worldwide, to include an assessment of whether such systems would improve the readiness of the Department of Defense to expand capability and capacity to evaluate and treat patients at such facilities during a pandemic.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a).
LVIII
Acquisition Policy, Acquisition Management, and Related Matters
A
Industrial Base Matters
5801.
Report on use of domestic nonavailability determinations
Not later than September 30, 2021, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to congressional defense committees—
(1)
describing in detail the use of any waiver or exception to the requirements of section 2533a of title 10, United States Code, relating to domestic nonavailability determinations;
(2)
providing reasoning for the use of each such waiver or exception; and
(3)
providing an assessment of the impact on the use of such waivers or exceptions due to the COVID–19 pandemic and associated challenges with investments in domestic sources.
5802.
Report on the effect of the Defense Manufacturing Communities Support Program on the defense supply chain
Not later than September 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report evaluating the effect of the Defense Manufacturing Communities Support Program on the defense supply chain. The evaluation should consider the program’s effect on—
(1)
the diversification of the supply chain;
(2)
procurement costs; and
(3)
efficient procurement processes.
5803.
Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the national technology and industrial base
Section 803(d)(2) is deemed amended as follows:
(1)
Subparagraph (A) of such section is deemed to read as follows:
(A)
analysis of the national security impacts, cost, and benefits to the United States and allies of the inclusion of such additional member nation in the national technology and industrial base, including criticality to program and mission accomplishment;
.
(2)
In the stem of subparagraph (B) of such section,
costs,
is deemed to be read
impacts, costs,
.
(3)
In clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) of such section
base;
is deemed to read
base, including costs to reconstitute capability should such capability be lost to competition;
.
5808.
Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit boards
Section 808 is deemed to include at the end the following:
(h)
Sense of Congress on mitigating risks of reliance on certain sources of supply and manufacturing for printed circuit boards
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Department of Defense must take steps to reduce and mitigate risks of reliance on certain sources of supply and manufacturing for printed circuit boards; and
(2)
the provisions of this section are intended to augment, rather than reduce or supersede, current efforts to reduce and mitigate such risks.
.
5812.
Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods
Notwithstanding the amendments made by section 812—
(1)
the subparagraph (A) proposed to be included in subsection (a)(2) of section 2534 of title 10, United States Code, shall not be included;
(2)
subsection (b) of such section is deemed to read as follows:
(b)
Manufacturer in the national technology and industrial base
A manufacturer meets the requirements of this subsection if the manufacturer is part of the national technology and industrial base.
; and
(3)
the amendment to subsection (h) of such section is deemed to insert the following:
subsection (a)(2)
.
C
Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
5841.
Waivers of certain conditions for progress payments under certain contracts during the COVID–19 national emergency
During the national emergency declared under the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (commonly referred to as
COVID–19
), the Secretary of Defense may waive section 2307(e)(2) of title 10, United States Code, with respect to progress payments for any undefinitized contract.
E
Small Business Matters
5871.
Office of Small Business and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(k)
) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(1)
by inserting after the first sentence the following:
If the Government Accountability Office has determined that a Federal agency is not in compliance with all of the requirements under this subsection, the Federal agency shall, not later than 120 days after that determination or 120 days after the date of enactment of this sentence, whichever is later, submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report that includes the reasons why the Federal agency is not in compliance and the specific actions that the Federal agency will take to comply with the requirements under this subsection.
; and
(2)
by striking
The management of each such office
and inserting
The management of each Office of Small Business and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
.
5872.
Eligibility of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for certain Small Business Administration programs
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.) is amended—
(1)
in section 21(a) (
15 U.S.C. 648(a)
)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting before
The Administration shall require
the following new sentence:
The previous sentence shall not apply to an applicant that has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
; and
(B)
in paragraph (4)(C)(ix), by striking
and American Samoa
and inserting
American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
; and
(2)
in section 34(a)(9) (
15 U.S.C. 657d(a)(9)
), by striking
and American Samoa
and inserting
American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
.
5873.
Disaster declaration in rural areas
(a)
In general
Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(b)
) is amended by inserting after paragraph (15) the following:
(16)
Disaster declaration in rural areas
(A)
Definitions
In this paragraph—
(i)
the term
rural area
means an area with a population of less than 200,000 outside an urbanized area; and
(ii)
the term
significant damage
means, with respect to property, uninsured losses of not less than 40 percent of the estimated fair replacement value or pre-disaster fair market value of the damaged property, whichever is lower.
(B)
Disaster declaration
Notwithstanding section 123.3(a) of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, the Administrator may declare a disaster in a rural area for which a major disaster was declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
) if—
(i)
the Governor of the State in which the rural area is located requests such a declaration; and
(ii)
any home, small business concern, private nonprofit organization, or small agricultural cooperative has incurred significant damage in the rural area.
(C)
SBA report
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every year thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on, with respect to the 1-year period preceding submission of the report—
(i)
any economic injury that resulted from a major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
) in a rural area;
(ii)
each request for assistance made by the Governor of a State under subparagraph (B)(i) and the response of the Administrator, including the timeline for each response; and
(iii)
any regulatory changes that will impact the ability of communities in rural areas to obtain disaster assistance under this subsection.
.
(b)
Regulations
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall issue regulations to carry out the amendment made by subsection (a).
(c)
GAO report
(1)
Definition of rural area
In this subsection, the term
rural area
means an area with a population of less than 200,000 outside an urbanized area.
(2)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on—
(A)
any unique challenges that communities in rural areas face compared to communities in metropolitan areas when seeking to obtain disaster assistance under section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636(b)
); and
(B)
legislative recommendations for improving access to disaster assistance for communities in rural areas.
5874.
Temporary extension for 8(a) participants
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall allow a small business concern (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
)) participating in the program established under section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(a)
) on the date of enactment of this section to extend such participation by a period of 1 year.
5875.
Maximum award price for sole source manufacturing contracts
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.) is amended—
(1)
in section 8 (
15 U.S.C. 637
)—
(A)
in subsection (a)(1)(D)(i)(II), by striking
$5,000,000
and inserting
$7,000,000
; and
(B)
in subsection (m)—
(i)
in paragraph (7)(B)(i), by striking
$6,500,000
and inserting
$7,000,000
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (8)(B)(i), by striking
$6,500,000
and inserting
$7,000,000
;
(2)
in section 31(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I) (
15 U.S.C. 657a(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I)
), by striking
$5,000,000
and inserting
$7,000,000
; and
(3)
in section 36(a)(2)(A) (
15 U.S.C. 657f(a)(2)(A)
), by striking
$5,000,000
and inserting
$7,000,000
.
5876.
Annual reports regarding the SBIR program of the Department of Defense
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
SBIR
has the meaning given the term in section 9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(e)(4)
); and
(2)
the term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Defense.
(b)
Reports required
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year that begins after that date of enactment, the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of each branch of the Armed Forces, shall submit, through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, to Congress a report that addresses—
(1)
the ways in which the Secretary, as of the date on which the report is submitted, is using incentives to Department of Defense program managers under section 9(y)(6)(B) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(y)(6)(B)
) to increase the number of Phase II SBIR contracts awarded by the Secretary that lead to technology transition into programs of record or fielded systems, which shall include the judgment of the Secretary regarding the potential effect of providing monetary incentives to those officers for that purpose;
(2)
the extent to which the Department of Defense has developed simplified and standardized procedures and model contracts throughout the agency for Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III SBIR awards, as required under section 9(hh)(2)(A)(i) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(hh)(2)(A)(i)
);
(3)
with respect to each report submitted under this section after the submission of the first such report, the extent to which any incentives described in this section and implemented by the Secretary have resulted in an increased number of Phase II contracts under the SBIR program of the Department of Defense leading to technology transition into programs of record or fielded systems;
(4)
the extent to which Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III projects under the SBIR program of the Department of Defense align with the modernization priorities of the Department, including with respect to artificial intelligence, biotechnology, autonomy, cybersecurity, directed energy, fully networked command, control, and communication systems, microelectronics, quantum science, hypersonics, and space; and
(5)
any other action taken, and proposed to be taken, to increase the number of Department of Defense Phase II SBIR contracts leading to technology transition into programs of record or fielded systems.
5877.
Small business loans for nonprofit child care providers
Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(10)
Nonprofit child care providers
(A)
Definition
In this paragraph, the term
covered nonprofit child care provider
means an organization—
(i)
that—
(I)
is in compliance with licensing requirements for child care providers of the State in which the organization is located;
(II)
is described in
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code; and
(III)
is primarily engaged in providing child care for children from birth to compulsory school age;
(ii)
for which each employee and regular volunteer complies with the criminal background check requirements under section 658H(b) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 9858f(b)
); and
(iii)
that may—
(I)
provide care for school-age children outside of school hours or outside of the school year; or
(II)
offer preschool or prekindergarten educational programs.
(B)
Eligibility for loan programs
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, a covered nonprofit child care provider shall be deemed to be a small business concern for purposes of any program under this Act or the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (
15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.) under which—
(i)
the Administrator may make loans to small business concerns;
(ii)
the Administrator may guarantee timely payment of loans to small business concerns; or
(iii)
the recipient of a loan made or guaranteed by the Administrator may make loans to small business concerns.
.
G
Other Matters
5891.
Listing of other transaction authority consortia
Beginning not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall maintain on the government-wide point of entry for contracting opportunities, Beta.SAM.gov (or any successor system), a list of the consortia used by the Department of Defense to announce or otherwise make available contracting opportunities using other transaction authority (OTA).
5892.
Report recommending disposition of notes to certain sections of title 10, United States Code
(a)
In general
Not later than March 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report recommending the disposition of provisions of law found in the notes to the following sections of title 10, United States Code:
(1)
Section 2313.
(2)
Section 2364.
(3)
Section 2432.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
for each provision of law included as a note to a section listed in such subsection, a recommendation whether such provision—
(A)
should be repealed because the provision is no longer operative or is otherwise obsolete;
(B)
should be codified as a section to title 10, United States Code, because the section has, and is anticipated to continue to have in the future, significant relevance; or
(C)
should remain as a note to such section; and
(2)
any legislative proposals appropriate to improve the intent and effect of the sections listed in such subsection.
(c)
Technical corrections
(1)
Section 2362(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
both places it appears and inserting
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
.
(2)
Section 804(c) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (
Public Law 107–314
;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended by striking
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics,
and inserting
The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
.
5893.
Applicability of reporting requirement related to notional milestones and standard timelines for foreign military sales
Section 887 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115 –91;
22 U.S.C. 2761
note) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
(c)
Applicability
The reporting requirements under this section apply only to foreign military sales processes within the Department of Defense.
.
5894.
Additional requirements related to mitigating risks related to foreign ownership, control, or influence of Department of Defense contractors and subcontractors
(a)
Compliance assessment
Subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of section 847(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
(v)
A requirement for the Secretary to require reports and conduct examinations on a periodic basis of covered contractors and subcontractors in order to assess compliance with the requirements of this section.
.
(b)
Additional requirements for responsibility determinations
Subparagraph (B) of such paragraph is amended—
(1)
in clause (ii), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(2)
by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and
(3)
by inserting after clause (ii) the following new clause:
(iii)
procedures for appropriately responding to changes in contractor or subcontractor beneficial ownership status based on changes in disclosures of their beneficial ownership relating to whether they are under FOCI and based on the reports and examinations required by subparagraph (A)(v); and
.
(c)
Timelines and milestones for implementation
(1)
Implementation plan
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees a plan and schedule for implementation of the requirements of section 847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), including—
(A)
a timeline for issuance of regulations, development of training for appropriate officials, and development of systems for reporting of beneficial ownership and FOCI by contractors and subcontractors;
(B)
designation of officials and organizations responsible for execution; and
(C)
interim milestones to be met in implementing the plan.
(2)
Revision of regulations, directives, guidance, training, and policies
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise relevant directives, guidance, training, and policies, including revising the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement as needed, to fully implement section 847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), as amended by this section.
LIX
Department of Defense Organization and Management
D
Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense Offices and Elements
5951.
Comptroller General of the United States report on vulnerabilities of the Department of Defense resulting from offshore technical support call centers
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on vulnerabilities in connection with the provision of services by offshore technical support call centers to the Department of Defense.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description and assessment of the location of all offshore technical support call centers.
(2)
A description and assessment of the types of information shared by the Department with foreign nationals at offshore technical support call centers.
(3)
An assessment of the extent to which access to such information by foreign nationals creates vulnerabilities to the information technology network of the Department.
(c)
Offshore technical support call center defined
In this section, the term
offshore technical support call center
means a call center that—
(1)
is physically located outside the United States;
(2)
employs individuals who are foreign nationals; and
(3)
may be contacted by personnel of the Department to provide technical support relating to technology used by the Department.
LX
General Provisions
A
Financial Matters
6001.
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) reports on improving the budget justification and related materials of the Department of Defense
(a)
Reports required
Not later than April 1 of each of 2021 through 2025, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on improving the following:
(1)
Modernization of covered materials, including the following:
(A)
Updating the format of such materials in order to account for significant improvements in document management and data visualization.
(B)
Expanding the scope and quality of data included in such materials.
(2)
Streamlining of the production of covered materials within the Department of Defense.
(3)
Transmission of covered materials to Congress.
(4)
Availability of adequate resources and capabilities to permit the Department to integrate changes to covered materials together with its submittal of current covered materials.
(5)
Promotion of the flow between the Department and the congressional defense committees of other information required by Congress for its oversight of budgeting for the Department and the future-years defense programs.
(b)
Covered materials defined
In this section, the term
covered materials
means the following:
(1)
Materials submitted in support of the budget of the President for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
(2)
Materials submitted in connection with the future-years defense program for a fiscal year under section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
6002.
Report on fiscal year 2022 budget request requirements in connection with Air Force operations in the Arctic
The Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees, not later than 30 days after submission of the budget justification documents submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code), a report that includes the following:
(1)
A description of the manner in which amounts requested for the Air Force in the budget for fiscal year 2022 support Air Force operations in the Arctic.
(2)
A list of the procurement initiatives and research, development, test, and evaluation initiatives funded by that budget that are primarily intended to enhance the ability of the Air Force to deploy to or operate in the Arctic region, or to defend the northern approach to the United States homeland.
(3)
An assessment of the adequacy of the infrastructure of Air Force installations in Alaska and in the States along the northern border of the continental United States to support deployments to and operations in the Arctic region, including an assessment of runways, fuel lines, and aircraft maintenance capacity for purposes of such support.
6003.
Providing information to States regarding undelivered savings bonds
Section 3105 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
(1)
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the Secretary shall provide each State, as digital or other electronically searchable forms become available (including digital images), with sufficient information to identify the registered owner of any applicable savings bond with a registration address that is within such State, including the serial number of the bond, the name and registered address of such owner, and any registered beneficiaries.
(2)
The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including rules to—
(A)
protect the privacy of the owners of applicable savings bonds;
(B)
ensure that any information provided to a State under this subsection shall be used solely to locate such owners and assist them in redeeming such bonds with the United States Treasury; and
(C)
ensure that owners of applicable savings bonds seeking to redeem such bonds with the United States Treasury are able to do so in an expeditious manner.
(3)
Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report assessing all efforts to satisfy the requirement under paragraph (1).
(4)
For purposes of this subsection, the term
applicable savings bond
means a matured and unredeemed savings bond.
.
E
Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
6046.
Conditions for permanently basing United States equipment or additional military units in host countries with at-risk vendors in 5G or 6G networks
(a)
Ineffectiveness of section 1046
Section 1046 shall have no force or effect.
(b)
In general
Prior to a decision for basing a major weapon system or an additional military unit comparable to or larger than a battalion, squadron, or naval combatant for permanent basing to a host nation with at-risk 5th generation (5G) or sixth generation (6G) wireless network equipment, software, and services, including the use of telecommunications equipment, software, and services provided by vendors such as Huawei and ZTE, where United States military personnel and their families will be directly connected or subscribers to networks that include such at-risk equipment, software, and services in their official duties or in the conduct of personal affairs, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a certification to Congress that includes—
(1)
an acknowledgment by the host nation of the risk posed by the network architecture;
(2)
a description of steps being taken by the host nation to mitigate any potential risks to the weapon systems, military units, or personnel, and the Department of Defense’s assessment of those efforts;
(3)
a description of steps being taken by the United States Government to mitigate any potential risks to the weapon systems, military units, or personnel; and
(4)
a description of any defense mutual agreements between the host nation and the United States intended to allay the costs of risk mitigation posed by the at-risk infrastructure.
(c)
Applicability
The conditions in subsection (b) apply to the permanent long-term stationing of equipment and personnel, and do not apply to short-term deployments or rotational presence to military installations outside the United States in connection with exercises, dynamic force employment, contingency operations, or combat operations.
(d)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that contains an assessment of—
(1)
the risk to personnel, equipment, and operations of the Department of Defense in host countries posed by the current or intended use by such countries of 5G or 6G telecommunications architecture provided by at-risk vendors; and
(2)
measures required to mitigate the risk described in paragraph (1), including the merit and feasibility of the relocation of certain personnel or equipment of the Department to another location without the presence of 5G or 6G telecommunications architecture provided by at-risk vendors.
(e)
Form
The report required by subsection (c) shall be submitted in a classified form with an unclassified summary.
6047.
Antidiscrimination
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Elijah E. Cummings Federal Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2020
.
(b)
Sense of Congress
Section 102 of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
(4)
accountability in the enforcement of the rights of Federal employees is furthered when Federal agencies agree to take appropriate disciplinary action against Federal employees who are found to have intentionally committed discriminatory (including retaliatory) acts;
; and
(2)
in paragraph (5)(A)—
(A)
by striking
nor is accountability
and inserting
accountability is not
; and
(B)
by inserting
for what, by law, the agency is responsible
after
under this Act
.
(c)
Notification of violation
Section 202 of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Notification of final agency action
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date on which an event described in paragraph (2) occurs with respect to a finding of discrimination (including retaliation), the head of the Federal agency subject to the finding shall provide notice—
(A)
on the public internet website of the agency, in a clear and prominent location linked directly from the home page of that website;
(B)
stating that a finding of discrimination (including retaliation) has been made; and
(C)
which shall remain posted for not less than 1 year.
(2)
Events described
An event described in this paragraph is any of the following:
(A)
All appeals of a final action by a Federal agency involving a finding of discrimination (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a) have been exhausted.
(B)
All appeals of a final decision by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission involving a finding of discrimination (including if the finding included a finding of retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a) have been exhausted.
(C)
A court of jurisdiction issues a final judgment involving a finding of discrimination (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a).
(3)
Contents
A notification provided under paragraph (1) with respect to a finding of discrimination (including retaliation) shall—
(A)
identify the date on which the finding was made, the date on which each discriminatory act occurred, and the law violated by each such discriminatory act; and
(B)
advise Federal employees of the rights and protections available under the provisions of law covered by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 201(a).
.
(d)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Electronic format requirement
(A)
In general
Section 203(a) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i)
by inserting
Homeland Security and
before
Governmental Affairs
;
(ii)
by striking
on Government Reform
and inserting
on Oversight and Reform
;
(iii)
by inserting
any Member of Congress (upon request to the agency),
before
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
; and
(iv)
by inserting
(in an electronic format prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management),
after
an annual report
.
(B)
Effective date
The amendment made by subparagraph (A)(iii) shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
(C)
Transition period
Notwithstanding the requirements of section 203(a) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note), the report required under such section 203(a) may be submitted in an electronic format, as prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on the effective date in subparagraph (B).
(2)
Reporting requirement for disciplinary action
Section 203 of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Disciplinary action report
Not later than 120 days after the date on which a Federal agency takes final action, or a Federal agency receives a final decision issued by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, involving a finding of discrimination (including retaliation) in violation of a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a), as applicable, the applicable Federal agency shall submit to the Commission a report stating—
(1)
whether disciplinary action has been proposed against a Federal employee as a result of the violation; and
(2)
the reasons for any disciplinary action proposed under paragraph (1).
.
(e)
Data to be posted by employing Federal agencies
Section 301(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (9)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting
, and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
with respect to each finding described in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
the date of the finding,
(ii)
the affected Federal agency,
(iii)
the law violated, and
(iv)
whether a decision has been made regarding disciplinary action as a result of the finding.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(11)
Data regarding each class action complaint filed against the agency alleging discrimination (including retaliation), including—
(A)
information regarding the date on which each complaint was filed,
(B)
a general summary of the allegations alleged in the complaint,
(C)
an estimate of the total number of plaintiffs joined in the complaint, if known,
(D)
the current status of the complaint, including whether the class has been certified, and
(E)
the case numbers for the civil actions in which discrimination (including retaliation) has been found.
.
(f)
Data to be posted by the equal employment opportunity commission
Section 302(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by striking
(10)
and inserting
(11)
.
(g)
Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 amendments
(1)
Notification requirements
Title II of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
207.
Complaint tracking
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the
Elijah E. Cummings Federal Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2019
, each Federal agency shall establish a system to track each complaint of discrimination arising under section 2302(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, and adjudicated through the Equal Employment Opportunity process from the filing of a complaint with the Federal agency to resolution of the complaint, including whether a decision has been made regarding disciplinary action as the result of a finding of discrimination.
208.
Notation in personnel record
If a Federal agency takes an adverse action covered under section 7512 of title 5, United States Code, against a Federal employee for an act of discrimination (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a), the agency shall, after all appeals relating to that action have been exhausted, include a notation of the adverse action and the reason for the action in the personnel record of the employee.
.
(2)
Processing and Referral
The Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
IV
Processing and referral
401.
Processing and resolution of complaints
Each Federal agency shall—
(1)
be responsible for the fair and impartial processing and resolution of complaints of employment discrimination (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a); and
(2)
establish a model Equal Employment Opportunity Program that—
(A)
is not under the control, either structurally or practically, of the agency’s Office of Human Capital or Office of the General Counsel (or the equivalent);
(B)
is devoid of internal conflicts of interest and ensures fairness and inclusiveness within the agency; and
(C)
ensures the efficient and fair resolution of complaints alleging discrimination (including retaliation).
402.
No limitation on advice or counsel
Nothing in this title shall prevent a Federal agency or a subcomponent of a Federal agency, or the Department of Justice, from providing advice or counsel to employees of that agency (or subcomponent, as applicable) in the resolution of a complaint.
403.
Head of Program supervised by head of agency
The head of each Federal agency’s Equal Employment Opportunity Program shall report directly to the head of the agency.
404.
Referrals of findings of discrimination
(a)
EEOC findings of discrimination
(1)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (referred to in this section as the
Commission
) receives, or should have received, a Federal agency report required under section 203(c), the Commission may refer the matter to which the report relates to the Office of Special Counsel if the Commission determines that the Federal agency did not take appropriate action with respect to the finding that is the subject of the report.
(2)
Notifications
The Commission shall—
(A)
notify the applicable Federal agency if the Commission refers a matter to the Office of Special Counsel under paragraph (1); and
(B)
with respect to a fiscal year, include in the Annual Report of the Federal Workforce of the Commission covering that fiscal year—
(i)
the number of referrals made under paragraph (1) during that fiscal year; and
(ii)
a brief summary of each referral described in clause (i).
(b)
Referrals to special counsel
The Office of Special Counsel shall accept and review a referral from the Commission under subsection (a)(1) for purposes of pursuing disciplinary action under the authority of the Office against a Federal employee who commits an act of discrimination (including retaliation).
(c)
Notification
The Office of Special Counsel shall notify the Commission and the applicable Federal agency in a case in which—
(1)
the Office of Special Counsel pursues disciplinary action under subsection (b); and
(2)
the Federal agency imposes some form of disciplinary action against a Federal employee who commits an act of discrimination (including retaliation).
(d)
Special counsel approval
A Federal agency may not take disciplinary action against a Federal employee for an alleged act of discrimination (including retaliation) referred by the Commission under this section, except in accordance with the requirements of section 1214(f) of title 5, United States Code.
.
(3)
Conforming amendments
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (
5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended—
(A)
by inserting after the item relating to section 206 the following:
Sec. 207. Complaint tracking.
Sec. 208. Notation in personnel record.
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
Title IV—Processing and referral
Sec. 401. Processing and resolution of complaints.
Sec. 402. No limitation on advice or counsel.
Sec. 403. Head of Program supervised by head of agency.
Sec. 404. Referrals of findings of discrimination.
.
(h)
Nondisclosure agreement limitation
Section 2302(b)(13) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking
agreement does not
and inserting the following: “agreement—
(A)
does not
;
(2)
in subparagraph (A), as so designated, by inserting
or the Office of Special Counsel
after
Inspector General
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(B)
prohibits or restricts an employee or applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review any information that relates to any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection; or
.
F
Studies and Reports
6061.
Maritime security and domain awareness
(a)
Progress report on maritime security
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the steps taken since December 20, 2019, to make further use of the following mechanisms to combat IUU fishing:
(A)
Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in existing shiprider agreements to which the United States is a party.
(B)
Entry into shiprider agreements that include counter-IUU fishing with priority flag states and countries in priority regions with which the United States does not already have such agreements.
(C)
Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in the mission of the Combined Maritime Forces.
(D)
Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing exercises in the annual at-sea exercises conducted by the Department of Defense, in coordination with the United States Coast Guard.
(E)
Development of partnerships similar to the Oceania Maritime Security Initiative and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement Partnership in other priority regions.
(2)
Element
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include a description of specific steps taken by the Secretary of the Navy with respect to each mechanism described in paragraph (1), including a detailed description of any security cooperation engagement undertaken to combat IUU fishing by such mechanisms and resulting coordination between the Department of the Navy and the Coast Guard.
(b)
Assessment of service coordination on maritime domain awareness
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, to assess the available commercial solutions for collecting, sharing, and disseminating among United States maritime services and partner countries maritime domain awareness information relating to illegal maritime activities, including IUU fishing.
(2)
Elements
The assessment carried out pursuant to an agreement under paragraph (1) shall—
(A)
build on the ongoing Coast Guard assessment related to autonomous vehicles;
(B)
consider appropriate commercially and academically available technological solutions; and
(C)
consider any limitation related to affordability, exportability, maintenance, and sustainment requirements and any other factor that may constrain the suitability of such solutions for use in a joint and combined environment, including the potential provision of such solutions to one or more partner countries.
(3)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than one year after entering into an agreement under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives the assessment prepared in accordance with the agreement.
(c)
Report on use of fishing fleets by foreign governments
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Naval Intelligence shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on the use by governments of foreign countries of distant-water fishing fleets as extensions of the official maritime security forces of such countries.
(2)
Element
The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An analysis of the manner in which fishing fleets are leveraged in support of the naval operations and policies of foreign countries more generally.
(B)
A consideration of—
(i)
threats posed, on a country-by-country basis, to the fishing vessels and other vessels of the United States and partner countries;
(ii)
risks to Navy and Coast Guard operations of the United States, and the naval and coast guard operations of partner countries; and
(iii)
the broader challenge to the interests of the United States and partner countries.
(3)
Form
The report required by paragraph (1) shall be in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Definitions
In this section, any term that is also used in the Maritime SAFE Act (
Public Law 116–92
) shall have the meaning given such term in that Act.
6062.
Report on pandemic preparedness and planning of the Navy
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing a description of the plans of the Navy to prepare for and respond to future pandemics, including future outbreaks of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19). The report shall include a written description of plans, including any necessary corresponding budgetary actions, for the following:
(1)
Efforts to prevent and mitigate the impacts of future pandemics at both private and public shipyards, and to protect the health and safety of both military personnel and civilian workers at such shipyards.
(2)
Protocol and mitigation strategies once an outbreak of a highly contagious illness occurs aboard a Navy vessel while underway.
(3)
Development and adoption of technologies and protocols to prevent and mitigate the spread of future pandemics aboard Navy ships and among Navy personnel, including technologies and protocols in connection with the following:
(A)
Artificial intelligence and data-driven infectious disease modeling and interventions.
(B)
Shipboard airflow management and disinfectant technologies.
(C)
Personal protective equipment, sensors, and diagnostic systems.
(D)
Minimally crewed and autonomous supply vehicles.
6063.
Study and report on the affordability of insulin
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, shall—
(1)
conduct a study that examines, for each type or classification of diabetes (including type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes, and other conditions causing reliance on insulin), the effect of the affordability of insulin on—
(A)
adherence to insulin prescriptions;
(B)
rates of diabetic ketoacidosis;
(C)
downstream impacts of insulin adherence, including rates of dialysis treatment and end-stage renal disease;
(D)
spending by Federal health programs on acute episodes that could have been averted by adhering to an insulin prescription; and
(E)
other factors, as appropriate, to understand the impacts of insulin affordability on health outcomes, Federal Government spending (including under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395
et seq.) and the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.)), and insured and uninsured individuals with diabetes; and
(2)
not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to Congress a report on the study conducted under paragraph (1).
G
Other Matters
6081.
Modification to First Division monument
(a)
Authorization
The Society of the First Infantry Division may make modifications to the First Division Monument located on Federal land in President's Park in the District of Columbia to honor the dead of the First Infantry Division, United States Forces, in—
(1)
Operation Desert Storm;
(2)
Operation Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn; and
(3)
Operation Enduring Freedom.
(b)
Modifications
Modifications to the First Division Monument may include construction of additional plaques and stone plinths on which to put plaques.
(c)
Applicability of commemorative works act
Chapter 89
of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the
Commemorative Works Act
), shall apply to the design and placement of the commemorative elements authorized by this section, except that subsections (b) and (c) of section 8903 shall not apply.
(d)
Collaboration
The First Infantry Division of the Department of the Army shall collaborate with the Secretary of Defense to provide to the Society of the First Infantry Division the list of names to be added to the First Division Monument in accordance with subsection (a).
(e)
Funding
Federal funds may not be used for modifications of the First Division Monument authorized by this section.
6082.
Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission Order 20–48
Section 1083 is deemed to include at the end the following:
(d)
Distribution of estimate
As soon as practicable after submitting an estimate as described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and making the certification described in paragraph (2) of such subsection, the Secretary shall make such estimate available to any licensee operating under the order and authorization described in such subsection.
(e)
Authority of secretary of defense to seek recovery of costs
The Secretary of Defense may work directly with any licensee (or any future assignee, successor, or purchaser) affected by the Order and Authorization adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–48) to seek recovery of costs incurred by the Department of Defense as a result of the effect of such order and authorization.
(f)
Reimbursement
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish and facilitate a process for any licensee (or any future assignee, successor, or purchaser) subject to the authorization and order described in subsection (a) to provide reimbursement to the Department of Defense, only to the extent provided in appropriations Acts, for the covered costs and eligible reimbursable costs submitted and certified to the congressional defense committees under such subsection.
(2)
Use of funds
The Secretary shall use any funds received under this subsection, to the extent and in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts, for covered costs described in subsection (b) and the range of eligible reimbursable costs identified under subsection (a)(1).
(3)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary establishes the process required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on such process.
(g)
Good faith
The execution of the responsibilities of this section by the Department of Defense shall be considered to be good faith actions pursuant to paragraph 104 of the Order and Authorization (FCC 20–48) described in subsection (a).
.
6083.
Diesel emissions reduction
(a)
Reauthorization of diesel emissions reduction program
Section 797(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16137(a)
) is amended by striking
2016
and inserting
2024
.
(b)
Recognizing differences in diesel vehicle, engine, equipment, and fleet use
(1)
National grant, rebate, and loan programs
Section 792(c)(4)(D) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16132(c)(4)(D)
) is amended by inserting
, recognizing differences in typical vehicle, engine, equipment, and fleet use throughout the United States
before the semicolon.
(2)
State grant, rebate, and loan programs
Section 793(b)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16133(b)(1)
) is amended—
(A)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(D)
the recognition, for purposes of implementing this section, of differences in typical vehicle, engine, equipment, and fleet use throughout the United States, including expected useful life; and
.
(c)
Reallocation of unused state funds
Section 793(c)(2)(C) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16133(c)(2)(C)
) is amended beginning in the matter preceding clause (i) by striking
to each remaining
and all that follows through
this paragraph
in clause (ii) and inserting
to carry out section 792
.
6084.
Utilizing significant emissions with innovative technologies
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Utilizing Significant Emissions with Innovative Technologies Act
or the
USE IT Act
.
(b)
Research, investigation, training, and other activities
Section 103 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7403
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(3), in the first sentence of the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
percursors
and inserting
precursors
; and
(2)
in subsection (g)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and indenting appropriately;
(B)
in the undesignated matter following subparagraph (D) (as so redesignated)—
(i)
in the second sentence, by striking
The Administrator
and inserting the following:
(5)
Coordination and avoidance of duplication
The Administrator
; and
(ii)
in the first sentence, by striking
Nothing
and inserting the following:
(4)
Effect of subsection
Nothing
;
(C)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated)—
(i)
in the third sentence, by striking
Such program
and inserting the following:
(3)
Program inclusions
The program under this subsection
;
(ii)
in the second sentence—
(I)
by inserting
States, institutions of higher education,
after
scientists,
; and
(II)
by striking
Such strategies and technologies shall be developed
and inserting the following:
(2)
Participation requirement
Such strategies and technologies described in paragraph (1) shall be developed
; and
(iii)
in the first sentence, by striking
In carrying out
and inserting the following:
(1)
In general
In carrying out
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Certain carbon dioxide activities
(A)
In general
In carrying out paragraph (3)(A) with respect to carbon dioxide, the Administrator shall carry out the activities described in each of subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E).
(B)
Direct air capture research
(i)
Definitions
In this subparagraph:
(I)
Board
The term
Board
means the Direct Air Capture Technology Advisory Board established by clause (iii)(I).
(II)
Dilute
The term
dilute
means a concentration of less than 1 percent by volume.
(III)
Direct air capture
(aa)
In general
The term
direct air capture
, with respect to a facility, technology, or system, means that the facility, technology, or system uses carbon capture equipment to capture carbon dioxide directly from the air.
(bb)
Exclusion
The term
direct air capture
does not include any facility, technology, or system that captures carbon dioxide—
(AA)
that is deliberately released from a naturally occurring subsurface spring; or
(BB)
using natural photosynthesis.
(IV)
Intellectual property
The term
intellectual property
means—
(aa)
an invention that is patentable under title 35, United States Code; and
(bb)
any patent on an invention described in item (aa).
(ii)
Technology prizes
(I)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act
, the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a program to provide, and shall provide, financial awards on a competitive basis for direct air capture from media in which the concentration of carbon dioxide is dilute.
(II)
Duties
In carrying out this clause, the Administrator shall—
(aa)
subject to subclause (III), develop specific requirements for—
(AA)
the competition process; and
(BB)
the demonstration of performance of approved projects;
(bb)
offer financial awards for a project designed—
(AA)
to the maximum extent practicable, to capture more than 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide per year; and
(BB)
to operate in a manner that would be commercially viable in the foreseeable future (as determined by the Board); and
(cc)
to the maximum extent practicable, make financial awards to geographically diverse projects, including at least—
(AA)
1 project in a coastal State; and
(BB)
1 project in a rural State.
(III)
Public participation
In carrying out subclause (II)(aa), the Administrator shall—
(aa)
provide notice of and, for a period of not less than 60 days, an opportunity for public comment on, any draft or proposed version of the requirements described in subclause (II)(aa); and
(bb)
take into account public comments received in developing the final version of those requirements.
(iii)
Direct air capture technology advisory board
(I)
Establishment
There is established an advisory board to be known as the
Direct Air Capture Technology Advisory Board
.
(II)
Composition
The Board shall be composed of 9 members appointed by the Administrator, who shall provide expertise in—
(aa)
climate science;
(bb)
physics;
(cc)
chemistry;
(dd)
biology;
(ee)
engineering;
(ff)
economics;
(gg)
business management; and
(hh)
such other disciplines as the Administrator determines to be necessary to achieve the purposes of this subparagraph.
(III)
Term; vacancies
(aa)
Term
A member of the Board shall serve for a term of 6 years.
(bb)
Vacancies
A vacancy on the Board—
(AA)
shall not affect the powers of the Board; and
(BB)
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
(IV)
Initial meeting
Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Board have been appointed, the Board shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
(V)
Meetings
The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or on the request of the Administrator.
(VI)
Quorum
A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
(VII)
Chairperson and vice chairperson
The Board shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Board.
(VIII)
Compensation
Each member of the Board may be compensated at not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, for each day during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Board.
(IX)
Duties
The Board shall advise the Administrator on carrying out the duties of the Administrator under this subparagraph.
(X)
FACA
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Board.
(iv)
Intellectual property
(I)
In general
As a condition of receiving a financial award under this subparagraph, an applicant shall agree to vest the intellectual property of the applicant derived from the technology in 1 or more entities that are incorporated in the United States.
(II)
Reservation of license
The United States—
(aa)
may reserve a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license, to have practiced for or on behalf of the United States, in connection with any intellectual property described in subclause (I); but
(bb)
shall not, in the exercise of a license reserved under item (aa), publicly disclose proprietary information relating to the license.
(III)
Transfer of title
Title to any intellectual property described in subclause (I) shall not be transferred or passed, except to an entity that is incorporated in the United States, until the expiration of the first patent obtained in connection with the intellectual property.
(v)
Authorization of appropriations
(I)
In general
Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Environmental Protection Agency, $35,000,000 shall be available to carry out this subparagraph, to remain available until expended.
(II)
Requirement
Research carried out using amounts made available under subclause (I) may not duplicate research funded by the Department of Energy.
(vi)
Termination of authority
The Board and all authority provided under this subparagraph shall terminate not later than 10 years after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act
.
(C)
Carbon dioxide utilization research
(i)
Definition of carbon dioxide utilization
In this subparagraph, the term
carbon dioxide utilization
refers to technologies or approaches that lead to the use of carbon dioxide—
(I)
through the fixation of carbon dioxide through photosynthesis or chemosynthesis, such as through the growing of algae or bacteria;
(II)
through the chemical conversion of carbon dioxide to a material or chemical compound in which the carbon dioxide is securely stored; or
(III)
through the use of carbon dioxide for any other purpose for which a commercial market exists, as determined by the Administrator.
(ii)
Program
The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall carry out a research and development program for carbon dioxide utilization to promote existing and new technologies that transform carbon dioxide generated by industrial processes into a product of commercial value, or as an input to products of commercial value.
(iii)
Technical and financial assistance
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act
, in carrying out this subsection, the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall support research and infrastructure activities relating to carbon dioxide utilization by providing technical assistance and financial assistance in accordance with clause (iv).
(iv)
Eligibility
To be eligible to receive technical assistance and financial assistance under clause (iii), a carbon dioxide utilization project shall—
(I)
have access to an emissions stream generated by a stationary source within the United States that is capable of supplying not less than 250 metric tons per day of carbon dioxide for research;
(II)
have access to adequate space for a laboratory and equipment for testing small-scale carbon dioxide utilization technologies, with onsite access to larger test bays for scale-up; and
(III)
have existing partnerships with institutions of higher education, private companies, States, or other government entities.
(v)
Coordination
In supporting carbon dioxide utilization projects under this paragraph, the Administrator shall consult with the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, with the head of any other relevant Federal agency, States, the private sector, and institutions of higher education to develop methods and technologies to account for the carbon dioxide emissions avoided by the carbon dioxide utilization projects.
(vi)
Authorization of appropriations
(I)
In general
Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Environmental Protection Agency, $50,000,000 shall be available to carry out this subparagraph, to remain available until expended.
(II)
Requirement
Research carried out using amounts made available under subclause (I) may not duplicate research funded by the Department of Energy.
(D)
Deep saline formation report
(i)
Definition of deep saline formation
(I)
In general
In this subparagraph, the term
deep saline formation
means a formation of subsurface geographically extensive sedimentary rock layers saturated with waters or brines that have a high total dissolved solids content and that are below the depth where carbon dioxide can exist in the formation as a supercritical fluid.
(II)
Clarification
In this subparagraph, the term
deep saline formation
does not include oil and gas reservoirs.
(ii)
Report
In consultation with the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, with the head of any other relevant Federal agency and relevant stakeholders, not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act
, the Administrator shall prepare, submit to Congress, and make publicly available a report that includes—
(I)
a comprehensive identification of potential risks and benefits to project developers associated with increased storage of carbon dioxide captured from stationary sources in deep saline formations, using existing research;
(II)
recommendations, if any, for managing the potential risks identified under subclause (I), including potential risks unique to public land; and
(III)
recommendations, if any, for Federal legislation or other policy changes to mitigate any potential risks identified under subclause (I).
(E)
Report on carbon dioxide nonregulatory strategies and technologies
(i)
In general
Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes—
(I)
the recipients of assistance under subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
(II)
a plan for supporting additional nonregulatory strategies and technologies that could significantly prevent carbon dioxide emissions or reduce carbon dioxide levels in the air, in conjunction with other Federal agencies.
(ii)
Inclusions
The plan submitted under clause (i) shall include—
(I)
a methodology for evaluating and ranking technologies based on the ability of the technologies to cost effectively reduce carbon dioxide emissions or carbon dioxide levels in the air; and
(II)
a description of any nonair-related environmental or energy considerations regarding the technologies.
(F)
GAO report
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that—
(i)
identifies all Federal grant programs in which a purpose of a grant under the program is to perform research on carbon capture and utilization technologies, including direct air capture technologies; and
(ii)
examines the extent to which the Federal grant programs identified pursuant to clause (i) overlap or are duplicative.
.
(c)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (referred to in this section as the
Administrator
) shall submit to Congress a report describing how funds appropriated to the Administrator during the 5 most recent fiscal years have been used to carry out section 103 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7403
), including a description of—
(1)
the amount of funds used to carry out specific provisions of that section; and
(2)
the practices used by the Administrator to differentiate funding used to carry out that section, as compared to funding used to carry out other provisions of law.
(d)
Inclusion of carbon capture infrastructure projects
Section 41001(6) of the FAST Act (
42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A)—
(A)
in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting
carbon capture,
after
manufacturing,
;
(B)
in clause (i)(III), by striking
or
at the end;
(C)
by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
(D)
by inserting after clause (i) the following:
(ii)
is covered by a programmatic plan or environmental review developed for the primary purpose of facilitating development of carbon dioxide pipelines; or
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Inclusion
For purposes of subparagraph (A), construction of infrastructure for carbon capture includes construction of—
(i)
any facility, technology, or system that captures, utilizes, or sequesters carbon dioxide emissions, including projects for direct air capture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7403(g)
); and
(ii)
carbon dioxide pipelines.
.
(e)
Development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration report, permitting guidance, and regional permitting task force
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects
The term
carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects
includes projects for direct air capture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7403(g)
)).
(B)
Efficient, orderly, and responsible
The term
efficient, orderly, and responsible
means, with respect to development or the permitting process for carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, a process that is completed in an expeditious manner while maintaining environmental, health, and safety protections.
(2)
Report
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (referred to in this section as the
Chair
), in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting Improvement Council, and the head of any other relevant Federal agency (as determined by the President), shall prepare a report that—
(i)
compiles all existing relevant Federal permitting and review information and resources for project applicants, agencies, and other stakeholders interested in the deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, including—
(I)
the appropriate points of interaction with Federal agencies;
(II)
clarification of the permitting responsibilities and authorities among Federal agencies; and
(III)
best practices and templates for permitting;
(ii)
inventories current or emerging activities that transform captured carbon dioxide into a product of commercial value, or as an input to products of commercial value;
(iii)
inventories existing initiatives and recent publications that analyze or identify priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly, and responsible development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects at increased scale;
(iv)
identifies gaps in the current Federal regulatory framework for the deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines; and
(v)
identifies Federal financing mechanisms available to project developers.
(B)
Submission; publication
The Chair shall—
(i)
submit the report under subparagraph (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(ii)
as soon as practicable, make the report publicly available.
(3)
Guidance
(A)
In general
After submission of the report under paragraph (2)(B), but not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall submit guidance consistent with that report to all relevant Federal agencies that—
(i)
facilitates reviews associated with the deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines; and
(ii)
supports the efficient, orderly, and responsible development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B)
Requirements
(i)
In general
The guidance under subparagraph (A) shall address requirements under—
(I)
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.);
(II)
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.);
(III)
the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.);
(IV)
the Safe Drinking Water Act (
42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.);
(V)
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.);
(VI)
division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code (formerly known as the
National Historic Preservation Act
);
(VII)
the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (
16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.);
(VIII)
the Act of June 8, 1940 (
16 U.S.C. 668
et seq.) (commonly known as the
Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act
); and
(IX)
any other Federal law that the Chair determines to be appropriate.
(ii)
Environmental reviews
The guidance under subparagraph (A) shall include direction to States and other interested parties for the development of programmatic environmental reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) for carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
(iii)
Public involvement
The guidance under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the public notice, comment, and solicitation of information procedures under section 1506.6 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
(C)
Submission; publication
The Chair shall—
(i)
submit the guidance under subparagraph (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(ii)
as soon as practicable, make the guidance publicly available.
(D)
Evaluation
The Chair shall—
(i)
periodically evaluate the reports of the task forces under paragraph (4)(E) and, as necessary, revise the guidance under subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
each year, submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and relevant Federal agencies a report that describes any recommendations for legislation, rules, revisions to rules, or other policies that would address the issues identified by the task forces under paragraph (4)(E).
(4)
Task force
(A)
Establishment
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall establish not less than 2 task forces, which shall each cover a different geographical area with differing demographic, land use, or geological issues—
(i)
to identify permitting and other challenges and successes that permitting authorities and project developers and operators face; and
(ii)
to improve the performance of the permitting process and regional coordination for the purpose of promoting the efficient, orderly, and responsible development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B)
Members and selection
(i)
In general
The Chair shall—
(I)
develop criteria for the selection of members to each task force; and
(II)
select members for each task force in accordance with subclause (I) and clause (ii).
(ii)
Members
Each task force—
(I)
shall include not less than 1 representative of each of—
(aa)
the Environmental Protection Agency;
(bb)
the Department of Energy;
(cc)
the Department of the Interior;
(dd)
any other Federal agency the Chair determines to be appropriate;
(ee)
any State that requests participation in the geographical area covered by the task force;
(ff)
developers or operators of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects or carbon dioxide pipelines; and
(gg)
nongovernmental membership organizations, the primary mission of which concerns protection of the environment; and
(II)
at the request of a Tribal or local government, may include a representative of—
(aa)
not less than 1 local government in the geographical area covered by the task force; and
(bb)
not less than 1 Tribal government in the geographical area covered by the task force.
(C)
Meetings
(i)
In general
Each task force shall meet not less than twice each year.
(ii)
Joint meeting
To the maximum extent practicable, the task forces shall meet collectively not less than once each year.
(D)
Duties
Each task force shall—
(i)
inventory existing or potential Federal and State approaches to facilitate reviews associated with the deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, including best practices that—
(I)
avoid duplicative reviews;
(II)
engage stakeholders early in the permitting process; and
(III)
make the permitting process efficient, orderly, and responsible;
(ii)
develop common models for State-level carbon dioxide pipeline regulation and oversight guidelines that can be shared with States in the geographical area covered by the task force;
(iii)
provide technical assistance to States in the geographical area covered by the task force in implementing regulatory requirements and any models developed under clause (ii);
(iv)
inventory current or emerging activities that transform captured carbon dioxide into a product of commercial value, or as an input to products of commercial value;
(v)
identify any priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly, and responsible development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects at increased scale;
(vi)
identify gaps in the current Federal and State regulatory framework and in existing data for the deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipelines;
(vii)
identify Federal and State financing mechanisms available to project developers; and
(viii)
develop recommendations for relevant Federal agencies on how to develop and research technologies that—
(I)
can capture carbon dioxide; and
(II)
would be able to be deployed within the region covered by the task force, including any projects that have received technical or financial assistance for research under paragraph (6) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7403(g)
).
(E)
Report
Each year, each task force shall prepare and submit to the Chair and to the other task forces a report that includes—
(i)
any recommendations for improvements in efficient, orderly, and responsible issuance or administration of Federal permits and other Federal authorizations required under a law described in paragraph (3)(B)(i); and
(ii)
any other nationally relevant information that the task force has collected in carrying out the duties under subparagraph (D).
(F)
Evaluation
Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall—
(i)
reevaluate the need for the task forces; and
(ii)
submit to Congress a recommendation as to whether the task forces should continue.
6085.
Legal assistance for veterans and surviving spouses and dependents
(a)
Availability of legal assistance at facilities of Department of Veterans Affairs
(1)
In general
Chapter 59
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
5906.
Availability of legal assistance at Department facilities
(a)
In general
Not less frequently than three times each year, the Secretary shall facilitate the provision by a qualified legal assistance clinic of pro bono legal assistance described in subsection (c) to eligible individuals at not fewer than one medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or such other facility of the Department as the Secretary considers appropriate, in each State.
(b)
Eligible individuals
For purposes of this section, an eligible individual is—
(1)
any veteran;
(2)
any surviving spouse; or
(3)
any child of a veteran who has died.
(c)
Pro bono legal assistance described
The pro bono legal assistance described in this subsection is the following:
(1)
Legal assistance with any program administered by the Secretary.
(2)
Legal assistance associated with—
(A)
improving the status of a military discharge or characterization of service in the Armed Forces, including through a discharge review board; or
(B)
seeking a review of a military record before a board of correction for military or naval records.
(3)
Such other legal assistance as the Secretary—
(A)
considers appropriate; and
(B)
determines may be needed by eligible individuals.
(d)
Limitation on use of facilities
Space in a medical center or facility designated under subsection (a) shall be reserved for and may only be used by the following, subject to review and removal from participation by the Secretary:
(1)
A veterans service organization or other nonprofit organization.
(2)
A legal assistance clinic associated with an accredited law school.
(3)
A legal services organization.
(4)
A bar association.
(5)
Such other attorneys and entities as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(e)
Legal assistance in rural areas
In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall ensure that pro bono legal assistance is provided under subsection (a) in rural areas.
(f)
Definition of veterans service organization
The term
veterans service organization
means any organization recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of this title.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 59 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
5906. Availability of legal assistance at Department facilities.
.
(b)
Pilot program to establish and support legal assistance clinics
(1)
Pilot program required
(A)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of awarding grants to eligible entities to establish new legal assistance clinics, or enhance existing legal assistance clinics or other pro bono efforts, for the provision of pro bono legal assistance described in subsection (c) of section 5906 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), on a year-round basis to individuals who served in the Armed Forces, including individuals who served in a reserve component of the Armed Forces, and who were discharged or released therefrom, regardless of the conditions of such discharge or release, at locations other than medical centers and facilities described in subsection (a) of such section.
(B)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be construed to limit or affect—
(i)
the provision of pro bono legal assistance to eligible individuals at medical centers and facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 5906(a) of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a); or
(ii)
any other legal assistance provided pro bono at medical centers or facilities of the Department as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Eligible entities
For purposes of the pilot program, an eligible entity is—
(A)
a veterans service organization or other nonprofit organization specifically focused on assisting veterans;
(B)
an entity specifically focused on assisting veterans and associated with an accredited law school;
(C)
a legal services organization or bar association; or
(D)
such other type of entity as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the pilot program.
(3)
Locations
The Secretary shall ensure that at least one grant is awarded under paragraph (1)(A) to at least one eligible entity in each State, if the Secretary determines that there is such an entity in a State that has applied for, and meets requirements for the award of, such a grant.
(4)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program during the five-year period beginning on the date on which the Secretary establishes the pilot program.
(5)
Application
An eligible entity seeking a grant under the pilot program shall submit to the Secretary an application therefore at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(6)
Selection
The Secretary shall select eligible entities who submit applications under paragraph (5) for the award of grants under the pilot program using a competitive process that takes into account the following:
(A)
Capacity of the applicant entity to serve veterans and ability of the entity to provide sound legal advice.
(B)
Demonstrated need of the veteran population the applicant entity would serve.
(C)
Demonstrated need of the applicant entity for assistance from the grants.
(D)
Geographic diversity of applicant entities.
(E)
Such other criteria as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(7)
Grantee reports
Each recipient of a grant under the pilot program shall, in accordance with such criteria as the Secretary may establish, submit to the Secretary a report on the activities of the recipient and how the grant amounts were used.
(c)
Review of pro bono eligibility of Federal workers
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, conduct a review of the rules and regulations governing the circumstances under which attorneys employed by the Federal Government can provide pro bono legal assistance.
(2)
Recommendations
In conducting the review required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall develop recommendations for such legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate greater participation by Federal employees in pro bono legal and other volunteer services for veterans.
(3)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress—
(A)
the findings of the Secretary with respect to the review conducted under paragraph (1); and
(B)
the recommendations developed by the Secretary under paragraph (2).
(d)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the status of the implementation of this section.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Veterans service organization
The term
veterans service organization
means any organization recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
6086.
Silver Star Service Banner Day
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Congress is committed to honoring the sacrifices of wounded and ill members of the Armed Forces.
(2)
The Silver Star Service Banner recognizes the members of the Armed Forces and veterans who were wounded or became ill while serving in combat for the United States.
(3)
The sacrifices made by members of the Armed Forces and veterans on behalf of the United States should never be forgotten.
(4)
May 1 is an appropriate date to designate as
Silver Star Service Banner Day
.
(b)
Designation
(1)
In general
Chapter 1
of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
146.
Silver Star Service Banner Day
(a)
Designation
May 1 is Silver Star Service Banner Day.
(b)
Proclamation
The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe Silver Star Service Banner Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 145 the following:
146. Silver Star Service Banner Day.
.
6087.
Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research
Section 2203(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (
42 U.S.C. 13503(b)
) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
(3)
Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research
(A)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Eligible jurisdiction
The term
eligible jurisdiction
means a State that is determined to be eligible for a grant under this paragraph in accordance with subparagraph (D).
(ii)
EPSCoR
The term
EPSCoR
means the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research operated under subparagraph (B).
(iii)
National Laboratory
The term
National Laboratory
has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15801
).
(iv)
State
The term
State
means—
(I)
a State;
(II)
the District of Columbia;
(III)
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(IV)
Guam; and
(V)
the United States Virgin Islands.
(B)
Program operation
The Secretary shall operate an Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.
(C)
Objectives
The objectives of EPSCoR shall be—
(i)
to increase the number of researchers in eligible jurisdictions, especially at institutions of higher education, capable of performing nationally competitive science and engineering research in support of the mission of the Department of Energy in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science;
(ii)
to improve science and engineering research and education programs at institutions of higher education in eligible jurisdictions and enhance the capabilities of eligible jurisdictions to develop, plan, and execute research that is competitive, including through investing in research equipment and instrumentation; and
(iii)
to increase the probability of long-term growth of competitive funding to eligible jurisdictions.
(D)
Eligible jurisdictions
(i)
In general
The Secretary may establish criteria for determining whether a State is eligible for a grant under this paragraph.
(ii)
Requirement
Except as provided in clause (iii), in establishing criteria under clause (i), the Secretary shall ensure that a State is eligible for a grant under this paragraph if the State, as determined by the Secretary, is a State that—
(I)
historically has received relatively little Federal research and development funding; and
(II)
has demonstrated a commitment—
(aa)
to develop the research bases in the State; and
(bb)
to improve science and engineering research and education programs at institutions of higher education in the State.
(iii)
Eligibility under NSF EPSCoR
At the election of the Secretary, or if the Secretary determines not to establish criteria under clause (i), a State is eligible for a grant under this paragraph if the State is eligible to receive funding under the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research of the National Science Foundation.
(E)
Grants in areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science
(i)
In general
EPSCoR shall make grants to eligible jurisdictions to carry out and support applied energy research and research in all areas of environmental management and basic science sponsored by the Department of Energy, including—
(I)
energy efficiency, fossil energy, renewable energy, and other applied energy research;
(II)
electricity delivery research;
(III)
cybersecurity, energy security, and emergency response;
(IV)
environmental management; and
(V)
basic science research.
(ii)
Activities
EPSCoR shall make grants under this subparagraph for activities consistent with the objectives described in subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science described in clause (i), including—
(I)
to support research that is carried out in partnership with the National Laboratories;
(II)
to provide for graduate traineeships;
(III)
to support research by early career faculty; and
(IV)
to improve research capabilities through biennial research implementation grants.
(iii)
No cost sharing
EPSCoR shall not impose any cost-sharing requirement with respect to a grant made under this subparagraph, but may require letters of commitment from National Laboratories.
(F)
Other activities
EPSCoR may carry out such activities as may be necessary to meet the objectives described in subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science described in subparagraph (E)(i).
(G)
Program implementation
(i)
In general
Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Appropriations of the House of Representatives a plan describing how the Secretary shall implement EPSCoR.
(ii)
Contents of plan
The plan described in clause (i) shall include a description of—
(I)
the management structure of EPSCoR, which shall ensure that all research areas and activities described in this paragraph are incorporated into EPSCoR;
(II)
efforts to conduct outreach to inform eligible jurisdictions and faculty of changes to, and opportunities under, EPSCoR;
(III)
how EPSCoR plans to increase engagement with eligible jurisdictions, faculty, and State committees, including by holding regular workshops, to increase participation in EPSCoR; and
(IV)
any other issues relating to EPSCoR that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(H)
Program evaluation
(i)
In general
Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
, the Secretary shall contract with a federally funded research and development center, the National Academy of Sciences, or a similar organization to carry out an assessment of the effectiveness of EPSCoR, including an assessment of—
(I)
the tangible progress made towards achieving the objectives described in subparagraph (C);
(II)
the impact of research supported by EPSCoR on the mission of the Department of Energy; and
(III)
any other issues relating to EPSCoR that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(ii)
Limitation
The organization with which the Secretary contracts under clause (i) shall not be a National Laboratory.
(iii)
Report
Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report describing the results of the assessment carried out under clause (i), including recommendations for improvements that would enable the Secretary to achieve the objectives described in subparagraph (C).
.
6088.
Subpoena authority
(a)
In general
Section 2209 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 659
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a)—
(A)
in paragraph (5), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
(C)
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
(6)
the term
security vulnerability
has the meaning given that term in section 102(17) of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (
6 U.S.C. 1501(17)
); and
;
(2)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (10), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in paragraph (11), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(12)
detecting, identifying, and receiving information about security vulnerabilities relating to critical infrastructure in the information systems and devices for a cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (
6 U.S.C. 1501
).
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(o)
Subpoena authority
(1)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
covered device or system
—
(A)
means a device or system commonly used to perform industrial, commercial, scientific, or governmental functions or processes that relate to critical infrastructure, including operational and industrial control systems, distributed control systems, and programmable logic controllers; and
(B)
does not include personal devices and systems, such as consumer mobile devices, home computers, residential wireless routers, or residential internet enabled consumer devices.
(2)
Authority
(A)
In general
If the Director identifies a system connected to the internet with a specific security vulnerability and has reason to believe that the security vulnerability relates to critical infrastructure and affects a covered device or system, and the Director is unable to identify the entity at risk that owns or operates the covered device or system, the Director may issue a subpoena for the production of information necessary to identify and notify the entity at risk, in order to carry out a function authorized under subsection (c)(12).
(B)
Limit on information
A subpoena issued under the authority under subparagraph (A) may seek information—
(i)
only in the categories set forth in subparagraphs (A), (B), (D), and (E) of section 2703(c)(2) of title 18, United States Code; and
(ii)
for not more than 20 covered devices or systems.
(C)
Liability protections for disclosing providers
The provisions of section 2703(e) of title 18, United States Code, shall apply to any subpoena issued under the authority under subparagraph (A).
(3)
Coordination
(A)
In general
If the Director decides to exercise the subpoena authority under this subsection, and in the interest of avoiding interference with ongoing law enforcement investigations, the Director shall coordinate the issuance of any such subpoena with the Department of Justice, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, pursuant to inter-agency procedures which the Director, in coordination with the Attorney General, shall develop not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this subsection.
(B)
Contents
The inter-agency procedures developed under this paragraph shall provide that a subpoena issued by the Director under this subsection shall be—
(i)
issued in order to carry out a function described in subsection (c)(12); and
(ii)
subject to the limitations under this subsection.
(4)
Noncompliance
If any person, partnership, corporation, association, or entity fails to comply with any duly served subpoena issued under this subsection, the Director may request that the Attorney General seek enforcement of the subpoena in any judicial district in which such person, partnership, corporation, association, or entity resides, is found, or transacts business.
(5)
Notice
Not later than 7 days after the date on which the Director receives information obtained through a subpoena issued under this subsection, the Director shall notify any entity identified by information obtained under the subpoena regarding the subpoena and the identified vulnerability.
(6)
Authentication
(A)
In general
Any subpoena issued by the Director under this subsection shall be authenticated with a cryptographic digital signature of an authorized representative of the Agency, or other comparable successor technology, that allows the Agency to demonstrate that the subpoena was issued by the Agency and has not been altered or modified since it was issued by the Agency.
(B)
Invalid if not authenticated
Any subpoena issued by the Director under this subsection that is not authenticated in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall not be considered to be valid by the recipient of the subpoena.
(7)
Procedures
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Director shall establish internal procedures and associated training, applicable to employees and operations of the Agency, regarding subpoenas issued under this subsection, which shall address—
(A)
the protection of and restriction on dissemination of nonpublic information obtained through a subpoena issued under this subsection, including a requirement that the Agency shall not disseminate nonpublic information obtained through a subpoena issued under this subsection that identifies the party that is subject to the subpoena or the entity at risk identified by information obtained, except that the Agency may share the nonpublic information of the entity at risk with another the Department of Justice for the purpose of enforcing the subpoena in accordance with paragraph (4) or with a Federal agency if—
(i)
the Agency identifies or is notified of a cybersecurity incident involving the entity, which relates to the vulnerability which led to the issuance of the subpoena;
(ii)
the Director determines that sharing the nonpublic information with another Federal agency is necessary to allow that Federal agency to take a law enforcement or national security action, subject to the interagency procedures under paragraph (3)(A), or actions related to mitigating or otherwise resolving such incident;
(iii)
the entity to which the information pertains is notified of the Director’s determination, to the extent practicable consistent with national security or law enforcement interests, subject to the interagency procedures under paragraph (3)(A); and
(iv)
the entity consents, except that the entity’s consent shall not be required if another Federal agency identifies the entity to the Agency in connection with a suspected cybersecurity incident;
(B)
the restriction on the use of information obtained through the subpoena for a cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (
6 U.S.C. 1501
);
(C)
the retention and destruction of nonpublic information obtained through a subpoena issued under this subsection, including—
(i)
destruction of information obtained through the subpoena that the Director determines is unrelated to critical infrastructure immediately upon providing notice to the entity pursuant to paragraph (5); and
(ii)
destruction of any personally identifiable information not later than 6 months after the date on which the Director receives information obtained through the subpoena, unless otherwise agreed to by the individual identified by the subpoena respondent;
(D)
the processes for providing notice to each party that is subject to the subpoena and each entity identified by information obtained under a subpoena issued under this subsection;
(E)
the processes and criteria for conducting critical infrastructure security risk assessments to determine whether a subpoena is necessary prior to being issued under this subsection; and
(F)
the information to be provided to an entity at risk at the time of the notice of the vulnerability, which shall include—
(i)
a discussion or statement that responding to, or subsequent engagement with, the Agency, is voluntary; and
(ii)
to the extent practicable, information regarding the process through which the Director identifies security vulnerabilities.
(8)
Limitation on procedures
The internal procedures established under paragraph (7) may not require an owner or operator of critical infrastructure to take any action as a result of a notice of vulnerability made pursuant to this Act.
(9)
Review of procedures
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Privacy Officer of the Agency shall—
(A)
review the procedures developed by the Director under paragraph (7) to ensure that—
(i)
the procedures are consistent with fair information practices; and
(ii)
the operations of the Agency comply with the procedures; and
(B)
notify the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives of the results of the review.
(10)
Publication of information
Not later than 120 days after establishing the internal procedures under paragraph (7), the Director shall publish information on the website of the Agency regarding the subpoena process under this subsection, including regarding—
(A)
the purpose for subpoenas issued under this subsection;
(B)
the subpoena process;
(C)
the criteria for the critical infrastructure security risk assessment conducted prior to issuing a subpoena;
(D)
policies and procedures on retention and sharing of data obtained by subpoena;
(E)
guidelines on how entities contacted by the Director may respond to notice of a subpoena; and
(F)
the procedures and policies of the Agency developed under paragraph (7).
(11)
Annual reports
The Director shall annually submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report (which may include a classified annex but with the presumption of declassification) on the use of subpoenas under this subsection by the Director, which shall include—
(A)
a discussion of—
(i)
the effectiveness of the use of subpoenas to mitigate critical infrastructure security vulnerabilities;
(ii)
the critical infrastructure security risk assessment process conducted for subpoenas issued under this subsection;
(iii)
the number of subpoenas issued under this subsection by the Director during the preceding year;
(iv)
to the extent practicable, the number of vulnerable covered devices or systems mitigated under this subsection by the Agency during the preceding year; and
(v)
the number of entities notified by the Director under this subsection, and their response, during the previous year; and
(B)
for each subpoena issued under this subsection—
(i)
the source of the security vulnerability detected, identified, or received by the Director;
(ii)
the steps taken to identify the entity at risk prior to issuing the subpoena; and
(iii)
a description of the outcome of the subpoena, including discussion on the resolution or mitigation of the critical infrastructure security vulnerability.
(12)
Publication of the annual reports
The Director shall publish a version of the annual report required by paragraph (11) on the website of the Agency, which shall, at a minimum, include the findings described in clauses (iii), (iv) and (v) of paragraph (11)(A).
(13)
Prohibition on use of information for unauthorized purposes
Any information obtained pursuant to a subpoena issued under this subsection shall not be provided to any other Federal agency for any purpose other than a cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (
6 U.S.C. 1501
) or for the purpose of enforcing a subpoena under paragraph (4).
.
(b)
Rules of construction
(1)
Prohibition on new regulatory authority
Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to grant the Secretary of Homeland Security (in this subsection referred to as the
Secretary
), or another Federal agency, any authority to promulgate regulations or set standards relating to the cybersecurity of private sector critical infrastructure that was not in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
Private entities
Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to require any private entity—
(A)
toto request assistance from the Secretary; or
(B)
that requested such assistance from the Secretary to implement any measure or recommendation suggested by the Secretary.
6089.
Thad Cochran headquarters building
(a)
In general
The headquarters building of the Engineer Research and Development Center of the Corps of Engineers located at 3909 Halls Ferry Road in Vicksburg, Mississippi, shall be known and designated as the
Thad Cochran Headquarters Building
.
(b)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the
Thad Cochran Headquarters Building
.
6090.
Comptroller General of the United States report on handling by Department of Veterans Affairs of disability-related benefits claims by veterans with type 1 diabetes who were exposed to a herbicide agent
The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report evaluating how the Department of Veterans Affairs has handled claims for disability-related benefits under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of veterans with type 1 diabetes who have been exposed to a herbicide agent (as defined in section 1116(a)(3) of title 38, United States Code).
6091.
Special rules for certain monthly workers’ compensation payments and other payments for Federal Government personnel under chief of mission authority
Section 901 of title IX of division J of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (
Public Law 116–94
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or other designated heads of Federal agencies
after
The Secretary of State
; and
(2)
in subsection (e)(2), by striking
Department of State
and inserting
Federal Government
.
H
Industries of the Future
6094A.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
Industries of the Future Act of 2020
.
6094B.
Report on Federal research and development focused on industries of the future
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall submit to Congress a report on research and development investments, infrastructure, and workforce development investments of the Federal Government that enable continued United States leadership in industries of the future.
(b)
Contents
The report submitted under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A definition, for purposes of this Act, of the term
industries of the future
that includes emerging technologies.
(2)
An assessment of the current baseline of investments in civilian research and development investments of the Federal Government in the industries of the future.
(3)
A plan to double such baseline investments in artificial intelligence and quantum information science by fiscal year 2022.
(4)
A detailed plan to increase investments described in paragraph (2) in industries of the future to $10,000,000,000 per year by fiscal year 2025.
(5)
A plan to leverage investments described in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) in industries of the future to elicit complimentary investments by non-Federal entities to the greatest extent practicable.
(6)
Proposed legislation to implement such plans.
6094C.
Industries of the Future Coordination Council
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The President shall establish or designate a council to advise the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy on matters relevant to the Director and the industries of the future.
(2)
Designation
The council established or designated under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
Industries of the Future Coordination Council
(in this section the
Council
).
(b)
Membership
(1)
Composition
The Council shall be composed of members from the Federal Government as follows:
(A)
One member appointed by the Director.
(B)
A chairperson of the Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence of the National Science and Technology Council.
(C)
A chairperson of the Subcommittee on Advanced Manufacturing of the National Science and Technology Council.
(D)
A chairperson of the Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science of the National Science and Technology Council.
(E)
Such other members as the President considers appropriate.
(2)
Chairperson
The member appointed to the Council under paragraph (1)(A) shall serve as the chairperson of the Council.
(c)
Duties
The duties of the Council are as follows:
(1)
To provide the Director with advice on ways in which in the Federal Government can ensure the United States continues to lead the world in developing emerging technologies that improve the quality of life of the people of the United States, increase economic competitiveness of the United States, and strengthen the national security of the United States, including identification of the following:
(A)
Investments required in fundamental research and development, infrastructure, and workforce development of the United States workers who will support the industries of the future.
(B)
Actions necessary to create and further develop the workforce that will support the industries of the future.
(C)
Actions required to leverage the strength of the research and development ecosystem of the United States, which includes academia, industry, and nonprofit organizations.
(D)
Ways that the Federal Government can consider leveraging existing partnerships and creating new partnerships and other multisector collaborations to advance the industries of the future.
(2)
To provide the Director with advice on matters relevant to the report required by section 6092B.
(d)
Coordination
The Council shall coordinate with and utilize relevant existing National Science and Technology Council committees to the maximum extent feasible in order to minimize duplication of effort.
(e)
Sunset
The Council shall terminate on the date that is 6 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
I
READI Act
6096.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
Reliable Emergency Alert Distribution Improvement Act of 2020
or
READI Act
.
6096A.
Definitions
In this subtitle—
(1)
the term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
(2)
the term
Commission
means the Federal Communications Commission;
(3)
the term
Emergency Alert System
means the national public warning system, the rules for which are set forth in part 11 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation); and
(4)
the term
Wireless Emergency Alerts System
means the wireless national public warning system established under the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act (
47 U.S.C. 1201
et seq.), the rules for which are set forth in part 10 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).
6096B.
Wireless Emergency Alerts System offerings
(a)
Amendment
Section 602(b)(2)(E) of the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act (
47 U.S.C. 1201(b)(2)(E)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking the second and third sentences; and
(2)
by striking
other than an alert issued by the President.
and inserting the following:
other than an alert issued by—
(i)
the President; or
(ii)
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
.
(b)
Regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator, shall adopt regulations to implement the amendment made by subsection (a)(2).
6096C.
State Emergency Alert System Plans and Emergency Communications Committees
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
SECC
means a State Emergency Communications Committee;
(2)
the term
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States; and
(3)
the term
State EAS Plan
means a State Emergency Alert System Plan.
(b)
State Emergency Communications Committee
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall adopt regulations that—
(1)
encourage the chief executive of each State—
(A)
to establish an SECC if the State does not have an SECC; or
(B)
if the State has an SECC, to review the composition and governance of the SECC;
(2)
provide that—
(A)
each SECC, not less frequently than annually, shall—
(i)
meet to review and update its State EAS Plan;
(ii)
certify to the Commission that the SECC has met as required under clause (i); and
(iii)
submit to the Commission an updated State EAS Plan; and
(B)
not later than 60 days after the date on which the Commission receives an updated State EAS Plan under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Commission shall—
(i)
approve or disapprove the updated State EAS Plan; and
(ii)
notify the chief executive of the State of the Commission's findings; and
(3)
establish a State EAS Plan content checklist for SECCs to use when reviewing and updating a State EAS Plan for submission to the Commission under paragraph (2)(A).
(c)
Consultation
The Commission shall consult with the Administrator regarding the adoption of regulations under subsection (b)(3).
6096D.
Integrated public alert and warning system guidance
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall develop and issue guidance on how State, Tribal, and local governments can participate in the integrated public alert and warning system of the United States described in section 526 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 321o
) (referred to in this section as the
public alert and warning system
) while maintaining the integrity of the public alert and warning system, including—
(1)
guidance on the categories of public emergencies and appropriate circumstances that warrant an alert and warning from State, Tribal, and local governments using the public alert and warning system;
(2)
the procedures for State, Tribal, and local government officials to authenticate civil emergencies and initiate, modify, and cancel alerts transmitted through the public alert and warning system, including protocols and technology capabilities for—
(A)
the initiation, or prohibition on the initiation, of alerts by a single authorized or unauthorized individual;
(B)
testing a State, Tribal, or local government incident management and warning tool without accidentally initiating an alert through the public alert and warning system; and
(C)
steps a State, Tribal, or local government official should take to mitigate the possibility of the issuance of a false alert through the public alert and warning system;
(3)
the standardization, functionality, and interoperability of incident management and warning tools used by State, Tribal, and local governments to notify the public of an emergency through the public alert and warning system;
(4)
the annual training and recertification of emergency management personnel on requirements for originating and transmitting an alert through the public alert and warning system;
(5)
the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the protective action plans that State, Tribal, and local governments should issue to the public following an alert issued under the public alert and warning system;
(6)
the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the communications that State, Tribal, and local governments should issue to the public following a false alert issued under the public alert and warning system;
(7)
a plan by which State, Tribal, and local government officials may, during an emergency, contact each other as well as Federal officials and participants in the Emergency Alert System and the Wireless Emergency Alerts System, when appropriate and necessary, by telephone, text message, or other means of communication regarding an alert that has been distributed to the public; and
(8)
any other procedure the Administrator considers appropriate for maintaining the integrity of and providing for public confidence in the public alert and warning system.
(b)
Coordination with National Advisory Council report
The Administrator shall ensure that the guidance developed under subsection (a) does not conflict with recommendations made for improving the public alert and warning system provided in the report submitted by the National Advisory Council under section 2(b)(7)(B) of the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2015 (
Public Law 114–143
; 130 Stat. 332).
(c)
Public consultation
In developing the guidance under subsection (a), the Administrator shall ensure appropriate public consultation and, to the extent practicable, coordinate the development of the guidance with stakeholders of the public alert and warning system, including—
(1)
appropriate personnel from Federal agencies, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Commission;
(2)
representatives of State and local governments and emergency services personnel, who shall be selected from among individuals nominated by national organizations representing those governments and personnel;
(3)
representatives of federally recognized Indian Tribes and national Indian organizations;
(4)
communications service providers;
(5)
vendors, developers, and manufacturers of systems, facilities, equipment, and capabilities for the provision of communications services;
(6)
third-party service bureaus;
(7)
the national organization representing the licensees and permittees of noncommercial broadcast television stations;
(8)
technical experts from the broadcasting industry, including representatives of both the non-commercial and commercial radio broadcast industries and non-commercial and commercial television broadcast industries;
(9)
educators from the Emergency Management Institute; and
(10)
other individuals with technical expertise as the Administrator determines appropriate.
(d)
Inapplicability of FACA
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the public consultation with stakeholders under subsection (c).
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to amend, supplement, or abridge the authority of the Commission under the Communications Act of 1934 (
47 U.S.C. 151
et seq.) or in any other manner give the Administrator authority over communications service providers participating in the Emergency Alert System or the Wireless Emergency Alerts System.
6096E.
False alert reporting
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator, shall complete a rulemaking proceeding to establish a system to receive from the Administrator or State, Tribal, or local governments reports of false alerts under the Emergency Alert System or the Wireless Emergency Alerts System for the purpose of recording such false alerts and examining their causes.
6096F.
Repeating Emergency Alert System messages for national security
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator, shall complete a rulemaking proceeding to modify the Emergency Alert System to provide for repeating Emergency Alert System messages while an alert remains pending that is issued by—
(1)
the President;
(2)
the Administrator; or
(3)
any other entity under specified circumstances as determined by the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator.
(b)
Scope of rulemaking
Subsection (a)—
(1)
shall apply to warnings of national security events, meaning emergencies of national significance, such as a missile threat, terror attack, or other act of war; and
(2)
shall not apply to more typical warnings, such as a weather alert, AMBER Alert, or disaster alert.
6096G.
Internet and online streaming services emergency alert examination
(a)
Study
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and after providing public notice and opportunity for comment, the Commission shall complete an inquiry to examine the feasibility of updating the Emergency Alert System to enable or improve alerts to consumers provided through the internet, including through streaming services.
(b)
Report
Not later than 90 days after completing the inquiry under subsection (a), the Commission shall submit a report on the findings and conclusions of the inquiry to—
(1)
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
LXII
Matters Relating to Foreign Nations
B
Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan
6211.
Congressional oversight of United States talks with Taliban officials and Afghanistan’s
comprehensive peace process
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Government of Afghanistan
The term
Government of Afghanistan
means the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.
(3)
The Taliban
The term
the Taliban
—
(A)
refers to the organization that refers to itself as the
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan
, that was founded by Mohammed Omar, and that is currently led by Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada; and
(B)
includes subordinate organizations, such as the Haqqani Network, and any successor organization.
(4)
February 29 Agreement
The term
February 29 Agreement
refers to the political arrangement between the United States and the Taliban titled
Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan Between the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan which is not recognized by the United States as a state and is known as the Taliban and the United States of America
signed at Doha, Qatar February 29, 2020.
(b)
Oversight of peace process and other agreements
(1)
Transmission to Congress of materials relevant to the February 29 Agreement
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall continue to submit to the appropriate congressional committees materials relevant to the February 29 Agreement.
(2)
Submission to Congress of any future deals involving the Taliban
The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, within 5 days of conclusion and on an ongoing basis thereafter, any future agreement or arrangement involving the Taliban in any manner, as well as materials relevant to any future agreement or arrangement involving the Taliban in any manner.
(3)
Definitions
In this subsection, the terms
materials relevant to the February 29 Agreement
and
materials relevant to any future agreement or arrangement
include all annexes, appendices, and instruments for implementation of the February 29 Agreement or a future agreement or arrangement, as well as any understandings or expectations related to the Agreement or a future agreement or arrangement.
(c)
Report and briefing on verification and compliance
(1)
In general
(A)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once every 120 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report verifying whether the key tenets of the February 29 Agreement, or future agreements, and accompanying implementing frameworks are being preserved and honored.
(B)
Briefing
At the time of each report submitted under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of State shall direct a Senate-confirmed Department of State official and other appropriate officials to brief the appropriate congressional committees on the contents of the report. The Director of National Intelligence shall also direct an appropriate official to participate in the briefing.
(2)
Elements
The report and briefing required under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
an assessment—
(i)
of the Taliban’s compliance with counterterrorism guarantees, including guarantees to deny safe haven and freedom of movement to al-Qaeda and other terrorist threats from operating on territory under its influence; and
(ii)
whether the United States intelligence community has collected any intelligence indicating the Taliban does not intend to uphold its commitments;
(B)
an assessment of Taliban actions against terrorist threats to United States national security interests;
(C)
an assessment of whether Taliban officials have made a complete, transparent, public, and verifiable breaking of all ties with al-Qaeda;
(D)
an assessment of the current relationship between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, including any interactions between members of the two groups in Afghanistan, Pakistan, or other countries, and any change in Taliban conduct towards al-Qaeda since February 29, 2020;
(E)
an assessment of the relationship between the Taliban and any other terrorist group that is assessed to threaten the security of the United States or its allies, including any change in conduct since February 29, 2020;
(F)
an assessment of whether the Haqqani Network has broken ties with al-Qaeda, and whether the Haqqani Network’s leader Sirajuddin Haqqani remains part of the leadership structure of the Taliban;
(G)
an assessment of threats emanating from Afghanistan against the United States homeland and United States partners, and a description of how the United States Government is responding to those threats;
(H)
an assessment of intra-Afghan discussions, political reconciliation, and progress towards a political roadmap that seeks to serve all Afghans;
(I)
an assessment of the viability of any intra-Afghan governing agreement;
(J)
an assessment as to whether the terms of any reduction in violence or ceasefire are being met by all sides in the conflict;
(K)
a detailed overview of any United States and NATO presence remaining in Afghanistan and any planned changes to such force posture;
(L)
an assessment of the status of human rights, including the rights of women, minorities, and youth;
(M)
an assessment of the access of women, minorities, and youth to education, justice, and economic opportunities in Afghanistan;
(N)
an assessment of the status of the rule of law and governance structures at the central, provincial, and district levels of government;
(O)
an assessment of the media and of the press and civil society’s operating space in Afghanistan;
(P)
an assessment of illicit narcotics production in Afghanistan, its linkages to terrorism, corruption, and instability, and policies to counter illicit narcotics flows;
(Q)
an assessment of corruption in Government of Afghanistan institutions at the district, provincial, and central levels of government;
(R)
an assessment of the number of Taliban and Afghan prisoners and any plans for the release of such prisoners from either side;
(S)
an assessment of any malign Iranian, Chinese, and Russian influence in Afghanistan;
(T)
an assessment of how other regional actors, such as Pakistan, are engaging with Afghanistan;
(U)
a detailed overview of national-level efforts to promote transitional justice, including forensic efforts and documentation of war crimes, mass killings, or crimes against humanity, redress to victims, and reconciliation activities;
(V)
A detailed overview of United States support for Government of Afghanistan and civil society efforts to promote peace and justice at the local level and how these efforts are informing government-level policies and negotiations;
(W)
an assessment of the progress made by the Afghanistan Ministry of Interior and the Office of the Attorney General to address gross violations of human rights (GVHRs) by civilian security forces, Taliban, and non-government armed groups, including—
(i)
a breakdown of resources provided by the Government of Afghanistan towards these efforts; and
(ii)
a summary of assistance provided by the United States Government to support these efforts; and
(X)
an overview of civilian casualties caused by the Taliban, non-government armed groups, and Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, including—
(i)
an estimate of the number of destroyed or severely damaged civilian structures;
(ii)
a description of steps taken by the Government of Afghanistan to minimize civilian casualties and other harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure;
(iii)
an assessment of the Government of Afghanistan’s capacity and mechanisms for investigating reports of civilian casualties; and
(iv)
an assessment of the Government of Afghanistan’s efforts to hold local militias accountable for civilian casualties.
(3)
Counterterrorism strategy
In the event that the Taliban does not meet its counterterrorism obligations under the February 29 Agreement, the report and briefing required under this subsection shall include information detailing the United States’ counterterrorism strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
(4)
Form
The report required under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, and the briefing required under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph shall be conducted at the appropriate classification level.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall prejudice whether a future deal involving the Taliban in any manner constitutes a treaty for purposes of Article II of the Constitution of the United States.
(e)
Sunset
Except for subsections (b) and (d), the provisions of this section shall cease to be effective on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
D
Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation
6231.
Clarification and expansion of sanctions relating to construction of Nord Stream 2 or TurkStream pipeline projects
(a)
In general
Subsection (a)(1) of section 7503 of the Protecting Europe’s Energy Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
or pipe-laying activities
after
pipe-laying
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (B)—
(A)
in clause (i)—
(i)
by inserting
, or facilitated selling, leasing, or providing,
after
provided
; and
(ii)
by striking
; or
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(iii)
provided underwriting services or insurance or reinsurance for those vessels;
(iv)
provided services or facilities for technology upgrades or installation of welding equipment for, or retrofitting or tethering of, those vessels; or
(v)
provided services for the testing, inspection, or certification necessary for, or associated with the operation of, the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
.
(b)
Definitions
Subsection (i) of such section is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
(5)
Pipe-laying activities
The term
pipe-laying activities
means activities that facilitate pipe-laying, including site preparation, trenching, surveying, placing rocks, backfilling, stringing, bending, welding, coating, and lowering of pipe.
.
6235.
Sense of Senate on admission of Ukraine to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Enhanced Opportunities Partnership Program
(a)
Ineffectiveness of section 1235
Section 1235 shall have no force or effect.
(b)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
On August 24, 1991, Ukraine became a free and independent country after declaring its independence from the Soviet Union.
(2)
The Russian Federation is required to respect the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine through its signed commitments to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, the 1975 Helsinki Accords, and the Charter of the United Nations.
(3)
On February 8, 1994, Ukraine was among the first post-Soviet states to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's Partnership for Peace, and Ukraine subsequently participated in numerous North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led security assistance, peacekeeping, counterterror, and maritime initiatives.
(4)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Ukraine have continuously deepened their cooperation through the establishment of—
(A)
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine Charter on a Distinctive Partnership and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine Commission in 1997;
(B)
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine Joint Working Group on Defense Reform in 1998; and
(C)
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine Action Plan in 2002.
(5)
In the Bucharest Summit Declaration of April 2008, heads of state and governments of North Atlantic Treaty Organization member countries declared,
NATO welcomes Ukraine’s and Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations for membership in NATO. We agreed today that these countries will become members of NATO.
.
(6)
Beginning on November 21, 2013, and ending on February 22, 2014, during a period that became known as the Revolution of Dignity, the people of Ukraine peacefully protested the decision of then President Viktor Yanukovych to suspend the signing of the Ukraine-European Union Association Agreement, resulting in the unanimous removal from office of Yanukovych by the Verkhovna Rada.
(7)
On May 25, 2014, Peter Poroshenko was elected democratically to become the President of Ukraine based on a pro-European Union and pro-North Atlantic Treaty Organization platform, which laid the foundation for progress on the European Union Association Agreement.
(8)
In response to Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity, the Russian Federation launched an overt and covert military campaign against Ukraine, illegally occupied Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula, and instigated war in eastern Ukraine, resulting in the deaths of approximately 14,000 Ukrainians.
(9)
The Russian Federation’s invasion and illegal occupation of the Crimean Peninsula and instigation of conflict in eastern Ukraine in 2014 was widely viewed as an effort to stifle pro-democracy and pro-Western developments across Ukraine in the wake of the Revolution of Dignity.
(10)
At the 2014 Wales Summit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization adopted the Enhanced Opportunities Partnership Program as a component of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Partnership Interoperability Initiative, which would
encourage, facilitate, and sustain
Ukraine’s contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(11)
In 2016, as a result of the Warsaw Summit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization pledged additional training and technical support for the military forces of Ukraine and endorsed a comprehensive assistance package that included
tailored capability and capacity building measures … to enhance Ukraine’s resilience against a wide array of threats, including hybrid threats
.
(12)
In 2017, in the face of continued Russian Federation aggression in the eastern region of Ukraine and the continued occupation of Crimea, the Government of Ukraine rejected cooperation with the Russian Federation and voted to make cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization a foreign policy priority.
(13)
On September 1, 2017, the Ukraine-European Union Association Agreement entered into force.
(14)
On April 21, 2019, the new president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy—
(A)
reaffirmed to European Union and North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders that Ukraine’s strategic course was to achieve full membership in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
(B)
championed the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine declaring that the Government of Ukraine is responsible for implementing such strategic course toward membership in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(15)
In January 2020, the Government of Ukraine requested that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization grant Ukraine the status of an Enhanced Opportunities Partner.
(16)
Since Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity and in recognition of the United States-Ukraine strategic partnership, the United States has—
(A)
provided Ukraine with more than $1,600,000,000 in security assistance, including critical defense items;
(B)
collaborated closely with the military forces of Ukraine; and
(C)
imposed strong sanctions on the Russian Federation in response to continued Russian Federation aggression in Ukraine.
(17)
On June 12, 2020, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization welcomed Ukraine into the Enhanced Opportunities Partnership program, joining Australia, Finland, Sweden, Georgia, and Jordan.
(c)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Senate—
(1)
applauds the progress of Ukraine and the Revolution of Dignity with respect to strengthening the rule of law and combating corruption, aligning with Euro-Atlantic norms and standards, and improving Ukraine's military combat readiness and interoperability with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(2)
affirms the unwavering commitment of the United States to—
(A)
supporting the continued efforts of Ukraine to implement democratic and free market reforms;
(B)
restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine; and
(C)
providing additional lethal and nonlethal security assistance to strengthen the defense capabilities of Ukraine and to deter further Russian Federation aggression;
(3)
condemns the Russian Federation’s ongoing use of force and other malign activities against Ukraine and renews its call on the Government of the Russian Federation to immediately cease all activities that seek to undermine Ukraine and destabilize Europe; and
(4)
congratulates Ukraine on its inclusion in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Enhanced Opportunities Partnership program and on the establishment of a roadmap to full NATO accession for Ukraine.
E
Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region
6251.
Pilot program to improve cyber cooperation with Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish a pilot program in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia—
(1)
to enhance the cyber security, resilience, and readiness of Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia; and
(2)
to increase regional cooperation between the United States and Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia on cyber issues.
(b)
Elements
The activities of the pilot program under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Provision of training to cybersecurity and computer science professionals in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(2)
An expansion of the capacity of organizations involved in the training of such cybersecurity and computer science professionals.
(3)
The facilitation of regular policy dialogues between and among the United States Government and the governments of Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia with respect to the development of infrastructure to protect against cyber attacks.
(4)
An evaluation of legal and other barriers to reforms relevant to cybersecurity and technology in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(5)
A feasibility study on establishing a public-private partnership to build cloud-computing capacity in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia and in Southeast Asia more broadly.
(6)
The development of cooperative exercises, to be carried out in future years, to enhance collaboration between the United States Government and the governments of Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(c)
Funding
The Secretary of Defense may enter into cooperative agreements with entities that receive funds under section 211 of the Vietnam Education Foundation Act of 2000 (title II of division B of H.R. 5666, as enacted by section 1(a)(4) of
Public Law 106–554
and contained in appendix D of that Act; 114 Stat. 2763A–254;
22 U.S.C. 2452
note), as added by section 7085 of the Consolidated and Further Appropriations Act, 2015 (
Public Law 113–235
; 128 Stat. 2685), to carry out the pilot program under subsection (a).
(d)
Reports
(1)
Design of pilot program
Not later than June 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the design of the pilot program under subsection (a).
(2)
Progress report
Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the pilot program under subsection (a) that includes—
(A)
a description of the activities conducted and the results of such activities; and
(B)
an assessment of legal and other barriers to reforms relevant to cybersecurity and technology in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(e)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 to carry out this section.
(f)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated by this Act for operation and maintenance, Navy, and available for SAG 1CCS for military information support operations, is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
(g)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
F
Reports
6273.
Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due to Huawei 5G architecture in host countries
Section 1273 shall have no force or effect.
G
Other Matters
6281.
Comparative studies on defense budget transparency of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United States
(a)
Studies required
(1)
Department of Defense study
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), the Director of the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, the Director of the Office of Net Assessment, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, shall complete a comparative study on the defense budgets of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United States.
(2)
Independent study
(A)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall offer to enter into an agreement with not more than two entities independent of the Department to conduct a comparative study on the defense budgets of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United States, to be completed not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(B)
Federally funded research and development center
Not fewer than one entity described in subparagraph (A) shall be a federally funded research and development center.
(b)
Goal
The goal of the studies required by subsection (a) shall be to develop a methodologically sound set of assumptions to underpin a comparison of the defense spending of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United States.
(c)
Elements
Each study required by subsection (a) shall do the following:
(1)
Develop consistent functional categories for spending, including—
(A)
defense-related research and development;
(B)
weapons procurement;
(C)
operations and maintenance; and
(D)
pay and benefits.
(2)
Consider the effects of purchasing power parity and market exchange rates, particularly on nontraded goods.
(3)
Consider differences in the relative prices of goods and labor within each subject country.
(4)
Compare the costs of labor and benefits for the defense workforce of each subject country.
(5)
Account for discrepancies in the manner in which each subject country accounts for certain functional types of defense-related spending.
(6)
Explicitly estimate the magnitude of omitted spending from official defense budget information.
(7)
Evaluate the adequacy of the United Nations database on military expenditures.
(8)
Exclude spending related to veterans’ benefits.
(d)
Report
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the studies required by subsection (a) are completed, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of each study, together with the views of the Secretary on each study.
(e)
Form
The report required by subsection (d) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
6282.
Modification to initiative to support protection of national security academic researchers from undue influence and other security threats
Section 1286 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
10 U.S.C. 2358
note) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
(2)
by adding after subsection (e) the following new subsection (f):
(f)
Designation of academic liaison
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall designate an academic liaison with principal responsibility for working with the academic community to protect Department-sponsored academic research of concern from undue foreign influence.
(2)
Qualification
The Secretary shall designate an individual under paragraph (1) who is an official of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
(3)
Duties
The duties of the academic liaison designated under paragraph (1) shall be as follows:
(A)
To serve as the liaison of the Department with the academic community.
(B)
To conduct annual outreach and education activities for the academic community on undue foreign influence and threats to Department-sponsored academic research of concern.
(C)
To coordinate and align academic security policies with Department component agencies, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the intelligence community, Federal science agencies, and Federal regulatory agencies, including agencies involved in export controls.
(D)
To the extent practicable, to coordinate on an annual basis with the intelligence community to share, not less frequently than annually, with the academic community unclassified information, including counterintelligence information, on threats from undue foreign influence.
(E)
Any other related responsibility, as determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
(F)
Any other duty, as determined by the Secretary.
.
6283.
Sense of Senate on United States-Israel cooperation on precision-guided munitions
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1)
the Department of Defense has cooperated extensively with Israel to assist in the procurement of precision-guided munitions, and such cooperation represents an important example of robust United States support for Israel;
(2)
to the extent practicable, the Secretary of Defense should take further measures to expedite deliveries of precision-guided munitions to Israel; and
(3)
regularized annual purchases of precision-guided munitions by Israel, in accordance with existing requirements and practices regarding the export of defense articles and defense services, coordinated with the United States Air Force annual purchase of precision-guided munitions, would enhance the security of both the United States and Israel by—
(A)
promoting a more efficient use of defense resources by taking advantage of economies of scale;
(B)
enabling the United States and Israel to address crisis requirements for precision-guided munitions in a timely and flexible manner; and
(C)
encouraging the defense industrial base to maintain routine production lines of precision-guided munitions.
6284.
Blocking deadly fentanyl imports
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act
.
(b)
Definitions
Section 481(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291(e)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
in which
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A), by inserting
in which
before
1,000
;
(C)
in subparagraph (B)—
(i)
by inserting
in which
before
1,000
; and
(ii)
by striking
or
at the end;
(D)
in subparagraph (C)—
(i)
by inserting
in which
before
5,000
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or
after the semicolon; and
(E)
by adding at the end the following:
(D)
that is a significant source of illicit synthetic opioids significantly affecting the United States;
; and
(2)
in paragraph (4)—
(A)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (D), by adding
and
at the end; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(E)
assistance that furthers the objectives set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 664(b) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 2151n–2(b)
);
(F)
assistance to combat trafficking authorized under the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.)); and
(G)
global health assistance authorized under sections 104 through 104C of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2151b
through
22 U.S.C. 2151b–4
).
.
(c)
International narcotics control strategy report
Section 489(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(9)
A separate section that contains the following:
(A)
An identification of the countries, to the extent feasible, that are the most significant sources of illicit fentanyl and fentanyl analogues significantly affecting the United States during the preceding calendar year.
(B)
A description of the extent to which each country identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has cooperated with the United States to prevent the articles or chemicals described in subparagraph (A) from being exported from such country to the United States.
(C)
A description of whether each country identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has adopted and utilizes scheduling or other procedures for illicit drugs that are similar in effect to the procedures authorized under title II of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 811
et seq.) for adding drugs and other substances to the controlled substances schedules;
(D)
A description of whether each country identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) is following steps to prosecute individuals involved in the illicit manufacture or distribution of controlled substance analogues (as defined in section 102(32) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802(32)
); and
(E)
A description of whether each country identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) requires the registration of tableting machines and encapsulating machines or other measures similar in effect to the registration requirements set forth in part 1310 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, and has not made good faith efforts, in the opinion of the Secretary, to improve regulation of tableting machines and encapsulating machines.
.
(d)
Withholding of bilateral and multilateral assistance
(1)
In general
Section 490(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291j(a)
) is amended—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by striking
or country identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of section 489(a)(8)(A) of this Act
and inserting
country identified pursuant to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country thrice identified during a 5-year period pursuant to section 489(a)(9)(A)
; and
(B)
in paragraph (2), by striking
or major drug-transit country (as determined under subsection (h)) or country identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of section 489(a)(8)(A) of this Act
and inserting
, major drug-transit country, country identified pursuant to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country thrice identified during a 5-year period pursuant to section 489(a)(9)(A)
.
(2)
Designation of illicit fentanyl countries without scheduling procedures
Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(2)
) is amended—
(A)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
also
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
and
at the end;
(C)
by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (D);
(D)
by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
(B)
designate each country, if any, identified under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9)
) that has failed to adopt and utilize scheduling procedures for illicit drugs that are comparable to the procedures authorized under title II of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 811
et seq.) for adding drugs and other substances to the controlled substances schedules;
; and
(E)
in subparagraph (D), as redesignated, by striking
so designated
and inserting
designated under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C)
.
(3)
Designation of illicit fentanyl countries without ability To prosecute criminals for the manufacture or distribution of fentanyl analogues
Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(2)
), as amended by paragraph (2), is further amended by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
designate each country, if any, identified under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9)
) that has not taken significant steps to prosecute individuals involved in the illicit manufacture or distribution of controlled substance analogues (as defined in section 102(32) of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802(32)
);
.
(4)
Limitation on assistance for designated countries
Section 706(3) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(3)
) is amended by striking
also designated under paragraph (2) in the report
and inserting
designated in the report under paragraph (2)(A) or thrice designated during a 5-year period in the report under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2)
.
(5)
Exception to the limitation on assistance
Section 706(5) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(5)
) is amended—
(A)
by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (F);
(B)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assistance to promote democracy (as described in section 481(e)(4)(E) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2291(e)(4)(E)
)) shall be provided to countries identified in a report under paragraph (1) and designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to the extent such countries are otherwise eligible for such assistance, regardless of whether the President reports to the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with such paragraph.
(D)
Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assistance to combat trafficking (as described in section 481(e)(4)(F) of such Act) shall be provided to countries identified in a report under paragraph (1) and designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to the extent such countries are otherwise eligible for such assistance, regardless of whether the President reports to the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with such paragraph.
(E)
Notwithstanding paragraph (3), global health assistance (as described in section 481(e)(4)(G) of such Act) shall be provided to countries identified in a report under paragraph (1) and designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to the extent such countries are otherwise eligible for such assistance, regardless of whether the President reports to the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with such paragraph
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (F), as redesignated, by striking
section clause (i) or (ii) of
and inserting
clause (i) or (ii) of section
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
6286.
Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group
The reference in section 1286(b)(5)(A) to the
Minister of Defense of Israel
is deemed to refer to the
Secretary of State and the Minister of Defense of Israel
.
H
United States-Israel Security Assistance
6290.
Short title
This subtitle may be cited as the
United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2020
.
6290A.
Definition
In this subtitle, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
;
(2)
the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(3)
the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
; and
(4)
the
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives
.
1
Security assistance for Israel
6291.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
On September 14, 2016, the United States and Israel signed a 10-year Memorandum of Understanding to reaffirm the importance of continuing annual United States military assistance to Israel and cooperative missile defense programs in a way that enhances Israel’s security and strengthens the bilateral relationship between the 2 countries.
(2)
The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding reflects United States support of Foreign Military Financing grant assistance to Israel over a 10-year period beginning in fiscal year 2019 and ending in fiscal year 2028.
(3)
The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding also reflects United States support for funding for cooperative programs to develop, produce, and procure missile, rocket, and projectile defense capabilities during such 10-year period at an average funding level of $500,000,000 per year, totaling $5,000,000,000 for such period.
6292.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to provide assistance to the Government of Israel for the development and acquisition of advanced capabilities that Israel requires to meet its security needs and to enhance United States capabilities.
6293.
Security assistance for Israel
Section 513(c) of the Security Assistance Act of 2000 (
Public Law 106–280
; 114 Stat. 856) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
2002 and 2003
and inserting
2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028
;
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
equal to—
and all that follows and inserting
not less than $3,300,000,000.
; and
(3)
by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
(3)
Disbursement of funds
Amounts authorized to be available for Israel under paragraph (1) and subsection (b)(1) for fiscal years 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 shall be disbursed not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of an Act making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs for the respective fiscal year, or October 31 of the respective fiscal year, whichever is later.
.
6294.
Extension of war reserves stockpile authority
(a)
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005
Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (
Public Law 108–287
; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking
September 30, 2020
and inserting
after September 30, 2025
.
(b)
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)
) is amended by striking
2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020
and inserting
2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025
.
6295.
Extension of loan guarantees to Israel
Chapter 5 of title I of the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003 (
Public Law 108–11
; 117 Stat. 576) is amended under the heading
Loan Guarantees to Israel
—
(1)
in the matter preceding the first proviso, by striking
September 30, 2023
and inserting
September 30, 2025
; and
(2)
in the second proviso, by striking
September 30, 2023
and inserting
September 30, 2025
.
6296.
Transfer of precision guided munitions to Israel
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding section 514 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321h
), the President is authorized to transfer to Israel precision guided munitions from reserve stocks for Israel in such quantities as may be necessary for legitimate self-defense of Israel and is otherwise consistent with the purposes and conditions for such transfers under the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.).
(b)
Certifications
Except in case of emergency, as determined by the President, not later than 5 days before making a transfer under subsection (a), the President shall certify to the appropriate congressional committees that the transfer of the precision guided munitions—
(1)
does not affect the ability of the United States to maintain a sufficient supply of precision guided munitions;
(2)
does not harm the combat readiness of the United States or the ability of the United States to meet its commitment to allies for the transfer of such munitions;
(3)
is necessary for Israel to counter the threat of rockets in a timely fashion; and
(4)
is in the national security interest of the United States.
6297.
Sense of Congress on rapid acquisition and deployment procedures
It is the sense of Congress that the President should—
(1)
prescribe procedures for the rapid acquisition and deployment of precision guided munitions for United States counterterrorism missions; or
(2)
assist Israel, which is an ally of the United States, to protect itself against direct missile threats.
6298.
Eligibility of Israel for the strategic trade authorization exception to certain export control licensing requirements
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Israel has adopted high standards in the field of weapons export controls.
(2)
Israel has declared its unilateral adherence to the Missile Technology Control Regime, the Australia Group, and the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
(3)
Israel is a party to—
(A)
the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, signed at Geneva June 17, 1925 (commonly known as the
Geneva Protocol
);
(B)
the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, signed at Vienna and New York March 3, 1980; and
(C)
the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which may be Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, signed at Geneva October 10, 1980.
(4)
Section 6(b) of the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (
22 U.S.C. 8603
note) directs the President, consistent with the commitments of the United States under international agreements, to take steps so that Israel may be included in the list of countries eligible for the strategic trade authorization exception under section 740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, to the requirement for a license for the export, re-export, or in-country transfer of an item subject to controls under the Export Administration Regulations.
(b)
Briefing on eligibility for strategic trade authorization exception
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall brief the appropriate congressional committees by describing the steps taken to include Israel in the list of countries eligible for the strategic trade authorization exception under section 740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, as required under section 6(b) of the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–296
).
2
Enhanced United States-Israel cooperation
6299.
United States Agency for International Development memoranda of understanding to enhance cooperation with Israel
(a)
Findings
Congress finds that the United States Agency for International Development and Israel’s Agency for International Development Cooperation signed memoranda of understanding in 2012, 2017, and 2019 to coordinate the agencies’ respective efforts to promote common development goals in third countries.
(b)
Sense of Congress regarding USAID policy
It is the sense of Congress that the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development should continue to cooperate with Israel to advance common development goals in third countries across a wide variety of sectors, including energy, agriculture, food security, democracy, human rights, governance, economic growth, trade, education, environment, global health, water, and sanitation.
(c)
Memoranda of understanding
The Secretary of State, acting through the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, may enter into memoranda of understanding with Israel to advance common goals on energy, agriculture, food security, democracy, human rights, governance, economic growth, trade, education, environment, global health, water, and sanitation, with a focus on strengthening mutual ties and cooperation with nations throughout the world.
6299A.
Cooperative projects among the United States, Israel, and developing countries
Section 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2151d
) is amended by striking subsections (e) and (f) and inserting the following:
(e)
There are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025 to finance cooperative projects among the United States, Israel, and developing countries that identify and support local solutions to address sustainability challenges relating to water resources, agriculture, and energy storage, including—
(1)
establishing public-private partnerships;
(2)
supporting the identification, research, development testing, and scaling of innovations that focus on populations that are vulnerable to environmental and resource-scarcity crises, such as subsistence farming communities;
(3)
seed or transition-to-scale funding;
(4)
clear and appropriate branding and marking of United States funded assistance, in accordance with section 641; and
(5)
accelerating demonstrations or applications of local solutions to sustainability challenges, or the further refinement, testing, or implementation of innovations that have previously effectively addressed sustainability challenges.
(f)
Amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (e) shall be obligated in accordance with the memoranda of understanding referred to in subsections (a) and (c) of section 6299 of the
United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2020
.
6299B.
Joint cooperative program related to innovation and high-tech for the Middle East region
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States should help foster cooperation in the Middle East region by financing and, as appropriate, cooperating in projects related to innovation and advanced technologies; and
(2)
projects referred to in paragraph (1) should—
(A)
contribute to development and the quality of life in the Middle East region through the application of research and advanced technology; and
(B)
contribute to Arab-Israeli cooperation by establishing strong working relationships that last beyond the life of such projects.
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary of State, acting through the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, is authorized to seek to establish a program between the United States and appropriate regional partners to provide for cooperation in the Middle East region by supporting projects related to innovation and advanced technologies.
(c)
Project requirements
Each project carried out under the program established pursuant to subsection (b)—
(1)
shall include the participation of at least 1 entity from Israel and 1 entity from another regional partner; and
(2)
shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information, intellectual property, the national security interests of the United States, and the national security interests of Israel.
6299C.
Sense of Congress on United States-Israel economic cooperation
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States-Israel economic partnership—
(A)
has achieved great tangible and intangible benefits to both countries; and
(B)
is a foundational component of the strong alliance;
(2)
science and technology innovations present promising new frontiers for United States-Israel economic cooperation, particularly in light of widespread drought, cybersecurity attacks, and other major challenges impacting the United States; and
(3)
the President should regularize and expand existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel and foster both public and private sector participation.
6299D.
Cooperation on directed energy capabilities
(a)
Authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to carry out research, development, test, and evaluation activities, on a joint basis with Israel, to establish directed energy capabilities that address threats to the United States, deployed forces of the United States, or Israel. Any activities carried out under this paragraph shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information, intellectual property, the national security interests of the United States, and the national security interests of Israel.
(2)
Report
The activities described in paragraph (1) may be carried out after the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, submits a report to the appropriate congressional committees that includes—
(A)
a memorandum of agreement between the United States and Israel regarding sharing of research and development costs for the capabilities described in paragraph (1), and any supporting documents; and
(B)
a certification that the memorandum of agreement referred to in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
requires sharing of costs of projects, including in-kind support, between the United States and Israel;
(ii)
establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of agreement; and
(iii)
requires the United States Government to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the Government of Israel, including—
(I)
a description of what the funds have been used for and when funds were expended; and
(II)
the identification of entities that expended such funds.
(b)
Support in connection with activities
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to provide maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the directed energy capabilities research, development, test, and evaluation activities authorized under subsection (a)(1), including the installation of equipment that is necessary to carry out such research, development, test, and evaluation.
(2)
Report
The support described in paragraph (1) may not be provided until 15 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, submits a report to the appropriate congressional committees that describes in detail the support to be provided.
(3)
Matching contribution
The support described in paragraph (1) may not be provided unless the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Israel will contribute to such support—
(A)
an amount not less than the amount of support to be so provided; or
(B)
an amount that otherwise meets the best efforts of Israel, as mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel.
(c)
Semiannual report
The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit a semiannual report to the appropriate congressional committees that includes the most recent semiannual report provided by the Government of Israel to the United States Government.
6299E.
Plans to provide Israel with necessary defense articles and services in a contingency
(a)
In general
The President shall establish and update, as appropriate, plans to provide Israel with defense articles and services that are determined by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary for the defense of Israel in a contingency.
(b)
Congressional briefing
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall brief the appropriate congressional committees regarding the status of the plans required under subsection (a).
6299F.
Other matters of cooperation
(a)
In general
Activities authorized under this section shall be carried out with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and aligned with the National Security Strategy of the United States, the United States Government Global Health Security Strategy, the Department of State Integrated Country Strategies, the USAID Country Development Cooperation Strategies, and any equivalent or successor plans or strategies, as necessary and appropriate
(b)
Development of health technologies
(1)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services $4,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2023 for a bilateral cooperative program with the Government of Israel that awards grants for the development of health technologies, including health technologies listed in paragraph (2), subject to paragraph (3), with an emphasis on collaboratively advancing the use of technology and personalized medicine in relation to COVID–19.
(2)
Types of health technologies
The health technologies described in this paragraph may include technologies such as sensors, drugs and vaccinations, respiratory assist devices, diagnostic tests, and telemedicine.
(3)
Restrictions on funding
Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) are subject to a matching contribution from the Government of Israel.
(4)
Option for establishing new program
Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) may be expended for a bilateral program with the Government of Israel that—
(A)
is in existence on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act for the purposes described in paragraph (1); or
(B)
is established after the date of the enactment of this Act by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of State, in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the State of Israel on Cooperation in Science and Technology for Homeland Security Matters, done at Jerusalem May 29, 2008 (or a successor agreement), for the purposes described in paragraph (1).
(c)
Coordinator of United States–Israel research and development
(1)
In general
The President may designate the Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, or another appropriate Department of State official, to act as Coordinator of United States-Israel Research and Development (referred to in this subsection as the
Coordinator
).
(2)
Authorities and duties
The Coordinator, in conjunction with the heads of relevant Federal Government departments and agencies and in coordination with the Israel Innovation Authority, may oversee civilian science and technology programs on a joint basis with Israel.
(d)
Office of Global Policy and Strategy of the Food and Drug Administration
(1)
In general
It is the sense of Congress that the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration should seek to explore collaboration with Israel through the Office of Global Policy and Strategy.
(2)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner, acting through the head of the Office of Global Policy and Strategy, shall submit a report describing the benefits to the United States and to Israel of opening an office in Israel for the Office of Global Policy and Strategy to—
(A)
the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
;
(B)
the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate
;
(C)
the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
; and
(D)
the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives
.
(e)
United States–Israel Energy Center
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy $4,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2023 to carry out the activities of the United States-Israel Energy Center established pursuant to section 917(d) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17337(d)
).
(f)
United States–Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation
It is the sense of Congress that grants to promote covered energy projects conducted by, or in conjunction with, the United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation should be funded at not less than $2,000,000 annually under section 917(b) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (
42 U.S.C. 17337(b)
).
(g)
United States–Israel cooperation on energy, water, homeland security, agriculture, and alternative fuel technologies
Section 7 of the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (
22 U.S.C. 8606
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
.
(h)
Annual policy dialogue
It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Transportation and Israel’s Ministry of Transportation should engage in an annual policy dialogue to implement the 2016 Memorandum of Cooperation signed by the Secretary of Transportation and the Israeli Minister of Transportation.
(i)
Cooperation on space exploration and science initiatives
The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall continue to work with the Israel Space Agency to identify and cooperatively pursue peaceful space exploration and science initiatives in areas of mutual interest, taking all appropriate measures to protect sensitive information, intellectual property, trade secrets, and economic interests of the United States.
(j)
Research and development cooperation relating to desalination technology
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall submit a report that describes research and development cooperation with international partners, such as the State of Israel, in the area of desalination technology in accordance with section 9(b)(3) of the Water Desalination Act of 1996 (
42 U.S.C. 10301
note) to—
(1)
the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
;
(2)
the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
;
(3)
the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
; and
(4)
the
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives
.
(k)
Research and treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs should seek to explore collaboration between the Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Centers of Excellence and Israeli institutions with expertise in researching and treating posttraumatic stress disorder.
LXVI
Strategic Programs, Cyber, and Intelligence Matters
B
Cyberspace Related Matters
6611.
Report on use of encryption by Department of Defense national security systems
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a report detailing the mission need and efficacy of full disk encryption across Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and Secretary Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) endpoint computer systems. Such report shall cover matters relating to cost, mission impact, and implementation timeline.
6612.
Guidance and direction on use of direct hiring processes for artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel
(a)
Guidance required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to the secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the defense components on improved use of the direct hiring processes for artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel.
(b)
Objective
The objective of the guidance issued under subsection (a) shall be to ensure that organizational leaders assume greater responsibility for the results of civilian hiring of artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel.
(c)
Contents of guidance
At a minimum, the guidance required by subsection (a) shall—
(1)
instruct human resources professionals and hiring authorities to utilize available direct hiring authorities (including excepted service authorities) for the hiring of artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel, to the maximum extent practicable;
(2)
instruct hiring authorities, when using direct hiring authorities, to prioritize utilization of panels of subject matter experts over human resources professionals to assess applicant qualifications and determine which applicants are best qualified for a position;
(3)
authorize and encourage the use of ePortfolio reviews to provide insight into the previous work of applicants as a tangible demonstration of capabilities and contribute to the assessment of applicant qualifications by subject matter experts; and
(4)
encourage the use of referral bonuses for recruitment and hiring of highly qualified artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel in accordance with volume 451 of Department of Defense Instruction 1400.25.
(d)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date on which the guidance is issued under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the guidance issued pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
Contents
At a minimum, the report submitted under paragraph (1) shall address the following:
(A)
The objectives of the guidance and the manner in which the guidance seeks to achieve those objectives.
(B)
The effect of the guidance on the hiring process for artificial intelligence professionals and other data science and software development personnel, including the effect on—
(i)
hiring time;
(ii)
the use of direct hiring authority;
(iii)
the use of subject matter experts; and
(iv)
the quality of new hires, as assessed by hiring managers and organizational leaders.
6613.
Cybersecurity State Coordinator Act
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Cybersecurity State Coordinator Act of 2020
.
(b)
Cybersecurity State Coordinator
(1)
In general
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 651
et seq.) is amended—
(A)
in section 2202(c) (
6 U.S.C. 652(c)
)—
(i)
in paragraph (10), by striking
and
at the end;
(ii)
by redesignating paragraph (11) as paragraph (12); and
(iii)
by inserting after paragraph (10) the following:
(11)
appoint a Cybersecurity State Coordinator in each State, as described in section 2215; and
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
2215.
Cybersecurity State Coordinator
(a)
Appointment
The Director shall appoint an employee of the Agency in each State, with the appropriate cybersecurity qualifications and expertise, who shall serve as the Cybersecurity State Coordinator.
(b)
Duties
The duties of a Cybersecurity State Coordinator appointed under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
building strategic relationships across Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-Federal entities by advising on establishing governance structures to facilitate the development and maintenance of secure and resilient infrastructure;
(2)
serving as a Federal cybersecurity risk advisor and coordinating between Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-Federal entities to support preparation, response, and remediation efforts relating to cybersecurity risks and incidents;
(3)
facilitating the sharing of cyber threat information between Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-Federal entities to improve understanding of cybersecurity risks and situational awareness of cybersecurity incidents;
(4)
raising awareness of the financial, technical, and operational resources available from the Federal Government to non-Federal entities to increase resilience against cyber threats;
(5)
supporting training, exercises, and planning for continuity of operations to expedite recovery from cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware;
(6)
serving as a principal point of contact for non-Federal entities to engage, on a voluntary basis, with the Federal Government on preparing, managing, and responding to cybersecurity incidents;
(7)
assisting non-Federal entities in developing and coordinating vulnerability disclosure programs consistent with Federal and information security industry standards; and
(8)
performing such other duties as determined necessary by the Director to achieve the goal of managing cybersecurity risks in the United States and reducing the impact of cyber threats to non-Federal entities.
(c)
Feedback
The Director shall consult with relevant State and local officials regarding the appointment, and State and local officials and other non-Federal entities regarding the performance, of the Cybersecurity State Coordinator of a State.
.
(2)
Oversight
The Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency shall provide to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a briefing on the placement and efficacy of the Cybersecurity State Coordinators appointed under section 2215 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by paragraph (1)—
(A)
not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act; and
(B)
not later than 2 years after providing the first briefing under this paragraph.
(3)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection or the amendments made by this subsection shall be construed to affect or otherwise modify the authority of Federal law enforcement agencies with respect to investigations relating to cybersecurity incidents.
(4)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2214 the following:
Sec. 2215. Cybersecurity State Coordinator.
.
6614.
Cybersecurity Advisory Committee
(a)
Short title
This section may be cited as the
Cybersecurity Advisory Committee Authorization Act of 2020
.
(b)
In general
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 651
et seq.), as amended by section 6613 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
2216.
Cybersecurity Advisory Committee
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish within the Agency a Cybersecurity Advisory Committee (referred to in this section as the
Advisory Committee
).
(b)
Duties
(1)
In general
The Advisory Committee shall advise, consult with, report to, and make recommendations to the Director, as appropriate, on the development, refinement, and implementation of policies, programs, planning, and training pertaining to the cybersecurity mission of the Agency.
(2)
Recommendations
(A)
In general
The Advisory Committee shall develop, at the request of the Director, recommendations for improvements to advance the cybersecurity mission of the Agency and strengthen the cybersecurity of the United States.
(B)
Recommendations of subcommittees
Recommendations agreed upon by subcommittees established under subsection (d) for any year shall be approved by the Advisory Committee before the Advisory Committee submits to the Director the annual report under paragraph (4) for that year.
(3)
Periodic reports
The Advisory Committee shall periodically submit to the Director—
(A)
reports on matters identified by the Director; and
(B)
reports on other matters identified by a majority of the members of the Advisory Committee.
(4)
Annual report
(A)
In general
The Advisory Committee shall submit to the Director an annual report providing information on the activities, findings, and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, including its subcommittees, for the preceding year.
(B)
Publication
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Director receives an annual report for a year under subparagraph (A), the Director shall publish a public version of the report describing the activities of the Advisory Committee and such related matters as would be informative to the public during that year, consistent with section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code.
(5)
Feedback
Not later than 90 days after receiving any recommendation submitted by the Advisory Committee under paragraph (2), (3), or (4), the Director shall respond in writing to the Advisory Committee with feedback on the recommendation. Such a response shall include—
(A)
with respect to any recommendation with which the Director concurs, an action plan to implement the recommendation; and
(B)
with respect to any recommendation with which the Director does not concur, a justification for why the Director does not plan to implement the recommendation.
(6)
Congressional notification
Not less frequently than once per year after the date of enactment of this section, the Director shall provide to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a briefing on feedback from the Advisory Committee.
(7)
Governance rules
The Director shall establish rules for the structure and governance of the Advisory Committee and all subcommittees established under subsection (d).
(c)
Membership
(1)
Appointment
(A)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the
Cybersecurity Advisory Committee Authorization Act of 2020
, the Director shall appoint the members of the Advisory Committee.
(B)
Composition
The membership of the Advisory Committee shall consist of not more than 35 individuals.
(C)
Representation
(i)
In general
The membership of the Advisory Committee shall—
(I)
consist of subject matter experts;
(II)
be geographically balanced; and
(III)
include representatives of State, local, and Tribal governments and of a broad range of industries, which may include the following:
(aa)
Defense.
(bb)
Education.
(cc)
Financial services and insurance.
(dd)
Healthcare.
(ee)
Manufacturing.
(ff)
Media and entertainment.
(gg)
Chemicals.
(hh)
Retail.
(ii)
Transportation.
(jj)
Energy.
(kk)
Information Technology.
(ll)
Communications.
(mm)
Other relevant fields identified by the Director.
(ii)
Prohibition
Not less than 1 member nor more than 3 members may represent any 1 category under clause (i)(III).
(iii)
Publication of membership list
The Advisory Committee shall publish its membership list on a publicly available website not less than once per fiscal year and shall update the membership list as changes occur.
(2)
Term of office
(A)
Terms
The term of each member of the Advisory Committee shall be 2 years, except that a member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed.
(B)
Removal
The Director may review the participation of a member of the Advisory Committee and remove such member any time at the discretion of the Director.
(C)
Reappointment
A member of the Advisory Committee may be reappointed for an unlimited number of terms.
(3)
Prohibition on compensation
The members of the Advisory Committee may not receive pay or benefits from the United States Government by reason of their service on the Advisory Committee.
(4)
Meetings
(A)
In general
The Director shall require the Advisory Committee to meet not less frequently than semiannually, and may convene additional meetings as necessary.
(B)
Public meetings
At least one of the meetings referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be open to the public.
(C)
Attendance
The Advisory Committee shall maintain a record of the persons present at each meeting.
(5)
Member access to classified information
(A)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date on which a member is first appointed to the Advisory Committee and before the member is granted access to any classified information, the Director shall determine, for the purposes of the Advisory Committee, if the member should be restricted from reviewing, discussing, or possessing classified information.
(B)
Access
Access to classified materials shall be managed in accordance with Executive Order No. 13526 of December 29, 2009 (75 Fed. Reg. 707), or any subsequent corresponding Executive Order.
(C)
Protections
A member of the Advisory Committee shall protect all classified information in accordance with the applicable requirements for the particular level of classification of such information.
(D)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to affect the security clearance of a member of the Advisory Committee or the authority of a Federal agency to provide a member of the Advisory Committee access to classified information.
(6)
Chairperson
The Advisory Committee shall select, from among the members of the Advisory Committee—
(A)
a member to serve as chairperson of the Advisory Committee; and
(B)
a member to serve as chairperson of each subcommittee of the Advisory Committee established under subsection (d).
(d)
Subcommittees
(1)
In general
The Director shall establish subcommittees within the Advisory Committee to address cybersecurity issues, which may include the following:
(A)
Information exchange.
(B)
Critical infrastructure.
(C)
Risk management.
(D)
Public and private partnerships.
(2)
Meetings and reporting
Each subcommittee shall meet not less frequently than semiannually, and submit to the Advisory Committee for inclusion in the annual report required under subsection (b)(4) information, including activities, findings, and recommendations, regarding subject matter considered by the subcommittee.
(3)
Subject matter experts
The chair of the Advisory Committee shall appoint members to subcommittees and shall ensure that each member appointed to a subcommittee has subject matter expertise relevant to the subject matter of the subcommittee.
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135), as so amended, is further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2215 the following:
Sec. 2216. Cybersecurity Advisory Committee.
.
6615.
Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the United States continues to face critical shortages in the national cybersecurity workforce;
(2)
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency within the Department of Homeland Security has the responsibility to manage cyber and physical risks to our critical infrastructure, including by ensuring a national workforce supply to support cybersecurity through education, training, and capacity development efforts;
(3)
to reestablish the technology leadership, security, and economic competitiveness of the United States, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency should create a sustainable pipeline by strengthening K–12 cybersecurity outreach and education nationwide.
(b)
Authorities
Section 2202(e)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 652(e)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(R)
To encourage and build cybersecurity awareness and competency across the United States and to develop, attract, and retain the cybersecurity workforce necessary for the cybersecurity related missions of the Department, including by—
(i)
overseeing K–12 cybersecurity education and awareness related programs at the agency;
(ii)
leading efforts to develop, attract, and retain the cybersecurity workforce necessary for the cybersecurity related missions of the Department;
(iii)
encouraging and building cybersecurity awareness and competency across the United States; and
(iv)
carrying out cybersecurity related workforce development activities, including through—
(I)
increasing the pipeline of future cybersecurity professionals through programs focused on K–12, higher education, and non-traditional students; and
(II)
building awareness of and competency in cybersecurity across the civilian Federal government workforce.
.
(c)
Education, training, and capacity development
Section 2202(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 652(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (11) as paragraph (12);
(2)
in paragraph (10), by striking
and
at the end; and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (10) the following:
(11)
provide education, training, and capacity development for Federal and non-Federal entities to enhance the security and resiliency of domestic and global cybersecurity and infrastructure security; and
.
(d)
Establishment of training programs
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 651
et seq.), as amended by section 6614 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
2217.
Cybersecurity Education and Training Programs
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
The Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program (referred to in this section as
CETAP
) is established within the Agency.
(2)
Purpose
The purpose of CETAP shall be to support the effort of the Agency in building and strengthening a national cybersecurity workforce pipeline capacity through enabling K–12 cybersecurity education, including by—
(A)
providing foundational cybersecurity awareness and literacy;
(B)
encouraging cybersecurity career exploration; and
(C)
supporting the teaching of cybersecurity skills at the K–12 levels.
(b)
Requirements
In carrying out CETAP, the Director shall—
(1)
ensure that the program—
(A)
creates and disseminates K–12 cybersecurity-focused curricula and career awareness materials;
(B)
conducts professional development sessions for teachers;
(C)
develops resources for the teaching of K–12 cybersecurity-focused curricula;
(D)
provides direct student engagement opportunities through camps and other programming;
(E)
engages with local and State education authorities to promote awareness of the program and ensure that offerings align with State and local standards;
(F)
integrates with existing post-secondary education and workforce development programs at the Department;
(G)
establishes and maintains national standards for K–12 cyber education;
(H)
partners with cybersecurity and education stakeholder groups to expand outreach; and
(I)
any other activity the Director determines necessary to meet the purpose described in subsection (a)(2); and
(2)
enable the deployment of CETAP nationwide, with special consideration for underserved populations or communities.
(c)
Briefings
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the establishment of CETAP, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives on the program.
(2)
Contents
Each briefing conducted under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A)
estimated figures on the number of students reached and teachers engaged;
(B)
information on community outreach and State engagement efforts;
(C)
information on new curricula offerings and teacher training platforms; and
(D)
information on coordination with post-secondary education and workforce development programs at the Department.
(d)
Mission promotion
The Director may use appropriated amounts to purchase promotional and recognition items and marketing and advertising services to publicize and promote the mission and services of the Agency, support the activities of the Agency, and to recruit and retain Agency personnel.
.
(e)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135), as so amended, is further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2216 the following:
Sec. 2217. Cybersecurity Education and Training Programs.
.
C
Nuclear Forces
6651.
Report on electromagnetic pulse hardening of ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on establishing requirements and protocols to ensure that the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system is hardened against electromagnetic pulses.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include a description of the following:
(1)
The testing protocols the ground-based strategic deterrent program will use for electromagnetic pulse testing.
(2)
How requirements for electromagnetic pulse hardness will be integrated into the ground-based strategic deterrent program.
(3)
Plans for electromagnetic pulse verification tests of the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.
(4)
Plans for electromagnetic pulse testing of nonmissile components of the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.
(5)
Plans to sustain electromagnetic pulse qualification of the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.
LXVII
Nuclear Energy Leadership
6701.
Advanced nuclear reactor research and development goals
(a)
In general
Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16271
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
959A.
Advanced nuclear reactor research and development goals
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Advanced nuclear reactor
The term
advanced nuclear reactor
means—
(A)
a nuclear fission reactor, including a prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)), with significant improvements compared to the most recent generation of fission reactors, including improvements such as—
(i)
additional inherent safety features;
(ii)
lower waste yields;
(iii)
improved fuel performance;
(iv)
increased tolerance to loss of fuel cooling;
(v)
enhanced reliability;
(vi)
increased proliferation resistance;
(vii)
increased thermal efficiency;
(viii)
reduced consumption of cooling water;
(ix)
the ability to integrate into electric applications and nonelectric applications;
(x)
modular sizes to allow for deployment that corresponds with the demand for electricity; or
(xi)
operational flexibility to respond to changes in demand for electricity and to complement integration with intermittent renewable energy; and
(B)
a fusion reactor.
(2)
Demonstration project
The term
demonstration project
means an advanced nuclear reactor operated in any manner, including as part of the power generation facilities of an electric utility system, for the purpose of demonstrating the suitability for commercial application of the advanced nuclear reactor.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this section is to direct the Secretary, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this section, to advance the research and development of domestic advanced, affordable, and clean nuclear energy by—
(1)
demonstrating different advanced nuclear reactor technologies that could be used by the private sector to produce—
(A)
emission-free power at a levelized cost of electricity of $60 per megawatt-hour or less;
(B)
heat for community heating, industrial purposes, or synthetic fuel production;
(C)
remote or off-grid energy supply; or
(D)
backup or mission-critical power supplies;
(2)
developing subgoals for nuclear energy research programs that would accomplish the goals of the demonstration projects carried out under subsection (c);
(3)
identifying research areas that the private sector is unable or unwilling to undertake due to the cost of, or risks associated with, the research; and
(4)
facilitating the access of the private sector—
(A)
to Federal research facilities and personnel; and
(B)
to the results of research relating to civil nuclear technology funded by the Federal Government.
(c)
Demonstration projects
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable—
(A)
enter into agreements to complete not fewer than 2 demonstration projects by not later than December 31, 2025; and
(B)
establish a program to enter into agreements to complete 1 additional operational demonstration project by not later than December 31, 2035.
(2)
Requirements
In carrying out demonstration projects under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
include diversity in designs for the advanced nuclear reactors demonstrated under this section, including designs using various—
(i)
primary coolants;
(ii)
fuel types and compositions; and
(iii)
neutron spectra;
(B)
seek to ensure that—
(i)
the long-term cost of electricity or heat for each design to be demonstrated under this subsection is cost-competitive in the applicable market;
(ii)
the selected projects can meet the deadline established in paragraph (1) to demonstrate first-of-a-kind advanced nuclear reactor technologies, for which additional information shall be considered, including—
(I)
the technology readiness level of a proposed advanced nuclear reactor technology;
(II)
the technical abilities and qualifications of teams desiring to demonstrate a proposed advanced nuclear reactor technology; and
(III)
the capacity to meet cost-share requirements of the Department;
(C)
ensure that each evaluation of candidate technologies for the demonstration projects is completed through an external review of proposed designs, which review shall—
(i)
be conducted by a panel that includes not fewer than 1 representative of each of—
(I)
an electric utility; and
(II)
an entity that uses high-temperature process heat for manufacturing or industrial processing, such as a petrochemical company, a manufacturer of metals, or a manufacturer of concrete;
(ii)
include a review of cost-competitiveness and other value streams, together with the technology readiness level, of each design to be demonstrated under this subsection; and
(iii)
not be required for a demonstration project that receives no financial assistance from the Department for construction costs;
(D)
for federally funded demonstration projects, enter into cost-sharing agreements with private sector partners in accordance with section 988 for the conduct of activities relating to the research, development, and demonstration of private-sector advanced nuclear reactor designs under the program;
(E)
work with private sector partners to identify potential sites, including Department-owned sites, for demonstrations, as appropriate;
(F)
align specific activities carried out under demonstration projects carried out under this subsection with priorities identified through direct consultations between—
(i)
the Department;
(ii)
National Laboratories;
(iii)
institutions of higher education;
(iv)
traditional end-users (such as electric utilities);
(v)
potential end-users of new technologies (such as users of high-temperature process heat for manufacturing processing, including petrochemical companies, manufacturers of metals, or manufacturers of concrete); and
(vi)
developers of advanced nuclear reactor technology; and
(G)
seek to ensure that the demonstration projects carried out under paragraph (1) do not cause any delay in a deployment of an advanced reactor by private industry and the Department that is underway as of the date of enactment of this section.
(3)
Additional requirements
In carrying out demonstration projects under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
identify candidate technologies that—
(i)
are not developed sufficiently for demonstration within the initial required timeframe described in paragraph (1)(A); but
(ii)
could be demonstrated within the timeframe described in paragraph (1)(B);
(B)
identify technical challenges to the candidate technologies identified in subparagraph (A);
(C)
support near-term research and development to address the highest-risk technical challenges to the successful demonstration of a selected advanced reactor technology, in accordance with—
(i)
subparagraph (B); and
(ii)
the research and development activities under sections 952 and 958;
(D)
establish such technology advisory working groups as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to advise the Secretary regarding the technical challenges identified under subparagraph (B) and the scope of research and development programs to address the challenges, in accordance with subparagraph (C), to be comprised of—
(i)
private-sector advanced nuclear reactor technology developers;
(ii)
technical experts with respect to the relevant technologies at institutions of higher education; and
(iii)
technical experts at the National Laboratories.
(d)
Goals
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish goals for research relating to advanced nuclear reactors facilitated by the Department that support the objectives of the program for demonstration projects established under subsection (c).
(2)
Coordination
In developing the goals under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate, on an ongoing basis, with members of private industry to advance the demonstration of various designs of advanced nuclear reactors.
(3)
Requirements
In developing the goals under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that—
(A)
research activities facilitated by the Department to meet the goals developed under this subsection are focused on key areas of nuclear research and deployment ranging from basic science to full-design development, safety evaluation, and licensing;
(B)
research programs designed to meet the goals emphasize—
(i)
resolving materials challenges relating to extreme environments, including extremely high levels of—
(I)
radiation fluence;
(II)
temperature;
(III)
pressure; and
(IV)
corrosion; and
(ii)
qualification of advanced fuels;
(C)
activities are carried out that address near-term challenges in modeling and simulation to enable accelerated design and licensing;
(D)
related technologies, such as technologies to manage, reduce, or reuse nuclear waste, are developed;
(E)
nuclear research infrastructure is maintained or constructed, such as—
(i)
currently operational research reactors at the National Laboratories and institutions of higher education;
(ii)
hot cell research facilities;
(iii)
a versatile fast neutron source; and
(iv)
a molten salt testing facility;
(F)
basic knowledge of non-light water coolant physics and chemistry is improved;
(G)
advanced sensors and control systems are developed; and
(H)
advanced manufacturing and advanced construction techniques and materials are investigated to reduce the cost of advanced nuclear reactors.
.
(b)
Table of contents
The table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
Public Law 109–58
; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) is amended—
(1)
in the item relating to section 917, by striking
Efficiency
;
(2)
in the items relating to each of sections 957, 958, and 959 by inserting
Sec.
before the item number; and
(3)
by inserting after the item relating to section 959 the following:
Sec. 959A. Advanced nuclear reactor research and development goals.
.
6702.
Nuclear energy strategic plan
(a)
In general
Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16271
et seq.) (as amended by section 6701(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
959B.
Nuclear energy strategic plan
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a 10-year strategic plan for the Office of Nuclear Energy of the Department, in accordance with this section.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Components
The strategic plan under this section shall designate—
(A)
programs that support the planned accomplishment of—
(i)
the goals established under section 959A; and
(ii)
the demonstration programs identified under subsection (c) of that section; and
(B)
programs that—
(i)
do not support the planned accomplishment of demonstration programs, or the goals, referred to in subparagraph (A); but
(ii)
are important to the mission of the Office of Nuclear Energy, as determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Program planning
In developing the strategic plan under this section, the Secretary shall specify expected timelines for, as applicable—
(A)
the accomplishment of relevant objectives under current programs of the Department; or
(B)
the commencement of new programs to accomplish those objectives.
(c)
Updates
Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives an updated 10-year strategic plan in accordance with subsection (b), which shall identify, and provide a justification for, any major deviation from a previous strategic plan submitted under this section.
.
(b)
Table of contents
The table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
Public Law 109–58
; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) (as amended by section 6701(b)(3)) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 959A the following:
Sec. 959B. Nuclear energy strategic plan.
.
6703.
Versatile, reactor-based fast neutron source
Section 955(c)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16275(c)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in the paragraph heading, by striking
Mission need
and inserting
Authorization
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
determine the mission need
and inserting
provide
.
6704.
Advanced nuclear fuel security program
(a)
In general
Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16271
et seq.) (as amended by section 6702(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
960.
Advanced nuclear fuel security program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
HALEU transportation package
The term
HALEU transportation package
means a transportation package that is suitable for transporting high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
(2)
High-assay, low-enriched uranium
The term
high-assay, low-enriched uranium
means uranium with an assay greater than 5 weight percent, but less than 20 weight percent, of the uranium-235 isotope.
(3)
High-enriched uranium
The term
high-enriched uranium
means uranium with an assay of 20 weight percent or more of the uranium-235 isotope.
(b)
High-Assay, low-Enriched uranium program for advanced reactors
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a program to make available high-assay, low-enriched uranium, through contracts for sale, resale, transfer, or lease, for use in commercial or noncommercial advanced nuclear reactors.
(2)
Nuclear fuel ownership
Each lease under this subsection shall include a provision establishing that the high-assay, low-enriched uranium that is the subject of the lease shall remain the property of the Department, including with respect to responsibility for the storage, use, or final disposition of all radioactive waste created by the irradiation, processing, or purification of any leased high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
(3)
Quantity
In carrying out the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall make available—
(A)
by December 31, 2022, high-assay, low-enriched uranium containing not less than 2 metric tons of the uranium-235 isotope; and
(B)
by December 31, 2025, high-assay, low-enriched uranium containing not less than 10 metric tons of the uranium-235 isotope (as determined including the quantities of the uranium-235 isotope made available before December 31, 2022).
(4)
Factors for consideration
In carrying out the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall take into consideration—
(A)
options for providing the high-assay, low-enriched uranium under this subsection from a stockpile of uranium owned by the Department (including the National Nuclear Security Administration), including—
(i)
fuel that—
(I)
directly meets the needs of an end-user; but
(II)
has been previously used or fabricated for another purpose;
(ii)
fuel that can meet the needs of an end-user after removing radioactive or other contaminants that resulted from a previous use or fabrication of the fuel for research, development, demonstration, or deployment activities of the Department (including activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration); and
(iii)
fuel from a high-enriched uranium stockpile, which can be blended with lower-assay uranium to become high-assay, low-enriched uranium to meet the needs of an end-user; and
(B)
requirements to support molybdenum-99 production under the American Medical Isotopes Production Act of 2012 (
Public Law 112–239
; 126 Stat. 2211).
(5)
Limitations
(A)
Final disposition of radioactive waste
The Secretary shall not barter or otherwise sell or transfer uranium in any form in exchange for services relating to the final disposition of radioactive waste from uranium that is the subject of a lease under this subsection.
(B)
National security needs
The Secretary shall only make available from Department stockpiles under this subsection high-assay, low-enriched uranium that is not needed for national security.
(6)
Sunset
The program under this subsection shall terminate on the earlier of—
(A)
January 1, 2035; and
(B)
the date on which uranium enriched up to, but not equal to, 20 weight percent can be obtained in the commercial market from domestic suppliers.
(c)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that describes actions proposed to be carried out by the Secretary—
(A)
under the program under subsection (b); or
(B)
otherwise to enable the commercial use of high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
(2)
Coordination and stakeholder input
In developing the report under this subsection, the Secretary shall seek input from—
(A)
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
(B)
the National Laboratories;
(C)
institutions of higher education;
(D)
producers of medical isotopes;
(E)
a diverse group of entities operating in the nuclear energy industry; and
(F)
a diverse group of technology developers.
(3)
Cost and schedule estimates
The report under this subsection shall include estimated costs, budgets, and timeframes for enabling the use of high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
(4)
Required evaluations
The report under this subsection shall evaluate—
(A)
the costs and actions required to establish and carry out the program under subsection (b), including with respect to—
(i)
proposed preliminary terms for the sale, resale, transfer, and leasing of high-assay, low-enriched uranium (including guidelines defining the roles and responsibilities between the Department and the purchaser, transfer recipient, or lessee); and
(ii)
the potential to coordinate with purchasers, transfer recipients, and lessees regarding—
(I)
fuel fabrication; and
(II)
fuel transport;
(B)
the potential sources and fuel forms available to provide uranium for the program under subsection (b);
(C)
options to coordinate the program under subsection (b) with the operation of the versatile reactor-based fast neutron source under section 955(c)(1);
(D)
the ability of the domestic uranium market to provide materials for advanced nuclear reactor fuel; and
(E)
any associated legal, regulatory, and policy issues that should be addressed to enable—
(i)
the program under subsection (b); and
(ii)
the establishment of a domestic industry capable of providing high-assay, low-enriched uranium for commercial and noncommercial purposes, including with respect to the needs of—
(I)
the Department;
(II)
the Department of Defense; and
(III)
the National Nuclear Security Administration.
(d)
HALEU transportation package research program
(1)
In general
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a research, development, and demonstration program under which the Secretary shall provide financial assistance, on a competitive basis, to establish the capability to transport high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
(2)
Requirement
The focus of the program under this subsection shall be to establish 1 or more HALEU transportation packages that can be certified by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to transport high-assay, low-enriched uranium to the various facilities involved in producing or using nuclear fuel containing high-assay, low-enriched uranium, such as—
(A)
enrichment facilities;
(B)
fuel processing facilities;
(C)
fuel fabrication facilities; and
(D)
nuclear reactors.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
Public Law 109–58
; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) (as amended by section 6702(b)) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 959B the following:
Sec. 960. Advanced nuclear fuel security program.
.
6705.
University Nuclear Leadership Program
Section 313 of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009 (
42 U.S.C. 16274a
) is amended to read as follows:
313.
University Nuclear Leadership Program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Advanced nuclear reactor
The term
advanced nuclear reactor
means—
(A)
a nuclear fission reactor, including a prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)), with significant improvements compared to the most recent generation of fission reactors, including improvements such as—
(i)
additional inherent safety features;
(ii)
lower waste yields;
(iii)
improved fuel performance;
(iv)
increased tolerance to loss of fuel cooling;
(v)
enhanced reliability;
(vi)
increased proliferation resistance;
(vii)
increased thermal efficiency;
(viii)
reduced consumption of cooling water;
(ix)
the ability to integrate into electric applications and nonelectric applications;
(x)
modular sizes to allow for deployment that corresponds with the demand for electricity; or
(xi)
operational flexibility to respond to changes in demand for electricity and to complement integration with intermittent renewable energy; and
(B)
a fusion reactor.
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
(3)
Program
The term
Program
means the University Nuclear Leadership Program established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
The Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall jointly establish a program, to be known as the
University Nuclear Leadership Program
.
(c)
Use of funds
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), amounts made available to carry out the Program shall be used to provide financial assistance for scholarships, fellowships, and research and development projects at institutions of higher education in areas relevant to the programmatic mission of the applicable Federal agency, with an emphasis on providing the financial assistance with respect to research, development, demonstration, and deployment activities for technologies relevant to advanced nuclear reactors, including relevant fuel cycle technologies.
(2)
Exception
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), amounts made available to carry out the Program may be used to provide financial assistance for a scholarship, fellowship, or multiyear research and development project that does not align directly with a programmatic mission of the applicable Federal agency providing the financial assistance, if the activity for which assistance is provided would facilitate the maintenance of the discipline of nuclear science or engineering.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter—
(1)
$30,000,000 to the Secretary of Energy; and
(2)
$15,000,000 to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
.
6706.
Adjusting strategic petroleum reserve mandated drawdowns
(a)
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
Section 403(a) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (
42 U.S.C. 6241
note;
Public Law 114–74
) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (6);
(2)
by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; and
(3)
in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by striking
10,000,000
and inserting
20,000,000
.
(b)
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act
Section 32204(a)(1) of the FAST Act (
42 U.S.C. 6241
note;
Public Law 114–94
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B)—
(A)
by striking
16,000,000
and inserting
11,000,000
; and
(B)
by striking
2023
and inserting
2022
; and
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
25,000,000
and inserting
30,000,000
.
(c)
America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018
Section 3009(a)(1) of America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (
42 U.S.C. 6241
note;
Public Law 115–270
) is amended by striking
2028
and inserting
2030.
(d)
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018
Section 30204(a)(1) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (
42 U.S.C. 6241
note;
Public Law 115–123
) is amended by striking subparagraphs (A) through (C) and inserting the following:
(A)
7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal year 2022;
(B)
7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal year 2024;
(C)
15,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal year 2025;
(D)
30,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal year 2029; and
(E)
40,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal year 2030.
.
(e)
Reconciliation on the budget for 2018
Section 20003(a)(1) of
Public Law 115–97
(
42 U.S.C. 6241
note) is amended by striking
the period of fiscal years 2026 through 2027
and inserting
fiscal year 2030
.
LXXVIII
Military Construction and General Provisions
A
Military Construction Program
7801.
Modification to authority for military construction projects for child development centers at military installations
Section 2809(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
and annually thereafter,
after
this Act,
; and
(2)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
the report
and inserting
a report
; and
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by inserting
in which the project is included
before the period at the end.
7802.
Modification of construction of ground-based strategic deterrent launch facilities and launch centers for the Air Force
Subsection (e) of section 2802 is deemed to read as follows:
(e)
Funding
(1)
In general
Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may expend not more than $15,000,000 for the purposes of planning and design to support the projects described in subsection (a).
(2)
Increase
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for military construction for the Air Force is hereby increased by $15,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be designated to Air Force, Unspecified Worldwide Locations, Planning and Design.
(3)
Offset
The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Army is hereby reduced by $15,000,000, with the amount of the reduction to be derived from subactivity group 421, Servicewide Transportation.
.
B
Military Family Housing
7821.
Inclusion of assessment of performance metrics in annual publication on use of incentive fees for privatized military housing projects
(a)
In general
Section 2891c of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by striking the section heading and inserting the following:
Transparency regarding finances and performance metrics
;
(2)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by inserting
performance metrics and
before
use of incentive fees
;
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
publicly accessible website, information
and inserting “publicly accessible website—
(A)
for each contract for the provision or management of housing units—
(i)
an assessment of indicators underlying the performance metrics under such contract to ensure such indicators adequately measure the condition and quality of the home or homes covered by the contract, including—
(I)
resident satisfaction;
(II)
maintenance management;
(III)
project safety; and
(IV)
financial management; and
(ii)
a detailed description of each indicator assessed under subparagraph (A), including an indication of—
(I)
the limitations of available survey data;
(II)
how resident satisfaction and maintenance management is calculated; and
(III)
whether data is missing; and
(B)
information
; and
(C)
in paragraph (2), by striking
paragraph (1)
and inserting
paragraph (1)(B)
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of chapter 169 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2891c and inserting the following new item:
2891c. Transparency regarding finances and performance metrics.
.
D
Land Conveyances
7861.
Establishment of interagency committees on joint use of certain land withdrawn from appropriation under public land laws
(a)
Interagency executive committee on joint use by Department of the Navy and Department of the Interior of Naval Air Station Fallon Ranges
Section 3011(a) of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 885) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Intergovernmental executive committee
(A)
Establishment
The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly establish, by memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental executive committee (referred to in this paragraph as the
executive committee
), for the purpose of exchanging views, information, and advice relating to the management of the natural and cultural resources of the land described in paragraph (2).
(B)
Memorandum of understanding
The memorandum of understanding entered into under subparagraph (A) shall include—
(i)
a description of the officials and other individuals to be invited to participate as members in the executive committee under subparagraph (C);
(ii)
a description of the duties of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the executive committee; and
(iii)
subject to subparagraphs (D) and (E), a procedure for—
(I)
creating a forum to carry out the purpose described in subparagraph (A);
(II)
rotating the Chairperson of the executive committee; and
(III)
scheduling regular meetings of the executive committee.
(C)
Membership
The executive committee shall be comprised of—
(i)
1 representative of the Nevada Department of Wildlife;
(ii)
1 representative of the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources;
(iii)
1 county commissioner from each of Churchill, Lyon, Nye, Mineral, and Pershing Counties, Nevada;
(iv)
1 representative of each Indian tribe in the vicinity of the land described in paragraph (2); and
(v)
not more than 3 members that the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior jointly determine would advance the goals and objectives of the executive committee.
(D)
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
The members of the executive committee shall elect from among the members—
(i)
1 member to serve as Chairperson of the executive committee; and
(ii)
1 member to serve as Vice Chairperson of the executive committee.
(E)
Meetings
(i)
Frequency
The executive committee shall meet not less frequently than 3 times each calendar year.
(ii)
Location
The location of the meetings of the executive committee shall rotate to facilitate ease of access for all members of the executive committee.
(iii)
Public accessibility
The meetings of the executive committee shall—
(I)
be open to the public; and
(II)
serve as a forum for the public to provide comments regarding the natural and cultural resources of the land described in paragraph (2).
(F)
Conditions and terms
(i)
In general
Each member of the executive committee shall serve voluntarily and without compensation.
(ii)
Term of appointment
(I)
In general
Except as provided in subclause (II)(bb), each member of the executive committee shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
(II)
Original members
Of the members initially appointed to the executive committee, the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall select—
(aa)
½ to serve for a term of 4 years; and
(bb)
½ to serve for a term of 2 years.
(iii)
Reappointment and replacement
The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior may reappoint or replace, as appropriate, a member of the executive committee if—
(I)
the term of the member has expired;
(II)
the member has resigned; or
(III)
the position held by the member has changed to the extent that the ability of the member to represent the group or entity that the member represents has been significantly affected.
(G)
Liaisons
The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall each appoint appropriate operational and land management personnel of the Department of the Navy and the Department of the Interior, respectively, to serve as liaisons to the executive committee.
.
(b)
Joint access and use by Department of the Air Force and Department of the Interior of Nevada Test and Training Range and Desert National Wildlife Refuge
(1)
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and Department of the Air Force coordination
Section 3011(b)(5) of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (
Public Law 106–65
; 113 Stat. 887) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(G)
Interagency committee
(i)
In general
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly establish an interagency committee (referred to in this subparagraph as the
interagency committee
) to facilitate coordination, manage public access needs and requirements, and minimize potential conflict between the Department of the Interior and the Department of the Air Force with respect to joint operating areas within the Desert National Wildlife Refuge.
(ii)
Membership
The interagency committee shall include only the following members:
(I)
Representatives from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
(II)
Representatives from the Department of the Air Force.
(III)
The Project Leader of the Desert National Wildlife Refuge Complex.
(IV)
The Commander of the Nevada Test and Training Range, Nellis Air Force Base.
(iii)
Report to Congress
The interagency committee shall biannually submit to the Committees on Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and make available publicly online, a report on the activities of the interagency committee.
.
(2)
Intergovernmental executive committee
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(H)
Intergovernmental executive committee
(i)
Establishment
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly establish, by memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental executive committee (referred to in this subparagraph as the
executive committee
) in accordance with this subparagraph.
(ii)
Purpose
The executive committee shall be established for the purposes of—
(I)
exchanging views, information, and advice relating to the management of the natural and cultural resources of the lands withdrawn and reserved by this section; and
(II)
discussing and making recommendations to the interagency committee established under subparagraph (G) with respect to public access needs and requirements.
(iii)
Composition
The executive committee shall comprise the following members:
(I)
Federal agencies
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall each appoint 1 representative from an interested Federal agency.
(II)
State government
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly invite 1 representative of the Nevada Department of Wildlife.
(III)
Local governments
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly invite 1 county commissioner of each of Clark, Nye, and Lincoln Counties, Nevada.
(IV)
Tribal governments
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly invite 1 representative of each Indian tribe in the vicinity of the portions of the joint use area of the Desert National Wildlife Refuge where the Secretary of the Interior exercises primary jurisdiction.
(V)
Public
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall jointly invite not more than 3 private individuals who the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force jointly determine would further the goals and objectives of the executive committee.
(VI)
Additional members
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force may designate such additional members as the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force jointly determine to be appropriate.
(iv)
Operation
The executive committee shall operate in accordance with the terms set forth in the memorandum of understanding under clause (i), which shall specify the officials or other individuals to be invited to participate in the executive committee in accordance with clause (iii).
(v)
Procedures
Subject to clauses (vi) and (vii), the memorandum of understanding under clause (i) shall establish procedures for—
(I)
creating a forum for carrying out the purpose described in clause (ii);
(II)
rotating the Chairperson of the executive committee; and
(III)
scheduling regular meetings.
(vi)
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
(I)
In general
The members of the executive committee shall elect from among the members—
(aa)
1 member to serve as the Chairperson of the executive committee; and
(bb)
1 member to serve as the Vice Chairperson of the executive committee.
(II)
Duties
The duties of each of the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall be included in the memorandum of understanding under clause (i).
(vii)
Meetings
(I)
Frequency
The executive committee shall meet not less frequently than 3 times each calendar year.
(II)
Meeting locations
Locations of meetings of the executive committee shall rotate to facilitate ease of access for all executive committee members.
(III)
Public accessibility
Meetings of the executive committee shall—
(aa)
be open to the public; and
(bb)
provide a forum for the public to provide comment regarding the management of, and public access to, the Nevada Test and Training Range and the Desert National Wildlife Refuge.
(viii)
Conditions and terms of appointment
(I)
In general
Each member of the executive committee shall serve voluntarily and without compensation.
(II)
Term of appointment
(aa)
In general
Each member of the executive committee shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
(bb)
Original members
Notwithstanding item (aa), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall select—
(AA)
½ of the original members of the executive committee to serve for a term of 4 years; and
(BB)
½ of the original members of the executive committee to serve for a term of 2 years.
(III)
Reappointment and replacement
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force may reappoint or replace a member of the executive committee if—
(aa)
the term of the member has expired;
(bb)
the member has resigned; or
(cc)
the position held by the member has changed to the extent that the ability of the member to represent the group or entity that the member represents has been significantly affected.
(ix)
Liaisons
The Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Interior shall each appoint appropriate operational and land management personnel of the Department of the Air Force and the Department of the Interior, respectively, to participate in, and serve as liaisons to, the executive committee.
.
7862.
Lease extension for Bryan Multi-Sports Complex, Wayne County, North Carolina
(a)
Authority
The Secretary of the Air Force may extend to the City of Goldsboro the existing lease of the approximately 62-acre Bryan Multi-Sports Complex located in Wayne County, North Carolina, for the purpose of operating a sports and recreation facility for the benefit of both the Air Force and the community.
(b)
Duration
At the option of the Secretary of the Air Force, the lease entered into under this section may be extended for up to 30 additional years with a total lease period not to exceed 50 years.
(c)
Payments under the lease
The Secretary of the Air Force may waive the requirement under section 2667(b)(4) of title 10, United States Code, with respect to the lease entered into under this section if the Secretary determines that the lease enhances the quality of life of members of the Armed Forces.
(d)
Sense of Senate
It is the Sense of the Senate regarding the conditions governing the extension of the current lease for the Bryan Multi-Sports Complex that—
(1)
the Senate has determined it is in the best interest of the community and the Air Force to extend the lease at no cost;
(2)
the current lease allowed the Air Force to close their sports field on Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base and resulted in a savings of $15,000 per year in utilities and grounds maintenance costs;
(3)
the current sports complex reduces force protection vulnerability now that the sports complex is located outside the fence line of the installation; and
(4)
the facility has improved the quality of life for military families stationed at Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base by allowing members of the Armed Forces and their families to have access to world class sports facilities located adjacent to the installation and on-base privatized housing with easy access by junior enlisted members residing in the dorms.
E
Other Matters
7881.
Sense of Congress on relocation of Joint Spectrum Center
It is the Sense of Congress that Congress strongly recommends that the Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency begin the process for the relocation of the Joint Spectrum Center of the Department of Defense to the building at Fort Meade that is allocated for such center.
LXXXI
Department of Energy National Security Programs
F
Other Matters
8159.
Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of uranium from Russian Federation
Section 3158 and the amendments made by that section shall have no force or effect.
F
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
9001.
Short title
This division may be cited as the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
9002.
Definitions
In this division:
(1)
Congressional intelligence committees
The term
congressional intelligence committees
has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
(2)
Intelligence community
The term
intelligence community
has the meaning given such term in such section.
XCI
Intelligence activities
9101.
Authorization of appropriations
Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the following elements of the United States Government:
(1)
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3)
The Department of Defense.
(4)
The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5)
The National Security Agency.
(6)
The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force.
(7)
The Coast Guard.
(8)
The Department of State.
(9)
The Department of the Treasury.
(10)
The Department of Energy.
(11)
The Department of Justice.
(12)
The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13)
The Drug Enforcement Administration.
(14)
The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15)
The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
(16)
The Department of Homeland Security.
9102.
Classified Schedule of Authorizations
(a)
Specifications of amounts
The amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 9101 for the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 9101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany this division.
(b)
Availability of classified Schedule of Authorizations
(1)
Availability
The classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the President.
(2)
Distribution by the President
Subject to paragraph (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, within the executive branch of the Federal Government.
(3)
Limits on disclosure
The President shall not publicly disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of such Schedule except—
(A)
as provided in section 601(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (
50 U.S.C. 3306(a)
);
(B)
to the extent necessary to implement the budget; or
(C)
as otherwise required by law.
9103.
Intelligence Community Management Account
(a)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2021 the sum of $731,200,000.
(b)
Classified authorization of appropriations
In addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for fiscal year 2021 such additional amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 9102(a).
XCII
Central Intelligence Agency retirement and disability system
9201.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
XCIII
Intelligence community matters
A
General intelligence community matters
9301.
Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities
The authorization of appropriations by this division shall not be deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
9302.
Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by law
Appropriations authorized by this division for salary, pay, retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
9303.
Clarification of authorities and responsibilities of National Manager for National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security
In carrying out the authorities and responsibilities of the National Manager for National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security under National Security Directive 42 (signed by the President on July 5, 1990), the National Manager shall not supervise, oversee, or execute, either directly or indirectly, any aspect of the National Intelligence Program.
9304.
Continuity of operations plans for certain elements of the intelligence community in the case of a national emergency
(a)
Definition of covered national emergency
In this section, the term
covered national emergency
means the following:
(1)
A major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
).
(2)
An emergency declared by the President under section 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5191
).
(3)
A national emergency declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.).
(4)
A public health emergency declared under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
).
(b)
In general
The Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall each establish continuity of operations plans for use in the case of covered national emergencies for the element of the intelligence community concerned.
(c)
Submission to Congress
(1)
Director of National Intelligence and Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
Not later than 7 days after the date on which a covered national emergency is declared, the Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall each submit to the congressional intelligence committees the plan established under subsection (b) for that emergency for the element of the intelligence community concerned.
(2)
Director of National Reconnaissance Office, Director of Defense Intelligence Agency, Director of National Security Agency, and Director of National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
Not later than 7 days after the date on which a covered national emergency is declared, the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall each submit the plan established under subsection (b) for that emergency for the element of the intelligence community concerned to the following:
(A)
The congressional intelligence committees.
(B)
The Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
(C)
The Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(d)
Updates
During a covered national emergency, the Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall each submit any updates to the plans submitted under subsection (c)—
(1)
in accordance with that subsection; and
(2)
in a timely manner consistent with section 501 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091
).
9305.
Application of Executive Schedule level III to position of Director of National Reconnaissance Office
Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.
.
9306.
National Intelligence University
(a)
In general
Title X of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3191
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
D
National Intelligence University
1031.
Transfer date
In this subtitle, the term
transfer date
means the date on which the National Intelligence University is transferred from the Defense Intelligence Agency to the Director of National Intelligence under section 5324(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
1032.
Degree-granting authority
(a)
In general
Beginning on the transfer date, under regulations prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence, the President of the National Intelligence University may, upon the recommendation of the faculty of the University, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates who meet the degree requirements.
(b)
Limitation
A degree may not be conferred under this section unless—
(1)
the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
(2)
the University is accredited by the appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization to award the degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.
(c)
Congressional notification requirements
(1)
Actions on nonaccreditation
Beginning on the transfer date, the Director shall promptly—
(A)
notify the congressional intelligence committees of any action by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, or other appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization, to not accredit the University to award any new or existing degree; and
(B)
submit to such committees a report containing an explanation of any such action.
(2)
Modification or redesignation of degree-granting authority
Beginning on the transfer date, upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree-granting authority, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report containing—
(A)
the rationale for the proposed modification or redesignation; and
(B)
any subsequent recommendation of the Secretary of Education with respect to the proposed modification or redesignation.
1033.
Faculty members; employment and compensation
(a)
Authority of Director
Beginning on the transfer date, the Director of National Intelligence may employ as many professors, instructors, and lecturers at the National Intelligence University as the Director considers necessary.
(b)
Compensation of faculty members
The compensation of persons employed under this section shall be as prescribed by the Director.
(c)
Compensation plan
The Director shall provide each person employed as a professor, instructor, or lecturer at the University on the transfer date an opportunity to elect to be paid under the compensation plan in effect on the day before the transfer date (with no reduction in pay) or under the authority of this section.
1034.
Acceptance of faculty research grants
The Director of National Intelligence may authorize the President of the National Intelligence University to accept qualifying research grants in the same manner and to the same degree as the President of the National Defense University under section 2165(e) of title 10, United States Code.
1035.
Continued applicability of the Federal Advisory Committee Act to the Board of Visitors
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall continue to apply to the Board of Visitors of the National Intelligence University on and after the transfer date.
.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Section 5324 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking
subsection (e)(2)
and inserting
section 1032(b) of the National Security Act of 1947
;
(2)
by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
(3)
by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1024 the following:
Subtitle D—National Intelligence University
Sec. 1031. Transfer date.
Sec. 1032. Degree-granting authority.
Sec. 1033. Faculty members; employment and compensation.
Sec. 1034. Acceptance of faculty research grants.
Sec. 1035. Continued applicability of the Federal Advisory Committee Act to the Board of Visitors.
.
9307.
Requiring facilitation of establishment of Social Media Data and Threat Analysis Center
(a)
Requirement to facilitate establishment
Subsection (c)(1) of section 5323 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended, by striking
may
and inserting
shall
.
(b)
Deadline to facilitate establishment
Such subsection is further amended by striking
The Director
and inserting
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
, the Director
.
(c)
Conforming amendments
(1)
Reporting
Subsection (d) of such section is amended—
(A)
in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking
If the Director
and all that follows through
the Center, the
and inserting
The
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1), by striking
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act
and inserting
180 days after the date of the enactment of the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
.
(2)
Funding
Subsection (f) of such section is amended by striking
fiscal year 2020 and 2021
and inserting
fiscal year 2021 and 2022
.
(3)
Clerical
Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
(A)
in the subsection heading, by striking
Authority
and inserting
Requirement
; and
(B)
in paragraph (1), in the paragraph heading, by striking
Authority
and inserting
Requirement
.
9308.
Data collection on attrition in intelligence community
(a)
Standards for data collection
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish standards for collecting data relating to attrition in the intelligence community workforce across demographics, specialities, and length of service.
(2)
Inclusion of certain candidates
The Director shall include, in the standards established under paragraph (1), standards for collecting data from candidates who accepted conditional offers of employment but chose to withdraw from the hiring process before entering into service, including data with respect to the reasons such candidates chose to withdraw.
(b)
Collection of data
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each element of the intelligence community shall begin collecting data on workforce and candidate attrition in accordance with the standards established under subsection (a).
(c)
Annual report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on workforce and candidate attrition in the intelligence community that includes—
(1)
the findings of the Director based on the data collected under subsection (b);
(2)
recommendations for addressing any issues identified in those findings; and
(3)
an assessment of timeliness in processing hiring applications of individuals previously employed by an element of the intelligence community, consistent with the Trusted Workforce 2.0 initiative sponsored by the Security Clearance, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability Council.
9309.
Limitation on delegation of responsibility for program management of information-sharing environment
(a)
In general
Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
6 U.S.C. 485(b)
), as amended by section 6402(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
), is further amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), in the matter before subparagraph (A), by striking
Director of National Intelligence
and inserting
President
;
(2)
in paragraph (2), by striking
Director of National Intelligence
both places it appears and inserting
President
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Delegation
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), the President may delegate responsibility for carrying out this subsection.
(B)
Limitation
The President may not delegate responsibility for carrying out this subsection to the Director of National Intelligence.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2020.
9310.
Improvements to provisions relating to intelligence community information technology environment
Section 6312 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
) is amended by striking subsections (e) through (i) and inserting the following:
(e)
Long-term roadmap
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the Director of National Intelligence shall develop and maintain a long-term roadmap for the intelligence community information technology environment.
(f)
Business plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the Director of National Intelligence shall develop and maintain a business plan to implement the long-term roadmap required by subsection (e).
.
9311.
Requirements and authorities for Director of the Central Intelligence Agency to improve education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics
The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (
50 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.) is amended by adding the following:
24.
Improvement of education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
includes a department or agency of the Federal Government, a State, a political subdivision of a State, an individual, and a not-for-profit or other organization in the private sector.
(2)
Educational institution
The term
educational institution
includes any public or private elementary school or secondary school, institution of higher education, college, university, or any other profit or nonprofit institution that is dedicated to improving science, technology, engineering, the arts, mathematics, business, law, medicine, or other fields that promote development and education relating to science, technology, engineering, the arts, or mathematics.
(3)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
(b)
Requirements
The Director shall, on a continuing basis—
(1)
identify actions that the Director may take to improve education in the scientific, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics (known as
STEAM
) skills necessary to meet the long-term national security needs of the United States for personnel proficient in such skills; and
(2)
establish and conduct programs to carry out such actions.
(c)
Authorities
(1)
In general
The Director, in support of educational programs in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics, may—
(A)
award grants to eligible entities;
(B)
provide cash awards and other items to eligible entities;
(C)
accept voluntary services from eligible entities;
(D)
support national competition judging, other educational event activities, and associated award ceremonies in connection with such educational programs; and
(E)
enter into one or more education partnership agreements with educational institutions in the United States for the purpose of encouraging and enhancing study in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics disciplines at all levels of education.
(2)
Education partnership agreements
(A)
Nature of assistance provided
Under an education partnership agreement entered into with an educational institution under paragraph (1)(E), the Director may provide assistance to the educational institution by—
(i)
loaning equipment to the educational institution for any purpose and duration in support of such agreement that the Director considers appropriate;
(ii)
making personnel available to teach science courses or to assist in the development of science courses and materials for the educational institution;
(iii)
providing sabbatical opportunities for faculty and internship opportunities for students;
(iv)
involving faculty and students of the educational institution in Agency projects, including research and technology transfer or transition projects;
(v)
cooperating with the educational institution in developing a program under which students may be given academic credit for work on Agency projects, including research and technology transfer for transition projects; and
(vi)
providing academic and career advice and assistance to students of the educational institution.
(B)
Priorities
In entering into education partnership agreements under paragraph (1)(E), the Director shall prioritize entering into education partnership agreements with the following:
(i)
Historically Black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions, as described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)
).
(ii)
Educational institutions serving women, members of minority groups, and other groups of individuals who traditionally are involved in the science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics professions in disproportionately low numbers.
(d)
Designation of advisor
The Director shall designate one or more individuals within the Agency to advise and assist the Director regarding matters relating to science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics education and training.
.
B
Reports and assessments pertaining to intelligence community
9321.
Assessment by the Comptroller General of the United States on efforts of the intelligence community and the Department of Defense to identify and mitigate risks posed to the intelligence community and the Department by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the Government of the People's Republic of China
(a)
Assessment required
The Comptroller General of the United States shall assess the efforts of the intelligence community and the Department of Defense to identify and mitigate the risks posed to the intelligence community and the Department by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
(b)
Report required
(1)
Definition of United States direct-to-consumer genetic testing company
In this subsection, the term
United States direct-to-consumer genetic testing company
means a private entity that—
(A)
carries out direct-to-consumer genetic testing; and
(B)
is organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States.
(2)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress, including the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, a report on the assessment required by subsection (a).
(3)
Elements
The report required by paragraph (2) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of key national security risks and vulnerabilities associated with direct-to-consumer genetic testing, including—
(i)
how the Government of the People's Republic of China may be using data provided by personnel of the intelligence community and the Department through direct-to-consumer genetic tests; and
(ii)
how ubiquitous technical surveillance may amplify those risks.
(B)
An assessment of the extent to which the intelligence community and the Department have identified risks and vulnerabilities posed by direct-to-consumer genetic testing and have sought to mitigate such risks and vulnerabilities, or have plans for such mitigation, including the extent to which the intelligence community has determined—
(i)
in which United States direct-to-consumer genetic testing companies the Government of the People's Republic of China or entities owned or controlled by the Government of the People's Republic of China have an ownership interest; and
(ii)
which United States direct-to-consumer genetic testing companies may have sold data to the Government of the People's Republic of China or entities owned or controlled by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
(C)
Such recommendations as the Comptroller General may have for action by the intelligence community and the Department to improve the identification and mitigation of risks and vulnerabilities posed by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
(4)
Form
The report required by paragraph (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Cooperation
The heads of relevant elements of the intelligence community and components of the Department shall—
(1)
fully cooperate with the Comptroller General in conducting the assessment required by subsection (a); and
(2)
provide any information and data required by the Comptroller General to conduct the assessment.
9322.
Report on use by intelligence community of hiring flexibilities and expedited human resources practices to assure quality and diversity in the workforce of the intelligence community
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on how elements of the intelligence community are exercising hiring flexibilities and expedited human resources practices afforded under section 3326 of title 5, United States Code, and subpart D of part 315 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulation, to assure quality and diversity in the workforce of the intelligence community.
(b)
Obstacles
The report submitted under subsection (a) shall include identification of any obstacles encountered by the intelligence community in exercising the authorities described in such subsection.
9323.
Report on signals intelligence priorities and requirements
(a)
Report required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on signals intelligence priorities and requirements subject to Presidential Policy Directive 28.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall cover the following:
(1)
The implementation of the annual process for advising the Director on signals intelligence priorities and requirements described in section 3 of Presidential Policy Directive 28.
(2)
The signals intelligence priorities and requirements as of the most recent annual process.
(3)
The application of such priorities and requirements to the signals intelligence collection efforts of the intelligence community.
(4)
The contents of the classified annex referenced in section 3 of Presidential Policy Directive 28.
(c)
Form
The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9324.
Assessment of demand for student loan repayment program benefit
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence community shall—
(1)
calculate the number of personnel of that element who qualify for a student loan repayment program benefit;
(2)
compare the number calculated under paragraph (1) to the number of personnel who apply for such a benefit;
(3)
provide recommendations for how to structure such a program to optimize participation and enhance the effectiveness of the benefit as a retention tool, including with respect to the amount of the benefit offered and the length of time an employee receiving a benefit is required to serve under a continuing service agreement; and
(4)
identify any shortfall in funds or authorities needed to provide such a benefit.
(b)
Inclusion in fiscal year 2022 budget submission
The Director of National Intelligence shall include in the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget for the intelligence community for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a report on the findings of the elements of the intelligence community under subsection (a).
9325.
Assessment of intelligence community demand for child care
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the heads of the elements of the intelligence community specified in subsection (b), shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report that includes—
(1)
a calculation of the total annual demand for child care by employees of such elements, at or near the workplaces of such employees, including a calculation of the demand for early morning and evening child care;
(2)
an identification of any shortfall between the demand calculated under paragraph (1) and the child care supported by such elements as of the date of the report;
(3)
an assessment of options for addressing any such shortfall, including options for providing child care at or near the workplaces of employees of such elements;
(4)
an identification of the advantages, disadvantages, security requirements, and costs associated with each such option;
(5)
a plan to meet, by the date that is 5 years after the date of the report—
(A)
the demand calculated under paragraph (1); or
(B)
an alternative standard established by the Director for child care available to employees of such elements; and
(6)
an assessment of needs of specific elements of the intelligence community, including any Government-provided child care that could be collocated with a workplace of employees of such an element and any available child care providers in the proximity of such a workplace.
(b)
Elements specified
The elements of the intelligence community specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The Central Intelligence Agency.
(2)
The National Security Agency.
(3)
The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(4)
The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
(5)
The National Reconnaissance Office.
(6)
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
9326.
Open source intelligence strategies and plans for the intelligence community
(a)
Requirement for survey and evaluation of customer feedback
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the head of each element of the intelligence community, shall—
(1)
conduct a survey of the open source intelligence requirements, goals, monetary and property investments, and capabilities for each element of the intelligence community; and
(2)
evaluate the usability and utility of the Open Source Enterprise by soliciting customer feedback and evaluating such feedback.
(b)
Requirement for overall strategy and for intelligence community, plan for improving usability of Open Source Enterprise, and risk analysis of creating open source center
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director, in coordination with the head of each element of the intelligence community and using the findings of the Director with respect to the survey conducted under subsection (a), shall—
(1)
develop a strategy for open source intelligence collection, analysis, and production that defines the overarching goals, roles, responsibilities, and processes for such collection, analysis, and production for the intelligence community;
(2)
develop a plan for improving usability and utility of the Open Source Enterprise based on the customer feedback solicited under subsection (a)(2); and
(3)
conduct a risk and benefit analysis of creating an open source center independent of any current intelligence community element.
(c)
Requirement for plan for centralized data repository
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and using the findings of the Director with respect to the survey and evaluation conducted under subsection (a), the strategy and plan developed under subsection (b), and the risk and benefit analysis conducted under such subsection, the Director shall develop a plan for a centralized data repository of open source intelligence that enables all elements of the intelligence community—
(1)
to use such repository for their specific requirements; and
(2)
to derive open source intelligence advantages.
(d)
Requirement for cost-sharing model
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and using the findings of the Director with respect to the survey and evaluation conducted under subsection (a), the strategy and plan developed under subsection (b), the risk and benefit analysis conducted under such subsection, and the plan developed under subsection (c), the Director shall develop a cost-sharing model that leverages the open source intelligence investments of each element of the intelligence community for the beneficial use of the entire intelligence community.
(e)
Congressional briefing
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the Director of the National Security Agency shall jointly brief the congressional intelligence committees on—
(1)
the strategy developed under paragraph (1) of subsection (b);
(2)
the plan developed under paragraph (2) of such subsection;
(3)
the plan developed under subsection (c); and
(4)
the cost-sharing model developed under subsection (d).
XCIV
Security clearances and trusted workforce
9401.
Exclusivity, consistency, and transparency in security clearance procedures, and right to appeal
(a)
Exclusivity of procedures
Section 801 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3161
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Exclusivity
Except as provided in subsection (b) and subject to sections 801A and 801B, the procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) and promulgated and set forth under subpart A of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations, shall be the exclusive procedures by which decisions about eligibility for access to classified information are governed.
.
(b)
Transparency
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Publication
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the President shall—
(A)
publish in the Federal Register the procedures established pursuant to subsection (a); or
(B)
submit to Congress a certification that the procedures currently in effect that govern access to classified information as described in subsection (a)—
(i)
are published in the Federal Register; and
(ii)
comply with the requirements of subsection (a).
(2)
Updates
Whenever the President makes a revision to a procedure established pursuant to subsection (a), the President shall publish such revision in the Federal Register not later than 30 days before the date on which the revision becomes effective.
.
(c)
Consistency
(1)
In general
Title VIII of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3161
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 801 the following:
801A.
Decisions relating to access to classified information
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term
Executive agency
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Classified Information
The term
classified information
includes sensitive compartmented information, restricted data, restricted handling information, and other compartmented information.
(3)
Eligibility for access to classified information
The term
eligibility for access to classified information
has the meaning given such term in the procedures established pursuant to section 801(a).
(b)
In general
Each head of an agency that makes a determination regarding eligibility for access to classified information shall ensure that in making the determination, the head of the agency or any person acting on behalf of the head of the agency—
(1)
does not violate any right or protection enshrined in the Constitution of the United States, including rights articulated in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments;
(2)
does not discriminate for or against an individual on the basis of race, ethnicity, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap;
(3)
is not carrying out—
(A)
retaliation for political activities or beliefs; or
(B)
a coercion or reprisal described in section 2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code; and
(4)
does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)
).
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in the matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3002
) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 801 the following:
Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to classified information.
.
(d)
Right to appeal
(1)
In general
Such title, as amended by subsection (c), is further amended by inserting after section 801A the following:
801B.
Right to appeal
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term
Executive agency
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Covered person
The term
covered person
means a person, other than the President and Vice President, currently or formerly employed in, detailed to, assigned to, or issued an authorized conditional offer of employment for a position that requires access to classified information by an agency, including the following:
(A)
A member of the Armed Forces.
(B)
A civilian.
(C)
An expert or consultant with a contractual or personnel obligation to an agency.
(D)
Any other category of person who acts for or on behalf of an agency as determined by the head of the agency.
(3)
Eligibility for access to classified information
The term
eligibility for access to classified information
has the meaning given such term in the procedures established pursuant to section 801(a).
(4)
Need for access
The term
need for access
has such meaning as the President may define in the procedures established pursuant to section 801(a).
(5)
Reciprocity of clearance
The term
reciprocity of clearance
, with respect to a denial by an agency, means that the agency, with respect to a covered person—
(A)
failed to accept a security clearance background investigation as required by paragraph (1) of section 3001(d) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3341(d)
);
(B)
failed to accept a transferred security clearance background investigation required by paragraph (2) of such section;
(C)
subjected the covered person to an additional investigative or adjudicative requirement in violation of paragraph (3) of such section; or
(D)
conducted an investigation in violation of paragraph (4) of such section.
(6)
Security Executive Agent
The term
Security Executive Agent
means the officer serving as the Security Executive Agent pursuant to section 803.
(b)
Agency review
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
, each head of an agency shall, consistent with the interest of national security, establish and publish in the Federal Register a process by which a covered person to whom eligibility for access to classified information was denied or revoked by the agency or for whom reciprocity of clearance was denied by the agency can appeal that denial or revocation within the agency.
(2)
Elements
The process required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
In the case of a covered person to whom eligibility for access to classified information or reciprocity of clearance is denied or revoked by an agency, the following:
(i)
The head of the agency shall provide the covered person with a written—
(I)
detailed explanation of the basis for the denial or revocation as the head of the agency determines is consistent with the interests of national security and as permitted by other applicable provisions of law; and
(II)
notice of the right of the covered person to a hearing and appeal under this subsection.
(ii)
Not later than 30 days after receiving a request from the covered person for copies of the documents that formed the basis of the agency's decision to revoke or deny, including the investigative file, the head of the agency shall provide to the covered person copies of such documents as—
(I)
the head of the agency determines is consistent with the interests of national security; and
(II)
permitted by other applicable provisions of law, including—
(aa)
section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the
Freedom of Information Act
);
(bb)
section 552a of such title (commonly known as the
Privacy Act of 1974
); and
(cc)
such other provisions of law relating to the protection of confidential sources and privacy of individuals.
(iii)
(I)
The covered person shall have the opportunity to retain counsel or other representation at the covered person’s expense.
(II)
Upon the request of the covered person, and a showing that the ability to review classified information is essential to the resolution of an appeal under this subsection, counsel or other representation retained under this clause shall be considered for access to classified information for the limited purposes of such appeal.
(iv)
(I)
The head of the agency shall provide the covered person an opportunity, at a point in the process determined by the agency head—
(aa)
to appear personally before an adjudicative or other authority, other than the investigating entity, and to present to such authority relevant documents, materials, and information, including evidence that past problems relating to the denial or revocation have been overcome or sufficiently mitigated; and
(bb)
to call and cross-examine witnesses before such authority, unless the head of the agency determines that calling and cross-examining witnesses is not consistent with the interests of national security.
(II)
The head of the agency shall make, as part of the security record of the covered person, a written summary, transcript, or recording of any appearance under item (aa) of subclause (I) or of any calling or cross-examining of witnesses under item (bb) of such subclause.
(v)
On or before the date that is 30 days after the date on which the covered person receives copies of documents under clause (ii), the covered person may request a hearing of the decision to deny or revoke by filing a written appeal with the head of the agency.
(B)
A requirement that each review of a decision under this subsection is completed on average not later than 180 days after the date on which a hearing is requested under subparagraph (A)(v).
(3)
Agency review panels
(A)
In general
Each head of an agency shall establish a panel to hear and review appeals under this subsection.
(B)
Membership
(i)
Composition
Each panel established by the head of an agency under subparagraph (A) shall be composed of at least three employees of the agency selected by the agency head, two of whom shall not be members of the security field.
(ii)
Terms
A term of service on a panel established by the head of an agency under subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 2 years.
(C)
Decisions
(i)
Written
Each decision of a panel established under subparagraph (A) shall be in writing and contain a justification of the decision.
(ii)
Consistency
Each head of an agency that establishes a panel under subparagraph (A) shall ensure that each decision of the panel is consistent with the interests of national security and applicable provisions of law.
(iii)
Overturn
The head of an agency may overturn a decision of the panel if, not later than 30 days after the date on which the panel issues the decision, the agency head personally exercises the authority granted by this clause to overturn such decision.
(iv)
Finality
Each decision of a panel established under subparagraph (A) or overturned pursuant to clause (iii) of this subparagraph shall be final.
(D)
Access to classified information
The head of an agency that establishes a panel under subparagraph (A) shall afford access to classified information to the members of the panel as the agency head determines—
(i)
necessary for the panel to hear and review an appeal under this subsection; and
(ii)
consistent with the interests of national security.
(4)
Representation by counsel
(A)
In general
Each head of an agency shall ensure that, under this subsection, a covered person appealing a decision of the head's agency under this subsection has an opportunity to retain counsel or other representation at the covered person’s expense.
(B)
Access to classified information
(i)
In general
Upon the request of a covered person appealing a decision of an agency under this subsection and a showing that the ability to review classified information is essential to the resolution of the appeal under this subsection, the head of the agency shall sponsor an application by the counsel or other representation retained under this paragraph for access to classified information for the limited purposes of such appeal.
(ii)
Extent of access
Counsel or another representative who is cleared for access under this subparagraph may be afforded access to relevant classified materials to the extent consistent with the interests of national security.
(5)
Publication of decisions
(A)
In general
Each head of an agency shall publish each final decision on an appeal under this subsection.
(B)
Requirements
In order to ensure transparency, oversight by Congress, and meaningful information for those who need to understand how the clearance process works, each publication under subparagraph (A) shall be—
(i)
made in a manner that is consistent with section 552 of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996 (
Public Law 104–231
);
(ii)
published to explain the facts of the case, redacting personally identifiable information and sensitive program information; and
(iii)
made available on a website that is searchable by members of the public.
(c)
Period of time for the right to appeal
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), any covered person who has been the subject of a decision made by the head of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for access to classified information shall retain all rights to appeal under this section until the conclusion of the appeals process under this section.
(2)
Waiver of rights
(A)
Persons
Any covered person may voluntarily waive the covered person's right to appeal under this section and such waiver shall be conclusive.
(B)
Agencies
The head of an agency may not require a covered person to waive the covered person's right to appeal under this section for any reason.
(d)
Waiver of availability of procedures for national security interest
(1)
In general
If the head of an agency determines that a procedure established under subsection (b) cannot be made available to a covered person in an exceptional case without damaging a national security interest of the United States by revealing classified information, such procedure shall not be made available to such covered person.
(2)
Finality
A determination under paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive and may not be reviewed by any other official or by any court.
(3)
Reporting
(A)
Case-by-case
(i)
In general
In each case in which the head of an agency determines under paragraph (1) that a procedure established under subsection (b) cannot be made available to a covered person, the agency head shall, not later than 30 days after the date on which the agency head makes such determination, submit to the Security Executive Agent and to the congressional intelligence committees a report stating the reasons for the determination.
(ii)
Form
A report submitted under clause (i) may be submitted in classified form as necessary.
(B)
Annual reports
(i)
In general
Not less frequently than once each fiscal year, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the determinations made under paragraph (1) during the previous fiscal year.
(ii)
Contents
Each report submitted under clause (i) shall include, for the period covered by the report, the following:
(I)
The number of cases and reasons for determinations made under paragraph (1), disaggregated by agency.
(II)
Such other matters as the Security Executive Agent considers appropriate.
(e)
Denials and revocations under other provisions of law
(1)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or affect the responsibility and power of the head of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for access to classified information or to deny reciprocity of clearance in the interest of national security.
(2)
Denials and revocation
The power and responsibility to deny or revoke eligibility for access to classified information or to deny reciprocity of clearance pursuant to any other provision of law or Executive order may be exercised only when the head of an agency determines that an applicable process established under this section cannot be invoked in a manner that is consistent with national security.
(3)
Finality
A determination under paragraph (2) shall be final and conclusive and may not be reviewed by any other official or by any court.
(4)
Reporting
(A)
Case-by-case
(i)
In general
In each case in which the head of an agency determines under paragraph (2) that a determination relating to a denial or revocation of eligibility for access to classified information or denial of reciprocity of clearance could not be made pursuant to a process established under this section, the agency head shall, not later than 30 days after the date on which the agency head makes such a determination under paragraph (2), submit to the Security Executive Agent and to the congressional intelligence committees a report stating the reasons for the determination.
(ii)
Form
A report submitted under clause (i) may be submitted in classified form as necessary.
(B)
Annual reports
(i)
In general
Not less frequently than once each fiscal year, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the determinations made under paragraph (2) during the previous fiscal year.
(ii)
Contents
Each report submitted under clause (i) shall include, for the period covered by the report, the following:
(I)
The number of cases and reasons for determinations made under paragraph (2), disaggregated by agency.
(II)
Such other matters as the Security Executive Agent considers appropriate.
(f)
Relationship to suitability
No person may use a determination of suitability under part 731 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulation, for the purpose of denying a covered person the review proceedings of this section where there has been a denial or revocation of eligibility for access to classified information or a denial of reciprocity of clearance.
(g)
Preservation of roles and responsibilities under Executive Order 10865 and of the Defense Office of
Hearings and Appeals
Nothing in this section shall be construed to diminish or otherwise affect the procedures in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act for denial and revocation procedures provided to individuals by Executive Order 10865 (
50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to safeguarding classified information within industry), or successor order, including those administered through the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Defense under Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, or successor directive.
(h)
Rule of construction relating to certain other provisions of law
This section and the processes and procedures established under this section shall not be construed to apply to paragraphs (6) and (7) of section 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3341(j)
).
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents in the matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3002
), as amended by subsection (c), is further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 801A the following:
Sec. 801B. Right to appeal.
.
9402.
Establishing process parity for security clearance revocations
Subparagraph (C) of section 3001(j)(4) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (
50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(4)
) is amended to read as follows:
(C)
Burdens of proof
(i)
In general
Subject to clause (iii), in determining whether the adverse security clearance or access determination violated paragraph (1), the agency shall find that paragraph (1) was violated if the individual has demonstrated that a disclosure described in paragraph (1) was a contributing factor in the adverse security clearance or access determination taken against the individual.
(ii)
Circumstantial evidence
An individual under clause (i) may demonstrate that the disclosure was a contributing factor in the adverse security clearance or access determination taken against the individual through circumstantial evidence, such as evidence that—
(I)
the official making the determination knew of the disclosure; and
(II)
the determination occurred within a period such that a reasonable person could conclude that the disclosure was a contributing factor in the determination.
(iii)
Defense
In determining whether the adverse security clearance or access determination violated paragraph (1), the agency shall not find that paragraph (1) was violated if, after a finding that a disclosure was a contributing factor, the agency demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that it would have made the same security clearance or access determination in the absence of such disclosure.
.
9403.
Federal policy on sharing of derogatory information pertaining to contractor employees in the trusted workforce
(a)
Policy required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent, in coordination with the principal members of the Performance Accountability Council and the Attorney General, shall issue a policy for the Federal Government on sharing of derogatory information pertaining to contractor employees engaged by the Federal Government.
(b)
Consent requirement
(1)
In general
The policy issued under subsection (a) shall require, as a condition of accepting a security clearance with the Federal Government, that a contractor employee provide prior written consent for the Federal Government to share covered derogatory information with the chief security officer of the contractor employer that employs the contractor employee.
(2)
Covered derogatory information
For purposes of this section, covered derogatory information—
(A)
is information that—
(i)
contravenes National Security Adjudicative Guidelines as specified in Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (10 C.F.R. 710 app. A), or any successor Federal policy;
(ii)
a Federal Government agency certifies is accurate and reliable;
(iii)
is relevant to a contractor's ability to protect against insider threats as required by section 1–202 of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), or successor manual; and
(iv)
may have a bearing on the contractor employee's suitability for a position of public trust or to receive credentials to access certain facilities of the Federal Government; and
(B)
shall include any negative information considered in the adjudicative process, including information provided by the contractor employee on forms submitted for the processing of the contractor employee's security clearance.
(c)
Elements
The policy issued under subsection (a) shall—
(1)
require Federal agencies, except under exceptional circumstances specified by the Security Executive Agent, to share with the contractor employer of a contractor employee engaged with the Federal Government the existence of potentially derogatory information and which National Security Adjudicative Guideline it falls under, with the exception that the Security Executive Agent may waive such requirement in circumstances the Security Executive Agent considers extraordinary;
(2)
require that covered derogatory information shared with a contractor employer as described in subsection (b)(1) be used by the contractor employer exclusively for risk mitigation purposes under section 1–202 of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or successor manual;
(3)
require Federal agencies to share any mitigation measures in place to address the derogatory information;
(4)
establish standards for timeliness for sharing the derogatory information;
(5)
specify the methods by which covered derogatory information will be shared with the contractor employer of the contractor employee;
(6)
allow the contractor employee, within a specified timeframe, the right—
(A)
to contest the accuracy and reliability of covered derogatory information;
(B)
to address or remedy any concerns raised by the covered derogatory information; and
(C)
to provide documentation pertinent to subparagraph (A) or (B) for an agency to place in relevant security clearance databases;
(7)
establish a procedure by which the contractor employer of the contractor employee may consult with the Federal Government prior to taking any remedial action under section 1–202 of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or successor manual, to address the derogatory information the Federal agency has provided;
(8)
stipulate that the chief security officer of the contractor employer is prohibited from sharing or discussing covered derogatory information with other parties, including nonsecurity professionals at the contractor employer; and
(9)
require companies in the National Industrial Security Program to comply with the policy.
(d)
Consideration of lessons learned from information-sharing program for positions of trust and security clearances
In developing the policy issued under subsection (a), the Director shall consider, to the extent available, lessons learned from actions taken to carry out section 6611(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
XCV
Reports and other matters
9501.
Report on attempts by foreign adversaries to build telecommunications and cybersecurity equipment and services for, or to provide such equipment and services to, certain allies of the United States
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Five Eyes country
The term
Five Eyes country
means any of the following:
(A)
Australia.
(B)
Canada.
(C)
New Zealand.
(D)
The United Kingdom.
(E)
The United States.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on attempts by foreign adversaries to build telecommunications and cybersecurity equipment and services for, or to provide such equipment and services to, Five Eyes countries.
(c)
Elements
The report submitted under subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of United States intelligence sharing and intelligence and military force posture in any Five Eyes country that currently uses or intends to use telecommunications or cybersecurity equipment or services provided by a foreign adversary of the United States, including China and Russia.
(2)
A description and assessment of mitigation of any potential compromises or risks for any circumstance described in paragraph (1).
(d)
Form
The report required by subsection (b) shall include an unclassified executive summary, and may include a classified annex.
9502.
Report on threats posed by use by foreign governments and entities of commercially available cyber intrusion and surveillance technology
(a)
Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the threats posed by the use by foreign governments and entities of commercially available cyber intrusion and other surveillance technology.
(b)
Contents
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Matters relating to threats described in subsection (a) as they pertain to the following:
(A)
The threat posed to United States persons and persons inside the United States.
(B)
The threat posed to United States personnel overseas.
(C)
The threat posed to employees of the Federal Government, including through both official and personal accounts and devices.
(2)
A description of which foreign governments and entities pose the greatest threats from the use of technology described in subsection (a) and the nature of those threats.
(3)
An assessment of the source of the commercially available cyber intrusion and other surveillance technology that poses the threats described in subsection (a), including whether such technology is made by United States companies or companies in the United States or by foreign companies.
(4)
An assessment of actions taken, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, by the Federal Government and foreign governments to limit the export of technology described in subsection (a) from the United States or foreign countries to foreign governments and entities in ways that pose the threats described in such subsection.
(5)
Matters relating to how the Federal Government, Congress, and foreign governments can most effectively mitigate the threats described in subsection (a), including matters relating to the following:
(A)
Working with the technology and telecommunications industry to identify and improve the security of consumer software and hardware used by United States persons and persons inside the United States that is targeted by commercial cyber intrusion and surveillance software.
(B)
Export controls.
(C)
Diplomatic pressure.
(D)
Trade agreements.
(c)
Form
The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9503.
Reports on recommendations of the Cyberspace Solarium Commission
(a)
Appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Reports required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each head of an agency described in subsection (c) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the recommendations included in the report issued by the Cyberspace Solarium Commission under section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (
Public Law 115–232
).
(c)
Agencies described
The agencies described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
The Department of Homeland Security.
(3)
The Department of Energy.
(4)
The Department of Commerce.
(5)
The Department of Defense.
(d)
Contents
Each report submitted under subsection (b) by the head of an agency described in subsection (c) shall include the following:
(1)
An evaluation of the recommendations in the report described in subsection (b) that the agency identifies as pertaining directly to the agency.
(2)
A description of the actions taken, or the actions that the head of the agency may consider taking, to implement any of the recommendations (including a comprehensive estimate of requirements for appropriations to take such actions).
9504.
Assessment of critical technology trends relating to artificial intelligence, microchips, and semiconductors and related supply chains
(a)
Assessment required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall complete a detailed assessment of critical technology trends relating to artificial intelligence, microchips, and semiconductors and related supply chains.
(b)
Elements
The assessment required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Export controls
(A)
In general
An assessment of efforts by partner countries to enact and implement export controls and other technology transfer measures with respect to artificial intelligence, microchips, advanced manufacturing equipment, and other artificial intelligence enabled technologies critical to United States supply chains.
(B)
Identification of opportunities for cooperation
The assessment under subparagraph (A) shall identify opportunities for further cooperation with international partners on a multilateral and bilateral basis to strengthen export control regimes and address technology transfer threats.
(2)
Semiconductor supply chains
(A)
In general
An assessment of global semiconductor supply chains, including areas to reduce United States vulnerabilities and maximize points of leverage.
(B)
Analysis of potential effects
The assessment under subparagraph (A) shall include an analysis of the potential effects of significant geopolitical shifts, including those related to Taiwan.
(C)
Identification of opportunities for diversification
The assessment under subparagraph (A) shall also identify opportunities for diversification of United States supply chains, including an assessment of cost, challenges, and opportunities to diversify manufacturing capabilities on a multinational basis.
(3)
Computing power
An assessment of trends relating to computing power and the effect of such trends on global artificial intelligence development and implementation, in consultation with the Director of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity, the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including forward-looking assessments of how computing resources may affect United States national security, innovation, and implementation relating to artificial intelligence.
(c)
Report
(1)
Definition of appropriate committees of Congress
In this subsection, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(B)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of the Director with respect to the assessment completed under subsection (a).
(3)
Form
The report submitted under paragraph (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9505.
Combating Chinese influence operations in the United States and strengthening civil liberties protections
(a)
Updates to annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the United States by the Chinese Communist Party
Section 1107(b) of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3237(b)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
(8)
An identification of influence activities and operations employed by the Chinese Communist Party against the United States science and technology sectors, specifically employees of the United States Government, researchers, scientists, and students in the science and technology sector in the United States.
.
(b)
Plan for Federal Bureau of Investigation to increase public awareness and detection of influence activities by the Government of the People's Republic of China
(1)
Plan required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a plan—
(A)
to increase public awareness of influence activities by the Government of the People's Republic of China; and
(B)
to publicize mechanisms that members of the public can use—
(i)
to detect such activities; and
(ii)
to report such activities to the Bureau.
(2)
Consultation
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with the following:
(A)
The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(B)
Such other stakeholders outside the intelligence community, including professional associations, institutions of higher education, businesses, and civil rights and multicultural organizations, as the Director determines relevant.
(c)
Recommendations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to strengthen relationships and build trust with communities of interest
(1)
In general
The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in consultation with the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division and the Chief Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer of the Department of Justice, shall develop recommendations to strengthen relationships with communities targeted by influence activities of the Government of the People's Republic of China and build trust with such communities through local and regional grassroots outreach.
(2)
Submittal to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).
(d)
Technical corrections
The National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.) is amended—
(1)
in section 1107 (
50 U.S.C. 3237
)—
(A)
in the section heading, by striking
Communist Party of China
and inserting
Chinese Communist Party
; and
(B)
by striking
Communist Party of China
both places it appears and inserting
Chinese Communist Party
; and
(2)
in the table of contents before section 2 (
50 U.S.C. 3002
), by striking the item relating to section 1107 and inserting the following new item:
Sec. 1107. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the United States by the Chinese Communist Party.
.
9506.
Annual report on corrupt activities of senior officials of the Chinese Communist Party
(a)
Definition of appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Annual report required
(1)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2025, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the corruption and corrupt activities of senior officials of the Chinese Communist Party.
(2)
Elements
(A)
In general
Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(i)
A description of the wealth of, and corruption and corrupt activities among, senior officials of the Chinese Communist Party.
(ii)
A description of any recent actions of the officials described in clause (i) that could be considered a violation, or potential violation, of United States law.
(iii)
A description and assessment of targeted financial measures, including potential targets for designation of the officials described in clause (i) for the corruption and corrupt activities described in that clause and for the actions described in clause (ii).
(B)
Scope of reports
The first report under paragraph (1) shall include comprehensive information on the matters described in subparagraph (A). Any succeeding report under paragraph (1) may consist of an update or supplement to the preceding report under that subsection.
(3)
Coordination
In preparing each report, update, or supplement under this subsection, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate as follows:
(A)
In preparing the description required by clause (i) of paragraph (2)(A), the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(B)
In preparing the descriptions required by clauses (ii) and (iii) of such paragraph, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury.
(4)
Form
Each report under paragraph (1) shall include an unclassified executive summary, and may include a classified annex.
(c)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should undertake every effort and pursue every opportunity to expose the corruption and illicit practices of senior officials of the Chinese Communist Party, including President Xi Jinping.
9507.
Report on corrupt activities of Russian and other Eastern European oligarchs
(a)
Definition of appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 100 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and the Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs a report on the corruption and corrupt activities of Russian and other Eastern European oligarchs.
(c)
Elements
(1)
In general
Each report under subsection (b) shall include the following:
(A)
A description of corruption and corrupt activities among Russian and other Eastern European oligarchs who support the Government of the Russian Federation, including estimates of the total assets of such oligarchs.
(B)
An assessment of the impact of the corruption and corrupt activities described pursuant to subparagraph (A) on the economy and citizens of Russia.
(C)
A description of any connections to, or support of, organized crime, drug smuggling, or human trafficking by an oligarch covered by subparagraph (A).
(D)
A description of any information that reveals corruption and corrupt activities in Russia among oligarchs covered by subparagraph (A).
(E)
A description and assessment of potential sanctions actions that could be imposed upon oligarchs covered by subparagraph (A) who support the leadership of the Government of Russia, including President Vladimir Putin.
(2)
Scope of reports
The first report under subsection (a) shall include comprehensive information on the matters described in paragraph (1). Any succeeding report under subsection (a) may consist of an update or supplement to the preceding report under that subsection.
(d)
Coordination
In preparing each report, update, or supplement under this section, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate as follows:
(1)
In preparing the assessment and descriptions required by subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1), the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(2)
In preparing the description and assessment required by subparagraph (E) of such subsection, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury.
(e)
Form
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), each report under subsection (b) shall include an unclassified executive summary, and may include a classified annex.
(2)
Unclassified form of certain information
The information described in subsection (c)(1)(D) in each report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form.
9508.
Report on biosecurity risk and disinformation by the Chinese Communist Party and the Government of the People's Republic of China
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Critical infrastructure
The term
critical infrastructure
has the meaning given such term in section 1016(e) of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001 (
42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)
).
(b)
Report required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report identifying whether and how officials of the Chinese Communist Party and the Government of the People's Republic of China may have sought—
(1)
to suppress information about—
(A)
the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in Wuhan;
(B)
the spread of the virus through China; and
(C)
the transmission of the virus to other countries;
(2)
to spread disinformation relating to the pandemic; or
(3)
to exploit the pandemic to advance their national security interests.
(c)
Assessments
The report required by subsection (b) shall include assessments of reported actions and the effect of those actions on efforts to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, including each of the following:
(1)
The origins of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the time and location of initial infections, and the mode and speed of early viral spread.
(2)
Actions taken by the Government of China to suppress, conceal, or misinform the people of China and those of other countries about the novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan.
(3)
The effect of disinformation or the failure of the Government of China to fully disclose details of the outbreak on response efforts of local governments in China and other countries.
(4)
Diplomatic, political, economic, intelligence, or other pressure on other countries and international organizations to conceal information about the spread of the novel coronavirus and the response of the Government of China to the contagion, as well as to influence or coerce early responses to the pandemic by other countries.
(5)
Efforts by officials of the Government of China to deny access to health experts and international health organizations to afflicted individuals in Wuhan, pertinent areas of the city, or laboratories of interest in China, including the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
(6)
Efforts by the Government of China, or those acting at its direction or with its assistance, to conduct cyber operations against international, national, or private health organizations conducting research relating to the novel coronavirus or operating in response to the pandemic.
(7)
Efforts to control, restrict, or manipulate relevant segments of global supply chains, particularly in the sale, trade, or provision of relevant medicines, medical supplies, or medical equipment as a result of the pandemic.
(8)
Efforts to advance the economic, intelligence, national security, and political objectives of the Government of China by exploiting vulnerabilities of foreign governments, economies, and companies under financial duress as a result of the pandemic or to accelerate economic espionage and intellectual property theft.
(9)
Efforts to exploit the disruption of the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries as well as other industries tied to critical infrastructure and bilateral trade between China and the United States and between China and allies and partners of the United States in order to advance the economic and political objectives of the Government of China following the pandemic.
(d)
Form
The report required under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9509.
Report on effect of lifting of United Nations arms embargo on Islamic Republic of Iran
(a)
Definition of appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, in consultation with such heads of other elements of the intelligence community as the Director considers appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on—
(1)
the plans of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to acquire military arms if the ban on arms transfers to or from such government under United Nations Security Council resolutions are lifted; and
(2)
the effect such arms acquisitions may have on regional security and stability.
(c)
Contents
The report submitted under subsection (b) shall include assessments relating to plans of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to acquire additional weapons, the intention of other countries to provide such weapons, and the effect such acquisition and provision would have on regional stability, including with respect to each of the following:
(1)
The type and quantity of weapon systems under consideration for acquisition.
(2)
The countries of origin of such systems.
(3)
Likely reactions of other countries in the region to such acquisition, including the potential for proliferation by other countries in response.
(4)
The threat that such acquisition could present to international commerce and energy supplies in the region, and the potential implications for the national security of the United States.
(5)
The threat that such acquisition could present to the Armed Forces of the United States, of countries allied with the United States, and of countries partnered with the United States stationed in or deployed in the region.
(6)
The potential that such acquisition could be used to deliver chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons.
(7)
The potential for the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to proliferate weapons acquired in the absence of an arms embargo to regional groups, including Shi'a militia groups backed by such government.
(d)
Form
The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9510.
Report on Iranian activities relating to nuclear nonproliferation
(a)
Definition of appropriate committees of Congress
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b)
Report required
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report assessing—
(1)
any relevant activities potentially relating to nuclear weapons research and development by the Islamic Republic of Iran; and
(2)
any relevant efforts to afford or deny international access in accordance with international nonproliferation agreements.
(c)
Assessments
The report required by subsection (b) shall include assessments, for the period beginning on January 1, 2018, and ending on the date of the submittal of the report, of the following:
(1)
Activities to research, develop, or enrich uranium or reprocess plutonium with the intent or capability of creating weapons-grade nuclear material.
(2)
Research, development, testing, or design activities that could contribute to or inform construction of a device intended to initiate or capable of initiating a nuclear explosion.
(3)
Efforts to receive, transmit, store, destroy, relocate, archive, or otherwise preserve research, processes, products, or enabling materials relevant or relating to any efforts assessed under paragraph (1) or (2).
(4)
Efforts to afford or deny international access, in accordance with international nonproliferation agreements, to locations, individuals, and materials relating to activities described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
(d)
Form
The report required under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
9511.
Sense of Congress on Third Option Foundation
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1)
the work of the Third Option Foundation to heal, help, and honor members of the special operations community of the Central Intelligence Agency and their families is invaluable; and
(2)
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency should work closely with the Third Option Foundation in implementing section 19A of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (
50 U.S.C. 3519b
), as added by section 6412 of the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 (
Public Law 116–92
).
