1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Privacy in Our Homes Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Commission
The term
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(2)
Covered device
The term
covered device
—
(A)
means an internet-connected device a component of which is a camera or microphone; and
(B)
does not include any device that is specifically marketed as a camera or microphone.
(3)
Covered manufacturer
The term
covered manufacturer
means a manufacturer of a covered device.
3.
Regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall promulgate regulations under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, under which each covered manufacturer shall be required to include on the packaging of each covered device manufactured by the covered manufacturer a notice that a camera or microphone is a component of the covered device.
4.
Enforcement
(a)
In general
This Act and the regulations promulgated under this Act shall be enforced by the Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.).
(b)
Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of this Act or a regulation promulgated under this Act shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)
).
(c)
Actions by the Commission
(1)
In general
The Commission shall prevent any person from violating this Act or a regulation promulgated under this Act in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act.
(2)
Penalties and privileges
Any person who violates this Act or a regulation promulgated under this Act shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act (
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.).
