1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Information Technology Modernization Centers of Excellence Program Act
.
2.
GSA modernization centers of excellence program
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Cloud computing
The term
cloud computing
has the meaning given the term in section 1076 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (
40 U.S.C. 11301
note).
(2)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given the term
Executive agency
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Program
The term
Program
means the Information Technology Modernization Centers of Excellence Program established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
The Administrator of General Services shall establish a program to be known as the Information Technology Modernization Centers of Excellence Program to facilitate the adoption of modern technology by executive agencies.
(c)
Responsibilities
The Program shall have the following responsibilities:
(1)
To modernize information technology used by an executive agency and how a customer interacts with an executive agency.
(2)
To improve cooperation between commercial and executive agency information technology sectors.
(3)
To the extent practicable, encourage the adoption of commercial items in accordance with section 3307 of title 41, United States Code.
(4)
On a reimbursable basis, assist executive agencies with planning and adoption of technology in focus areas designated by the Administrator, which may include the following:
(A)
A commercial cloud computing system that includes—
(i)
end-to-end migration planning and an assessment of progress towards modernization; and
(ii)
a security and governance framework based on industry and government best practices.
(B)
Tools to help an individual receive support from and communicate with an executive agency.
(C)
Contact centers and other related customer supports.
(D)
Efficient use of data management, analysis, and reporting.
(E)
The optimization of infrastructure, including for data centers, and the reduction of operating costs.
(F)
Artificial intelligence.
(5)
To share best practices and expertise with executive agencies.
(6)
Other responsibilities the Administrator may identify.
(d)
Program reporting
For each reimbursable agreement entered into in accordance with subsection (c)(4), the Administrator shall make the following information available on a public website within 30 days of the signing of the agreement and updated upon completion:
(1)
A description of such reimbursable agreement or statement of work, and associated project schedules and deliverables.
(2)
The total amount of the reimbursable agreement.
(3)
The actual or anticipated costs of any product or service associated with a deliverable under the agreement.
(4)
Any additional information the Administrator determines necessary.
(e)
Sunset
This Act shall be repealed on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
