1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing America's Borders Act of 2019
.
2.
Additional border patrol personnel
(a)
Agents
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall hire, train, and assign not fewer than 600 new Border Patrol agents, compared to the current attrition level, during every fiscal year until the total number of Border Patrol agents equals and sustains the requirements identified in Executive Order 13767 (82 Fed. Reg. 8793).
(b)
Support staff
The Commissioner is authorized to hire, train, and assign support staff to perform non-law enforcement administrative functions to support the new Border Patrol agents hired pursuant to subsection (a).
(c)
Reports to Congress
Not later that 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Commissioner shall submit a report to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives
that describes the status of the Border Patrol workforce, including—
(1)
the total number of Border Patrol agents;
(2)
the total number of Border Patrol support staff;
(3)
the number of Border Patrol agents and support staff hired during the reporting period;
(4)
the number of Border Patrol agents and support staff lost to attrition, broken down by port of entry; and
(5)
any hiring authorities, incentive pay, or other special pay incentives utilized during the reporting period.
3.
Comprehensive staffing analysis
The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall—
(1)
not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, amend the comprehensive staffing analysis required under section 2(e) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–277
) based on any changes to workload demands since the date of the enactment of such Act; and
(2)
not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, submit a report to the Comptroller General of the United States that includes the results of a comprehensive staffing analysis, as required under section 2(e) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–277
).
4.
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated, for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2026, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
