1.
Hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces performing duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(a)
In general
The Secretary of the military department concerned shall pay hazardous duty pay under this section to a member of a regular or reserve component of the Armed Forces who—
(1)
performs duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19); and
(2)
is entitled to basic pay under section 204 of title 37, United States Code, or compensation under section 206 of such title, for the performance of such duty.
(b)
Regulations
Hazardous duty pay shall be payable under this section in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. Such regulations shall specify the duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 qualifying a member for payment of such pay under this section.
(c)
Amount
The amount of hazardous duty pay paid a member under this section shall be such amount per month, not less than $150 per month, as the Secretary of Defense shall specify in the regulations under subsection (b).
(d)
Monthly payment; no proration
(1)
Monthly payment
Hazardous duty pay under this section shall be paid on a monthly basis.
(2)
No proration
Hazardous duty pay is payable to a member under this section for a month if the member performs any duty in that month qualifying the person for payment of such pay.
(e)
Months for which payable
(1)
In general
Hazardous duty pay is payable under this section for qualifying duty performed in months occurring during the period—
(A)
beginning on January 1, 2020; and
(B)
ending on December 31, 2020.
(2)
Retroactive payment
Hazardous duty pay under this section is payable on a retroactive basis.
(f)
Construction with other pay
Hazardous duty pay payable to a member under this section is in addition to the following:
(1)
Any other pay and allowances to which the member is entitled by law.
(2)
Any other hazardous duty pay to which the member is entitled under section 351 of title 37, United States Code (or any other provision of law), for duty that also constitutes qualifying duty for payment of such pay under this section.
(g)
Exclusion from gross income
For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, gross income shall not include any amount of hazardous duty pay received under this section.
(h)
Sense of Senate
It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of Defense should also authorize hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces not under orders specific to the response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 who provide—
(1)
healthcare in a military medical treatment facility for individuals infected with the Coronavirus Disease 2019; or
(2)
technical or administrative support for the provision of healthcare as described in paragraph (1).
