1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing America’s Medical Supply Chain and Advancing the Production of Life Saving Medicines Act
.
2.
Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator
(a)
In general
Section 141 of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2171
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(2)—
(A)
by striking
and one Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator
and inserting
one Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, and one Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator
;
(B)
by striking
or the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator
and inserting
the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, or the Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator
; and
(C)
by striking
and the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator
and inserting
the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, and the Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator
; and
(2)
in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
The principal function of the Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator shall be to conduct trade negotiations and to enforce trade agreements relating to United States pharmaceutical products and services and medical supply chains. The Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator shall be a vigorous advocate on behalf of United States pharmaceutical and medical supply chain interests. The Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator shall perform such other functions as the United States Trade Representative may direct.
.
(b)
Compensation
Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code is amended by striking
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade Representative.
and inserting the following:
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade Representative.
Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade Representative.
.
(c)
Report required
Not later than one year after the appointment of the first Chief Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Chain Negotiator pursuant to paragraph (2) of section 141(b) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by subsection (a), and annually thereafter, the United States Trade Representative shall submit to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives a report describing in detail—
(1)
enforcement actions taken by the Trade Representative during the one-year period preceding the submission of the report to ensure the protection of United States pharmaceutical products and services and medical supply chains; and
(2)
other actions taken by the Trade Representative to advance United States pharmaceutical products and services and medical supply chain interests.
