1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Encouraging Innovative Benefit Design to Lower Costs for Seniors Act
.
2.
Allowing the offering of additional prescription drug plans under Medicare part D
(a)
Rescinding and issuance of new guidance
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall—
(1)
rescind sections of any sub-regulatory guidance that limit the number of prescription drug plans in each PDP region that may be offered by a PDP sponsor under part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–101
et seq.); and
(2)
issue new guidance specifying that a PDP sponsor may offer up to 4 (or a greater number if determined appropriate by the Secretary) prescription drug plans in each PDP region, except in case where the PDP sponsor may offer up to 2 additional plans in a PDP region pursuant to section 1860D–11(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–111(d)(4)
), as added by subsection (b).
(b)
Offering of additional plans
Section 1860D–11(d) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–111(d)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(4)
Offering of additional plans
(A)
In general
For plan year 2022 and each subsequent plan year, a PDP sponsor may offer up to 2 additional prescription drug plans in a PDP region (in addition to any limit established by the Secretary under this part) provided that the PDP sponsor complies with subparagraph (B) with respect to at least one such prescription drug plan.
(B)
Requirements
In order to be eligible to offer up to 2 additional plans in a PDP region pursuant to subparagraph (A), a PDP sponsor must ensure that, with respect to at least one such prescription drug plan, the sponsor or any entity that provides pharmacy benefits management services under a contract with any such sponsor or plan does not receive direct or indirect remuneration, as defined in section 423.308 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), unless at least 10 percent of the aggregate reductions in price or other remuneration received by the PDP sponsor or entity from drug manufacturers with respect to the plan and plan year—
(i)
are reflected at the point-of-sale to the enrollee; or
(ii)
are used to reduce total beneficiary cost-sharing estimated by the PDP sponsor for prescription drug coverage under the plan in the annual bid submitted by the PDP sponsor under section 1860D–11(b).
(C)
Definition of reductions in price
For purposes of subparagraph (B), the term
reductions in price
refers only to collectible amounts, as determined by the Secretary, which excludes amounts which after adjudication and reconciliation with pharmacies and manufacturers are duplicate in nature, contrary to other contractual clauses, or otherwise ineligible (such as due to beneficiary disenrollment or coordination of benefits).
.
(c)
Rule of construction
Nothing in the provisions of, or amendments made by, this section shall be construed as limiting the ability of the Secretary to increase any limit otherwise applicable on the number of prescription drug plans that a PDP sponsor may offer, at the discretion of the PDP sponsor, in a PDP region under part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–101
et seq.).
