Executive Order  —Review of Increases in Rates of Basic Pay for Certain Employees of   and Other Agencies
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 7455(d)(2)-(3) of title  , United States Code, in order to establish procedures for review of proposed increases in the rates of basic pay of certain employees of   and of other agencies, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Director of   is designated to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 7455(d)(2)-(3) of title  , United States Code, to review and approve or disapprove the increases in rates of basic pay proposed by the Secretary of   and to provide the appropriate committees of the   with a written statement of the reasons for any such disapproval.

 . 2. In exercising this authority, the Director of   shall assure that any increases in basic pay proposed by the Secretary of   are in the best interest of  , do not exceed the amounts authorized by section 7455, and are made only to:

(1) Provide pay in an amount competitive with, but not exceeding, the amount of the same type of pay paid to the same category of health-care personnel at   health-care facilities in the same labor market;

(2) Achieve adequate staffing at particular facilities; or

(3) Recruit personnel with specialized skills, especially those with skills which are especially difficult or demanding.

 . 3. The Secretary of   shall provide to the Director of   such information as the Director may request in order to carry out the responsibilities delegated by this order.

 . 4. The Director of   shall provide the Secretary of   with a copy of any written statement provided to the appropriate committees of the   that sets forth the reasons for disapproval of any proposed increase in rates of basic pay under this order.

 . 5. In the case of any other law authorizing another agency to use the authority provided by section 7455 of title  , United States Code, the Director of   shall exercise the same authority in the same manner as provided for with respect to section   under sections 1 through 4 of this order, and the head of such other agency shall provide information requested by the Director as provided for in section 3 of this order.

 . 6. Executive  . 12438 of August 23,  , is revoked.

 . 7. This order shall be effective upon publication in  .

 

 ,

 .
