Executive Order  —Historically Black Colleges and Universities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , in order to advance the development of human potential, to strengthen the capacity of historically Black colleges and universities to provide quality education, and to increase opportunities to participate in and benefit from Federal programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. There shall be established in  , an  , the President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The members of the   shall be appointed by the President. The Secretary of  , with the advice of  , shall supervise the annual development of a   program designed to achieve an increase in the participation by historically Black colleges and universities in federally sponsored programs.   will also provide advice on how to increase the private sector role in strengthening historically Black colleges and universities. Particular emphasis shall be given to facilitating technical, planning, and development advice to historically Black colleges and universities, with the goal of ensuring the long-term viability of these institutions.

 . 2.   shall include appropriate representatives of historically Black colleges and universities, of other institutions of higher education, of business and finance, of private foundations, and of secondary education.

 . 3.   Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities, housed in  , shall provide the staff, resources, and assistance for   and Universities; shall assist the Secretary of   in the role of liaison between the   branch and historically Black colleges and universities; and shall serve the Secretary of   in carrying out his responsibilities under this order.

 . 4.   department and those   agencies designated by the Secretary of   shall establish an   plan to increase the ability of historically Black colleges and universities to participate in federally sponsored programs. These plans shall describe measurable objectives for proposed agency actions to fulfill this order and shall be submitted at such time and in such form as the Secretary of   shall designate. In consultation with participating Executive agencies, the Secretary of   shall review these plans and develop an integrated   Federal Plan for Assistance to Historically Black Colleges and Universities for consideration by the President.

 . 5. The Secretary of   shall ensure that each president of a historically Black college or university is given the opportunity to comment on the proposed   Federal Plan prior to its consideration by the President.

 . 6. Each participating agency shall submit to the Secretary of   a   progress report and at   an Annual Performance Report that shall specify agency performance against its measurable objectives.

 . 7.  , the Secretary of   shall oversee a special review by every designated Executive department and agency of its programs to determine the extent to which historically Black colleges and universities are given an equal opportunity to participate in federally sponsored programs. This review will examine unintended regulatory barriers, determine the adequacy of announcements of program opportunities of interest to these institutions, and identify ways of eliminating inequalities and disadvantages.

 . 8.  , working through  , shall provide advice on how historically Black colleges and universities can achieve greater financial security through the use of improved business, accounting, management, and development techniques. To the maximum extent possible,   shall enlist the resources and experience of the private sector in providing the assistance. To this end, historically Black colleges and universities shall be given high priority within  .

 . 9.  , along with other Federal offices, shallw ork to encourage the private sector to assist historically Black colleges and universities through increased use of such devices and activities as: (1) private sector matching funds to support increased endowments, (2) private sector task forces for institutions in need of assistance, and (3) private sector expertise to facilitate the development of more effective ways to manage finances, improve information management, strengthen faculties, and improve course offerings. These steps will be taken with the goals of enhancing the career prospects of their graduates and increasing the number of those with careers in science and technology.

 . 10. IN all its endeavors   shall emphasize ways to support the long-term development plans of each historically Black college and university. The Secretary of  , with the advice of  , shall develop alternative sources of faculty talent, particularly in the fields of science and technology, including faculty exchanges and referrals from other institutions of higher education, private sector retirees, Federal employees and retirees, and emeritus faculty members at other institutions of higher education.

 . 11. The Director of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall develop a program to improve recruitment and participation of graduates and undergraduate students of historically Black colleges and universities in part-time and   positions in  .

 . 12.     shall report to the President on the progress achieved in enhancing the role and capabilities of historically Black colleges and universities, including an   Performance Report on Executive Agency Actions to Assist Historically Black Colleges and Universities that appraises agency actions during  . The Secretary of   shall disseminate the   report to appropriate members of the   branch and make every effort to ensure that findings of   are taken into account in the policies and actions of every   agency, including any appropriate recommendations for improving the   response directed by this order.

 . 13. Participating Executive agencies shall submit their   plans to the Secretary of   not  .   and Universities developed by the Secretary of   shall be ready for consideration by the President not   April 30 of each year.

 .  . The Secretary of   is directed to establish an   entitled the President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended which are applicable to   to be established by this order, shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 15. Executive  .   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .
