Executive Order  —  and Prohibiting Transactions With  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   et seq.),   et seq.), section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and   in view of   Resolution No. 661 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to  's invasion of   and the national emergency declared in Executive Order No.  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, all property and interests in property of   that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of   persons, including their overseas branches, are hereby blocked.

 . 2. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations that may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order:

(a) The importation into   of any goods or services of   origin, or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such importation;

(b) The exportation to  , or to any entity operated from  , or owned or controlled by  , directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information), or services either (i) from  , or (ii) requiring the issuance of a license by a Federal agency, or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such exportation, except donations of articles intended to relieve human suffering, such as food and supplies intended strictly for medical purposes;

(c) Any dealing by a   person related to property of   origin exported from   after  , or property intended for exportation from   to any country, or exportation to   from any country, or any activity of any kind that promotes or is intended to promote such dealing;

(d) Any transaction by a   person relating to travel by any   citizen or permanent resident alien to  , or to activities by any such person within  , after the date of this order, other than transactions necessary to effect (i) such person's departure from  , (ii) travel and activities for the conduct of the official business of   or  , or (iii) travel for journalistic activity by persons regularly employed in such capacity by a news-gathering organization;

(e) Any transaction by a   person relating to transportation to or from  ; the provision of transportation to or from   by any   person or any vessel or aircraft of   registration; or the sale in   by any person holding authority under the Federal Aviation Act of  , as amended et seq.), of any transportation by air that includes any stop in  ;

(f) The performance by any   person of any contract, including a financing contract, in support of an industrial, commercial, public utility, or governmental project in  ;

(g) Except as otherwise authorized herein, any commitment or transfer, direct or indirect, of funds, or other financial or economic resources by any   person to   or any other person in  ;

(h) Any transaction by any   person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, any of the prohibitions set forth in this order.

 . 3. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   (including foreign branches), or any person in  , and vessels of   registration.

(b) the term "Government of Iraq" includes  , its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, and  .

 . 4. This order is effective immediately.

 . 5. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value by any   person to  , or to any   national or entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by   or   nationals. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of  . All agencies of   are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including the suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 6. Executive  .   of August 2, 1,990, is hereby revoked to the extent inconsistent with this order. All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, and other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under Executive Order No.   and not revoked administratively shall remain in full force and effect under this order until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority. The revocation of any provision of Executive Order No.   pursuant to this section shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action under that order during the period that such provision of that order was in effect.

This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .
