Executive Order   
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), an advisory committee on environmental quality, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established   ("Commission"). The   shall comprise not more than 25 members to be appointed by the President. One of the members shall be the Chairman of  . The remaining members shall be individuals from the private sector who have experience in various aspects of environmental and natural resources matters. The Chairman of   shall serve as Chairman of the   and shall report directly to the President.

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) The Commission, through the Chairman, shall advise the President on matters involving environmental quality.

(b) The Chairman may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the   and may direct the members to investigate and report to the   on specific environmental issues of national consequence.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the   such information with respect to environmental and natural resources matters as the   requires for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707).

(c) Any expenses of the   shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of  .

(d)   shall, on a reimbusable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required.

 . 4.

General.

Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 

 ,

 .
