Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended an advisory committee on science and technology, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established the President's   ("Council"). The   shall be composed of not more than 15 members, one of whom shall be the Director of  , and 14 of whom shall be distinguished individuals from the private sector to be appointed by the President. The Director of   shall serve as Chairman of the  . The Vice Chairman shall be appointed by the President from among the 14 private sector members. The Chairman shall report directly to the President.

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) The   shall advise the President on matters involving all areas of science and technology.

(b) In the performance of its advisory duties the   shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of developments in science and technology, and shall, through the Chairman, report thereon to the President whenever requested.

(c) The Chairman may, from time to time, invite experts to investigate and report to the   on specific issues of national consequence.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   and its panels such information with respect to scientific and technological matters as required for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707).

(c) Any expenses of the   shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of  .

(d)   shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required.

 . 4.

General.

(a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .
