Executive Order  —  with   to    and  )
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), section 5 of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in view of   Resolutions No. 757 of  , and No. 787 of  , and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of    and  ) and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No.   and expanded in Executive Order No.  ,

I,  , President of  , hereby order:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date of this order:

(a) Any transaction within   or by a   person related to the transshipment of commodities or products through    and  ); and

(b) Any transaction within   or by a   person relating to any vessel in which a majority or controlling interest is held by a person or entity in, or operating from,    and  ) regardless of the flag under which the vessel sails.

 . 2. Any vessel in which a majority or controlling interest is held by a person or entity in, or operating from,    and  ) shall be considered as a vessel of    and  ) regardless of the flag under which the vessel sails.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating trade and financial transactions involving any areas of the territory of the former   as to which there is inadequate assurance that such transactions will not be diverted to the benefit of    and  ). The Secretary of the   may redelegate the authority set forth in this order to other officers and agencies of  , all agencies of which are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this order.

 . 4. Section 3(i) of Executive Order No.   is hereby revoked.

 . 5. The definitions contained in Section 5 of Executive Order No.   apply to the terms used in this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.

 . 7. (a) This order is effective immediately.

(b) This order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
