Executive Order  —Implementation of the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of   ("Act"), as amended by section 1512 of Public Law 101-624, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The functions vested in the President by sections 603, 604, 611, and 614 of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the   ("Secretary"), who shall exercise such functions in accordance with recommendations of   ("Council"), as established by Executive Order No.   of  . The Secretary of  , when necessary, shall report to the   regarding the need to review the implementation of environmental programs pursuant to section 611 of the Act.

 . 2. (a) For purposes of section 1 of this order only, the membership of the   shall be expanded to include the following: the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and the Administrator of  .

(b) Whenever matters being considered by the   may be of interest to an agency not represented on the  , the chairperson may invite a representative of such agency to participate in meetings and deliberations of the  .

(c) In the event of a disagreement among agencies represented on the  , the Secretary shall refer the issue to the appropriate  -level body designated by the President.

 . 3. (a) The functions vested in the President by section 607 of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of  , in consultation with  ,  ,  ,  ,  , the   for International Development, and any other agency determined by the Secretary of   to have an interest in an environmental framework agreement.

(b) Pursuant to section 610(c) of the Act, the Environment for   shall also advise the Secretary of   on the negotiations of the environmental framework agreements.

(c) The Secretary of   shall ensure that the elements and requirements for   established in section 607(c) of the Act shall be included in the environmental framework agreements.

 . 4. (a) The five   members of the Environment for   ("Board") established by section 610 of the Act shall be representatives from  ,  ,  , the   for International Development, and  .

(b)  ,  , and other appropriate agencies may each send representatives to the meetings of the  , and such representative may participate in the activities of the  .

(c) The representative from   shall be the chairperson of the Board. The representative from   shall be the vice chairperson of the Board. The representative from   shall serve as secretary of  .

(1) The chairperson shall be responsible for presiding over the meetings of the  , ensuring that the views of all other participants are taken into account, and coordinating with other appropriate agencies in assisting the   in its review of the fiscal audits conducted pursuant to section 607(c)(4) of the Act.

(2) The vice chairperson shall be responsible for serving as liaison between the   and local governments, local nongovernmental organizations, and the local   in Latin America and the Caribbean, and for coordinating the international activities related to programs funded under the Act.

(3) The secretary of the   shall be responsible for coordinating the preparation of materials for Board discussion, including the technical reviews of the   programs and reports required to be submitted to the   under section 607(c)(5) and (c)(6) of the Act, and for preparing official minutes of Board discussions.

(d) The four private nongovernmental organization members of the   shall be chosen by the President.

 . 5. No new agreement under Title I of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of  , as amended by section 1512 of Public Law 101-624, and no new credit agreement under   of   shall be entered into with any country that is in default with respect to the payment of principal or interest on any obligation issued pursuant to section 604 of the Act unless such country meets its obligations or unless the President so authorizes.

 . 6. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.

 

 ,

 .
