Executive Order  —Providing for the Restoration of Law and Order in   of  , and Other Districts of  
 
 Whereas, I have   issued Proclamation No.  ; and

Whereas, the conditions of domestic violence and disorder described therein continue, and the persons engaging in such acts of violence have not dispersed;

Now, Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and Commander in Chief of   by the Constitution and the laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Units and members of   and Federal law enforcement officers will be used to suppress the violence described in the proclamation and to restore law and order in and about   of  , and other districts of  .

 . 2. The Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of section 1. To that end, he is authorized to call into the active military service of   units or members of  , as authorized by law, to serve in an active duty status for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. Units or members may be relieved subject to recall at the discretion of the Secretary of  .

In carrying out the provisions of this order, the Secretary of   shall observe such law enforcement policies as the Attorney General may determine.

 . 3. Until such time as the   shall have been withdrawn pursuant to section 4 of this order, the Attorney General is further authorized (1) to coordinate the activities of all Federal agencies assisting in the suppression of violence and in the administration of justice in and about   of  , and other districts of  , and (2) to coordinate the activities of all such agencies with those of   and local agencies similarly engaged.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to determine when Federal military forces shall be withdrawn from the disturbance area and when   units and members called into the active military service of   in accordance with section 2 of this order shall be released from such active service. Such determination shall be made in the light of the Attorney General's recommendations as to the ability of   and local authorities to resume full responsibility for the maintenance of law and order in the affected area.

 . 5. The Secretary of   and the Attorney General are authorized to delegate to subordinate officials of their respective   any of the authority conferred upon them by this order.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this order shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers, or its employees.

 

 ,

 .

Note: This Executive order will be published in   on  .
