Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended an advisory committee to assist in the development, dissemination, explanation, and promotion of national drug control policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment.

(a) There is established   in  . The   shall be composed of not more than 30 members appointed by the President from among citizens in private life.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2.

Functions.

(a) The   shall recommend to and advise the President and the Director of   on developing methods and means to explain national drug control policies to the   people.

(b) The   shall recommend to and advise the President and the Director of   on promotional efforts to encourage the private sector to implement national drug control policies.

(c) The   shall study the feasibility of establishing a national support organization to help coordinate private sector initiatives to implement national drug control policies, and, in consultation with the President and the Director of  , shall provide advice to assist in the establishment of such support organization.

(d) The   shall meet with and solicit the advice of various members of the media and communications field, and, in consultation with the President and the Director of  , shall provide advice in coordinating efforts of the private sector to inform the public of the dangers of illegal drug use.

(e) The   shall devise means to solicit the views and advice of the   people regarding the development and implementation of national drug control policy. In consultation with the President and the Director of  , the   shall utilize forums and seminars in various regions of the country to assist in this function.

(f) The Chairman of the   shall report to the President and the Director of  , whenever requested.

 . 3.

Administration.

(a) Members of the   shall serve without compensation.

(b) Members of the   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service -5707).

(c)   shall provide administrative staff support to the  , to assist in its day-to-  operations.

(d) To the extent permitted by law, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall provide the Chairman of the  , upon request, with such information as the Chairman may require for the purposes of carrying out the  's functions.

 . 4.

General Provisions.

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Director of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .
