Executive Order 12820— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , as amended, and in order to ensure that   encourages its employees' participation in community service, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Sectin 1.

Charge to the   and Members of  .

(a) The head of   and agency shall encourage agency employees to participate voluntarily in direct and consequential community service. Community service participation may include, among other things, participation in programs, activities and initiatives designed to address problems such as drug abuse, crime, homelessness, illiteracy, AIDS, teenage pregnancy, and hunger, and problems associated with low-income housing, education, health care and the environment.   and   shall serve as a resource to provide information and support.

(b) The head of   and agency shall designate a senior official of his or her department or agency to provide leadership in and support for the   commitment to community servive through employee awareness and participation within his or her department and agency. The senior official shall report to his or her department or agency head to ensure that community service activities receive a high level of visibility and promotion.

(c) The head of   and agency shall designate an existing office in his or her department or agency to perform the functions listed below. The office shall serve as   and will be responsible for:

(1) Providing information to employees of the department or agency concerning community service opportunities;

(2) Working with   and   to consider any appropriate changes in department or agency policies or practices that would encourage employee participation in community service activities; and

(3) Acting as a liaison with   and  .

 . 2.

Administrative Provisions.

  and   shall provide such information with respect to community service programs and activities and such advice and assistance as may be required by the departments and agencies for the purpose of carrying out their functions under this order.

 . 3.

Reporting Provisions.

The head of each   department or agency, or is or her designee, shall submit an   report on the actions the department or agency has taken to encourage its employees to participate in community service to   not  .

 

 ,

 .
