Executive Order  —  in the Federal Government
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to coordinate and implement policies with respect to management improvement in  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Establishment and Membership of the President's  .

(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's   ("Council").

(b) The   shall be composed of the Deputy Director for  , who shall serve as Chairman, and one senior official, who is a full-time officer or employee of   and who is responsible for management or administration, from each of the following agencies as selected by the heads of those agencies:

(1)  ;

(2) Department of the  ;

(3)  ;

(4)  ;

(5) Department of the Interior;

(6)  ;

(7)  ;

(8) Department of Labor;

(9)  ;

(10)  ;

(11)  ;

(12)  ;

(13)  ;

(14)  ;

(15) Agency for  ;

(16)  ;

(17) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission;

(18)  ;

(19)  ;

(20)  ;

(21)  ;

(22)  ;

(23)  ;

(24)  ;

(25)  ;

(26)  ;

(27)  ;

(28)  ;

(29)  ;

(30)  ;

(31)  ;

(32)  ; and

(33)  .

(c) The   membership also shall include the following officials:

(1) Deputy Director,  ;

(2) Deputy Administrator,  ;

(3) Assistant to the President for Policy Development or a full-time officer or employee of   designated by that official;

(4) Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel or a full-time officer or employee of   designated by that official;

(5) Assistant Director for  ; and

(6) At-large members appointed by the Chairman pursuant to section 3(e) of this order.

(d) The   shall have a Vice Chairman selected by the Chairman from among the   membership.

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall serve as an interagency forum to discuss problems and recommend improvements in   management and operations and to provide advice to the Chairman on matters pertaining to the management of  . The   shall:

(1) assist in the formulation of short- and long-range plans to promote improvements in the management and administrative systems and operations of  ;

(2) identify specific department and agency management solutions that may have   application and assist in the dissemination of this information and the implementation of these solutions;

(3) serve as a resource to assist in an advisory capacity in the development, review, revision, and implementation of Governmentwide policies in support of the central management agencies of  , including  ,  , and  ; and

(4) serve as a forum to recommend solutions to interagency management problems.

(b) In conducting these functions, the   shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies.

 . 3.

Responsibilities of the Chairman.

The Chairman shall:

(a) establish, in consultation with the   membership as he deems appropriate, procedures and agenda topics for the  ;

(b) report, on behalf of the   and as appropriate, to the President, the Director of  , the agency heads, and the   on the goals and accomplishments of the  ;

(c) establish such committees or working groups of the  , including an executive committee, as the Chairman may find necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of   functions;

(d) appoint a Vice Chairman from among the  's membership to assist the Chairman in representing the   and to perform duties as determined by the Chairman;

(e) appoint other full-time officers or employees of   to the   as at-large members for specific terms to provide special expertise to the   and to perform duties as determined by the Chairman; and

(f) be supported by the Assistant Director for  , who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the responsibilities set forth above and act for the Chairman in his or her absence.

 . 4.

Administrative Provisions.

(a) The Director of   shall provide the   with administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

(b) To the extent permitted by law, the head of each agency represented on the   shall provide its representative with such administrative support as necessary to enable the agency representative to carry out his or her responsibilities and to support the   activities of the  .

 . 5.

Revocation.

Executive Order No.   is revoked.

 

 ,

 .
