Executive Order 12692— 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1 Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  

(a)  ; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(b) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(c)  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(d) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(e) President's   and the  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended (National Endowment for the Arts).

(f) President's  ; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(g) President's  ; Executive Order No.   ( ).

(h) President's Committee on  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(i) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(j) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended ( ).

(k) President's  ; Executive Order No.  , as amended (Departmetn of Defense).

 . 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in Section 1 of this order, except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after such committee, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 3. The following Executive orders, which established committees that have terminated or whose work is completed, are revoked:

(a) Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishign the President's  . (b) Executive Order No.  , establishing  .

(c) Executive Order No.  , establishing  .

(d) Executive Order No.  , establishing  .

(e) Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishing the President's  .

(f) Executive Order No.  , as amended by  .  , establishing  .

(g) Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No.  , establishing  .

 . 4. Executive  .   is superseded.

 . 5. This order shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .
