Section 1

.

Purpose

.  's truck drivers are essential to the strength of our economy, the security of our  , and the livelihoods of the   people.  , truckers perform the demanding and dangerous work of transporting the  's goods to businesses, customers, and communities safely, reliably, and efficiently.

Proficiency in English, which I designated as our official national language in Executive Order   (Designating English as the Official Language of the United States), should be a non-negotiable safety requirement for professional drivers. They should be able to read and understand traffic signs, communicate with traffic safety, border patrol, agricultural checkpoints, and cargo weight-limit station officers. Drivers need to provide feedback to their employers and customers and receive related directions in English. This is common sense.

That is why Federal law requires that, to operate a commercial vehicle, a driver must "read and speak the English language sufficiently to converse with the general public, to understand highway traffic signs and signals in the English language, to respond to official inquiries, and to make entries on reports and records." Yet this requirement has not been enforced in  , and  's roadways have become less safe.

My Administration will enforce the law to protect the safety of   truckers, drivers, passengers, and others, including by upholding the safety enforcement regulations that ensure that anyone behind the wheel of a commercial vehicle is properly qualified and proficient in our national language, English.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to support  's truckers and safeguard our roadways by enforcing the commonsense English-language requirement for commercial motor vehicle drivers and removing needless regulatory burdens that undermine the working conditions of  's truck drivers. This order will help ensure a safe, secure, and efficient motor carrier industry.

 . 3

.

Upholding English Proficiency Requirements for Commercial Motor Vehicle Operators

. (a) The Secretary of  , acting through   (FMCSA), shall, within   of the date of this order, rescind the guidance document titled, "English Language Proficiency Testing and Enforcement Policy MC–ECE–2016–006," issued on  , and issue new guidance to FMCSA and enforcement personnel outlining revised inspection procedures necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of 49 C.F.R. 391.11(b)(2).

(b) In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of  , through  , shall take all necessary and appropriate actions, consistent with applicable law, to ensure that the out-of-service criteria are revised such that a violation of the English language proficiency requirement results in the driver being placed out-of-service, including by working with the relevant entities responsible for establishing the out-of-service criteria.

 . 4

.

Strengthening Commercial Driver's  

. The Secretary of  , through  , shall:

(a) review non-domiciled commercial driver's licenses (CDLs) issued by relevant State agencies to identify any unusual patterns or numbers or other irregularities with respect to non- domiciled   issuance; and

(b) evaluate and take appropriate actions to improve the effectiveness of current protocols for verifying the authenticity and validity of both domestic and international commercial driving credentials.

 . 5

.

  Truck Drivers

. Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall identify and begin carrying out additional administrative, regulatory, or enforcement actions to improve the working conditions of  's truck drivers.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for this order's publication in  .

 

 ,  .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
