Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

.   will no longer tolerate known risks to children's safety and well-being in the classroom that result from the application of school discipline based on discriminatory and unlawful "equity" ideology.

In  ,   and   jointly issued a "Dear Colleague" letter regarding school discipline. In that letter,   and   explained that schools could be found to violate Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of  —and therefore could lose   funding—if their disciplinary decisions ran afoul of a newly imposed disparate-impact framework under which race-neutral disciplinary policies, applied in an even-handed manner, may be improper if members of any racial groups are suspended, expelled, or referred to law enforcement at higher rates than others. The letter effectively required schools to discriminate on the basis of race by imposing discipline based on racial characteristics, rather than on objective behavior alone.

The consequences harmed students and schools. A   report from  ) noted evidence that, because of the   letter, "schools ignored or covered up—rather than disciplined—student misconduct in order to avoid any purported racial disparity in discipline numbers that might catch the eye of the federal government." As a result, students who should have been suspended or expelled for dangerous behavior remained in the classroom, making all students less safe.

As the   found: "When school leaders focus on aggregate school discipline numbers rather than the specific circumstances and conduct that underlie each matter, schools become less safe," and "[r]esearch clearly indicates that the failure of schools to appropriately discipline disruptive students has consequences for overall student achievement." The  's seemingly obvious conclusion was that "disciplinary decisions are best left in the hands of classroom teachers and administrators" and should be based on student behavior, rather than racial statistics.

Following the  's report on  , the   Dear Colleague letter was rescinded. In  , however, the previous administration's   and   issued new guidance noting that statistical racial disparities in student discipline may indicate violations of law, and encouraging schools to collect, analyze, and adjust their disciplinary policies in light of racial disciplinary data. The   guidance thus effectively reinstated the practice of weaponizing Title VI to promote an approach to school discipline based on discriminatory equity ideology. As a consequence of these policies, teachers and students are suffering increased levels of classroom disorder and school violence.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. As used herein:

(a) The definitions in   of   (  in  ), shall apply to this order.

(b) "Behavior Modification Techniques" means any school discipline policies or practices that incorporate or are based on discriminatory equity ideology.

 . 3

.

 .

(a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General, shall issue new guidance to local educational agencies (LEAs) and   educational agencies (SEAs) regarding school discipline and their obligations not to engage in racial discrimination under Title VI in all contexts, including school discipline.

(b) The Secretary of   shall take appropriate action with respect to LEAs and SEAs that fail to comply with   protections against racial discrimination in the application of school discipline.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Attorney General shall initiate coordination with   and State Attorneys General regarding the prevention of racial discrimination in the application of school discipline.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall issue a revised school discipline code that appropriately protects and enhances the education of the children of  's military-service families.

(e) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , submit a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, regarding the status of discriminatory-equity-ideology-based school discipline and behavior modification techniques in   public education. The report shall include:

(i) an inventory and analysis of the nature and consequences of all Title VI discipline-related investigations since  ;

(ii) an assessment of the role of non-profit organizations that are   grant recipients in promoting discriminatory-equity-ideology-based discipline and behavior modification techniques, and recommendations to ensure that Federal taxpayer funds do not flow to programs or activities, including those of non-profit organizations, that promote discriminatory-equity-ideology-based discipline and behavior modification techniques;

(iii) an assessment of discipline-related policies and curricular options that do not promote discriminatory equity ideology; and

(iv) model school discipline policies that promote common sense, protect the safety and educational environment of students, do not promote unlawful discrimination, and are rooted in   values and traditional virtues.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
