Section 1

.

Purpose

.   helped found   ( ) after World War II to prevent future global conflicts and promote international peace and security. But some of the  's agencies and bodies have drifted from this mission and instead act contrary to the interests of   while attacking our allies and propagating  . As in  , when   withdrew from   (UNHRC),   will reevaluate our commitment to these institutions.

Three   organizations that deserve renewed scrutiny are the  ;  , and   ( ); and   for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( ).

  has reportedly been infiltrated by members of groups long designated by the Secretary of   (Secretary) as foreign terrorist organizations, and   employees were involved in  ,   attack on  . UNHRC has protected human rights abusers by allowing them to use the organization to shield themselves from scrutiny, while   has demonstrated failure to reform itself, has continually demonstrated   sentiment over  , and has failed to address concerns over mounting arrears.

 . 2

.

UNHRC and UNESCO Participation

. (a)   will not participate in the   and will not seek election to that body. The Secretary shall terminate the office of   Representative to the   and any positions primarily dedicated to supporting   Representative to the  .

(b)   will also conduct a review of its membership in  . This review shall be led by the Secretary, in coordination with   Representative to   (  Ambassador), and must be completed within   of the date of this order. The review will include an evaluation of how and if   supports   interests. In particular, the review will include an analysis of any   or   sentiment within the organization.

 . 3

.

Funding

. (a) Executive departments and agencies shall not use any funds for a contribution, grant, or other payment to  , consistent with section 301 of title III, division G, of Public Law 118-47 ( ). The Secretary shall withdraw the determination previously made under section 7048(c)(1) of title VII, division F, of Public Law 118-47. Accordingly, of the funds appropriated for a contribution to   under the heading "Contributions to International Organizations" of Public Law 118-47, as most recently continued by   ( ), the Secretary shall withhold the   proportionate share of the total   amount of   funding for the  , consistent with section 7048(c) of title VII, division F, of Public Law 118-47.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary, in consultation with the   Ambassador, shall conduct a review of all international intergovernmental organizations of which   is a member and provides any type of funding or other support, and all conventions and treaties to which   is a party, to determine which organizations, conventions, and treaties are contrary to the interests of   and whether such organizations, conventions, or treaties can be reformed. Upon the conclusion of that review, the Secretary shall report the findings to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , and provide recommendations as to whether   should withdraw from any such organizations, conventions, or treaties.

 . 4

.

Notification

. The Secretary shall inform the   Secretary General and the leadership of   and the   High Commissioner for Human Rights that   will not fund   or the   and that   will not satisfy any claims to pay   assessments or prior arrears by these organizations.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
