Section 1

.

Purpose

. Article II of the United States Constitution vests the President with the sole and exclusive authority over the executive branch, including the authority to manage the Federal workforce to ensure effective execution of Federal law. A critical aspect of this executive function is the responsibility to maintain professionalism and accountability within the civil service. This accountability is sorely lacking  . Only 41 percent of civil service supervisors are confident that they can remove an employee who engaged in insubordination or serious misconduct. Even fewer supervisors—26 percent—are confident that they can remove an employee for poor performance.

Accountability is essential for all Federal employees, but it is especially important for those who are in policy-influencing positions. These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a significant impact on all  . Any power they have is delegated by the President, and they must be accountable to the President, who is the only member of the executive branch, other than the Vice President, elected and directly accountable to the   people. In  , however, there have been numerous and well-documented cases of career Federal employees resisting and undermining the policies and directives of their executive leadership. Principles of good administration, therefore, necessitate action to restore accountability to the career civil service, beginning with positions of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.

 . 2

.

Reinstatement of Prior Administration Policy

. Executive Order   (Creating Schedule F in  ), is hereby immediately reinstated with full force and effect, subject to the amendments described in section 3 of this order; provided that the date of this order shall be treated as the date of Executive Order  .

 . 3

.

Amendments to Prior Administration Policy

. Executive Order   is amended as follows:

(a) replace the letter "F" throughout, when used to designate an excepted service schedule, with the words "Policy/Career";

(b) in section 1:

(i) remove the text between the words "make necessary" in the seventh paragraph and "excepting such positions" in the eighth paragraph; and

(ii) insert the text "competitive service and the" immediately before the words "adverse action procedures" in the eighth paragraph;

(c) in section 4(a)(i), replace the word "Positions" with the words "Career positions" in the final paragraph;

(d) in section 4(b)(i), add the text "providing for the application of  ) to   positions and" after the words "as appropriate";

(e) in section 5:

(i) insert the words "recommend that the President" immediately after the words "petition the Director to" in subsection (a)(i);

(ii) insert the following text at the end of subsection (c):

"(vi) directly or indirectly supervising employees in   positions; or

(vii) duties that the Director otherwise indicates may be appropriate for inclusion in  ."; and

(iii) amend subsection (d) to read "The Director shall promptly recommend to the President which positions should be placed in  .";

(f) in section 6:

(i) designate the existing text as new subsection

"(a)";

(ii) insert a new subsection (b) that reads:

"(b) Employees in or applicants for   positions are not required to personally or politically support the current President or the policies of the current administration. They are required to faithfully implement administration policies to the best of their ability, consistent with their constitutional oath and the vesting of executive authority solely in the President. Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal."

 . 4

.

Conforming Regulatory Changes

. The Director of   (Director) shall promptly amend   to rescind all changes made by the final rule of  , "Upholding Civil Service Protections and  ," 89

 

.

Reg

.  , that impede the purposes of or would otherwise affect the implementation of Executive Order  . Until such rescissions are effectuated (including the resolution of any judicial review), 5   part 302, subpart F, 5 CFR 210.102(b)(3), and 5 CFR 210.102(b)(4) shall be held inoperative and without effect.

 . 5

.

Additional Positions for Consideration

. Within   of the date of this order, the Director shall, after consultation with   of the President, issue guidance about additional categories of positions that executive departments and agencies should consider recommending for  .

 . 6

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   (Protecting the Federal Workforce), is hereby revoked, and any rules, regulations, guidance, or other agency policies effectuated under Executive Order   shall not be enforced. The heads of each executive department and agency shall review and identify existing agency actions relating to or arising under section 3(e)(v) and 3(f) of Executive Order   (relating to suspending, revising, or rescinding revisions to discipline and unacceptable performance policies) and, as soon as practicable, suspend, revise, or rescind such actions identified in the review.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
