Section 1

.

Purpose

. Over  ,   has been inundated with record levels of migration, including through   (USRAP). Cities and small towns alike, from  ,  , and  ,  , to  , have seen significant influxes of migrants. Even major urban centers such as  ,  , and   have sought   aid to manage the burden of new arrivals. Some jurisdictions, like   and  , have even recently declared states of emergency because of increased migration.

  lacks the ability to absorb large numbers of migrants, and in particular, refugees, into its communities in a manner that does not compromise the availability of resources for  , that protects their safety and security, and that ensures the appropriate assimilation of refugees. This order suspends the   until such time as the further entry into   of refugees aligns with the interests of  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure that public safety and national security are paramount considerations in the administration of the  , and to admit only those refugees who can fully and appropriately assimilate into   and to ensure that   preserves taxpayer resources for its citizens. It is also the policy of   that, to the extent permitted by law and as practicable,   and local jurisdictions be granted a role in the process of determining the placement or settlement in their jurisdictions of aliens eligible to be admitted to   as refugees.

 . 3

.

Realignment of  

. (a) I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that entry into   of refugees under the   would be detrimental to the interests of  . I therefore direct that entry into   of refugees under the USRAP be suspended—subject to the exceptions set forth in subsection (c) of this section—until a finding is made in accordance with section 4 of this order. This suspension shall take effect at 12:01 am eastern standard time on  .

(b) The Secretary of   shall suspend decisions on applications for refugee status, until a finding is made in accordance with section 4 of this order.

(c) Notwithstanding the suspension of the   imposed pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   may jointly determine to admit aliens to   as refugees on a case-by-case basis, in their discretion, but only so long as they determine that the entry of such aliens as refugees is in the national interest and does not pose a threat to the security or welfare of  .

(d) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General, shall examine existing law to determine the extent to which, consistent with applicable law,   and local jurisdictions may have greater involvement in the process of determining the placement or resettlement of refugees in their jurisdictions, and shall devise a proposal to lawfully promote such involvement. In all cases, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall ensure that the   and local consultation requirements in 8 U.S.C. 1522(a)(2) are carried out with respect to all refugees admitted to  .

 . 4

.

Resumption of  

. Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall submit a report to the President through the   regarding whether resumption of entry of refugees into   under the USRAP would be in the interests of  , in light of the policies outlined in section 2 of this order. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall submit further reports   thereafter until I determine that resumption of the   is in the interests of  .

 . 5

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   of   (Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To   for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration), is hereby revoked.

 . 6

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
