Section 1

.

Purpose

. (a) As Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief of  , I have no more solemn responsibility than protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of   along our national borders. The protection of a nation's territorial integrity and national boundaries is paramount for its security.

(b)   have played a long and well-established role in securing our borders against threats of invasion, against unlawful forays by foreign nationals into  , and against other transnational criminal activities that violate our laws and threaten the peace, harmony, and tranquility of the Nation. These threats have taken a variety of forms over our  's history, but   have consistently played an integral role in protecting the sovereignty of  .

(c) Threats against our  's sovereignty continue  , and it is essential that   staunchly continue to participate in the defense of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. A National Emergency currently exists along the southern border of  . Unchecked unlawful mass migration and the unimpeded flow of opiates across our borders continue to endanger the safety and security of the   people and encourage further lawlessness. Accordingly, through this order, I am acting in accordance with my solemn duty to protect and defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of   along our national borders.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure that   prioritize the protection of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of   along our national borders.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. The Secretary of   shall:

(a)   from the effective date of this order, deliver to the President a revision to   that assigns   ( ) the mission to seal the borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of   by repelling forms of invasion including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities.

(b) On the effective date of this order, add the following requirements to  (i) A Level 3 planning requirement for   to seal the borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of   by repelling forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities, with a commander's estimate due to the Secretary of   within   of the effective date of this order.

(ii) A campaign planning requirement for   to provide steady-state southern border security, seal the border, and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of   by repelling forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities.

(iii)   assessments of all available options to protect the sovereign territory of   from mass unlawful entry and impingement on our national sovereignty and security by foreign nations and transnational criminal organizations.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
