Section 1. Purpose

. Unmanned aircraft systems ( ), otherwise known as drones, offer the potential to enhance public safety as well as cement  's leadership in global innovation. But criminals, terrorists, and hostile foreign actors have intensified their weaponization of these technologies, creating new and serious threats to our homeland. Drug cartels use   to smuggle fentanyl across our borders, deliver contraband into prisons, surveil law enforcement, and otherwise endanger the public. Mass gatherings are vulnerable to disruptions and threats by unauthorized   flights. Critical infrastructure, including military bases, is subject to frequent—and often unidentified—  incursions. Immediate action is needed to ensure   sovereignty over its skies and that its airspace remains safe and secure.

 . 2. Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "unmanned aircraft systems" or " " has the meaning given in 49 U.S.C.  ;

(b) the term "critical infrastructure" has the meaning given in 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e), and includes systems and assets in all of the designated critical infrastructure sectors identified in   Memorandum 22 of   (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience) (NSM–22); and

(c) the term   or "SRMA" has the same meaning given in 6 U.S.C. 650 and as further described in  .

 . 3. Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure control over our national airspace and to protect the public, critical infrastructure, mass gathering events, and military and sensitive government installations and operations from threats posed by the careless or unlawful use of  .

 . 4. Task Force to Restore American Airspace Sovereignty

. To assist in ensuring control over our national airspace, there is hereby established   (Task Force). The Task Force shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA) or a designee, and include principals, or their designees, from appropriate executive departments and agencies as identified by the APNSA. The Task Force shall review relevant operational, technical, and regulatory frameworks and develop and propose solutions to   threats, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, and shall make recommendations on the implementation of all actions identified in this order.

 . 5.   to Protect the Public

. The Administrator of   ( ) shall:

(a) with respect to the rulemaking required by section 2209(f) of  , and Security Act of  , as amended:

(i) promptly submit a notice of proposed rulemaking ( ) to   (OMB) and   establishing the statutorily required process for restricting drone flights over fixed site facilities, and interpreting, to the extent appropriate, critical infrastructure consistent with the definition of that term in this order; and

(ii) promulgate a final rule as soon as practicable after publication of the  ;

(b) make national security and homeland security assessments under section 2209 in coordination with   (SRMAs), the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , or the Attorney General, as appropriate, and whenever military installations or operations are implicated, with the Secretary of  ; and

(c) within   of the date of this order, make freely available online   to Airmen (NOTAMs) and Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFRs) in an open format easily accepted for drone geofencing and Aircraft Navigation and Guidance system purposes. This online availability should supplement, but not replace, existing NOTAMs and   promulgation methods.

 . 6. Enhancing  

. (a) the Attorney General, in coordination with    , shall take appropriate steps to ensure full enforcement of applicable civil and criminal laws when drone operators endanger the public, violate established airspace restrictions, or operate a drone in furtherance of an element of another crime;

(b) on a recurring basis, the Attorney General shall submit to the President, through the APNSA, legislative proposals that would revise criminal penalties for violations of restricted airspace; and

(c) within   of the date of this order, and to the extent allowed by law, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall ensure that their respective departments' grant programs permit otherwise eligible  , local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) agencies to receive grants to purchase   or equipment or services for the detection, tracking, or identification of drones and drone signals, consistent with the legal authorities of those SLTTs.

 . 7. Detection, Tracking, and   and  

. (a) To the extent permitted by law and consistent with the Fourth Amendment, executive departments and agencies shall use all available existing authorities to employ equipment to detect, track, and identify drones and drone signals.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Chairman of   shall revise the   "Advisory on the Application of Federal Laws to the Acquisition and Use of Technology to Detect and  " to reflect relevant developments in Federal law and regulations addressing drones.

(c) Within   of this order,     shall provide, to the extent permitted by law, including the Privacy Act of   (5 U.S.C. 552a), automated real-time access to personal identifying information associated with   remote identification signals to appropriate executive departments and agencies and   agencies for the purposes of enforcing applicable   law, with appropriate national security and privacy safeguards.

(d) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Administrator of the  , in coordination with the heads of other SRMAs as appropriate, shall publish guidance to aid private critical infrastructure owners or operators in employing technologies to detect, track, and identify drones and drone signals.

 . 8. Enhancing General Protections

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall submit a recommendation to the President, through the APNSA, using risk-based assessment as defined in 6 U.S.C. 124n(k)(8), on whether the northern and southern land borders; large airports; Federal facilities; critical infrastructure; and military installations, facilities, and assets should be designated as covered facilities or assets under 6 U.S.C.   and 10 U.S.C. 130i and whether any changes to law would be necessary relating to such designation.

 . 9.  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall explore integrating counter-  operational responses as part of   for the purpose of protecting mass gathering events.

(b) The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  , acting through    ; the Secretary of  ; the Director of OMB; and the Chairman of  , shall promptly take all appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of the   Feasibility Report to   with regard to the creation of  ), and, upon establishment of the  , focus initial training provided by the Center on development of   and   capabilities to secure major upcoming national and international sporting events held in  , such as the FIFA World Cup 2026 and the   Summer Olympics.

 . 10. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
