Section 1. Background

.   is committed to supporting a   that is stable, unified, and at peace with itself and its neighbors. A united   that does not offer a safe haven for terrorist organizations and ensures the security of its religious and ethnic minorities will support regional security and prosperity. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of the   have taken initial steps towards this goal through the issuance on  , of   25 and a waiver of sanctions under the Caesar Act.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of   to recognize that circumstances that gave rise to the actions taken in the Executive Orders described in section 3(a) of this order, related to the policies and actions of the former regime of  , have been transformed by developments over  , including the positive actions taken by the new   government under President  . This order supports   national security and foreign policy goals by directing additional actions, including the removal of sanctions on  , the issuance of waivers that permit the relaxation of export controls and other restrictions on  , and other actions to be taken by the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of  , as well as by other executive departments and agencies (agencies) of  , without providing relief to   or other terrorist organizations, human rights abusers, those linked to chemical weapons or proliferation-related activities, or other persons that threaten the peace, security, or stability of  ,  , and its neighbors.

 . 3. Revocation of  

. (a) Effective  , I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 of   (Blocking Property of Certain Persons and Prohibiting the Export of Certain Goods to  ), and revoke that order, as well as Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of Additional Persons in Connection With the National Emergency With Respect to  ), Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of Additional Persons in Connection With the National Emergency With Respect to  ), Executive Order   (Blocking Property of Certain Persons with   in  ), Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of Senior Officials of  ), and Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of the Government of Syria and   Certain Transactions with   to  ).

(b) Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , Executive Order  , and Executive Order   shall not affect any action taken or pending proceeding not finally concluded or determined as of  , any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to  , or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to  .

 . 4. Accountability for the Former Regime of  

. I find that additional steps must be taken to ensure meaningful accountability for perpetrators of war crimes, human rights violations and abuses, and the proliferation of narcotics trafficking networks in and in relation to   during the former regime of   and by those associated with it. Perpetrators of such actions threaten to undermine peace, security, and stability in the region, and thereby constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  .

(a) I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property and Suspending Entry of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in  ), as amended in and relied on for additional steps taken in Executive Order   (Taking Additional Steps With Respect to the Situation in  ), to deal with that threat, and accordingly further amend Executive Order   by:

(i) striking section 1(a) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

"

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

(i) any person determined by the Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  :

(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, any of the following in or in relation to  :

(1) actions or policies that further threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of  ; or

(2) the commission of serious human rights abuse;

(B) to be a former government official of the former regime of   or a person who acted for or on behalf of such an official;

(C) to have engaged in, or attempted to engage in, activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the illicit production and international illicit proliferation of  ;

(D) to be responsible for or complicit in, to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or to be responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, instances in which a   national ((i) as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C.  , or (ii) a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to  ) went missing in   during the former regime of  ;

(E) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:

(1) the former regime of  ;

(2) any activity described in subsections (a)(i)(A)–(a)(i)(D) of this section; or

(3) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(F) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or

(G) to be an adult family member of a person designated under subsections (a)(i)(A)–(a)(i)(D) of this section."; and

(ii) striking section 2(a) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

"

Sec. 2

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and other officials of   as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign person any of the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, upon determining that the person, on or after the date of this order:

(i) is responsible for or complicit in, has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, or financed the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of efforts to promote a   that is stable, unified, and at peace with itself and its neighbors, including:

(A) the convening and conduct of a credible and inclusive  -led constitutional process;

(B) the preparation for and conduct of supervised elections, pursuant to the new constitution, that are free and fair and to the highest international standards of transparency and accountability; or

(C) the development of a   government that is representative and reflects the will of the   people;

(ii) is an adult family member of a person designated under subsection (a)(i) of this section; or

(iii) is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, the expropriation of property, including real property, for personal gain or political purposes in  ."

(b) I additionally amend Executive Order  Blocking   into   of Certain Persons With Respect to Grave Human Rights Abuses by the Governments of   and  ), by removing the following text from the preamble: "Executive Order 13338 of  , as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders" and replacing it with: "Executive Order   of  , and relied upon for additional steps and further amended in subsequent Executive Orders."

 . 5. Caesar Act

. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , shall examine whether the criteria set forth in section 7431(a) of the Caesar Act have been met, and on the basis of that examination may, pursuant to     (  Under   for  ), suspend in whole or in part the imposition of sanctions otherwise required under the Caesar Act. If the Secretary of   determines to suspend in whole or in part the imposition of such sanctions, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , shall provide the briefing to the appropriate congressional committees required by section 7431(b) of the Caesar Act within   of such determination. Further, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , shall continue to review the situation in  , and if the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , determines that the criteria set forth in section 7431(a) are no longer met, the Secretary of   shall reimpose sanctions.

 . 6. Syria Accountability Act

. I hereby determine pursuant to section 5(b) of the Syria Accountability Act that it is in the national security interest of   to waive the application of subsection (a)(1), with respect to items on   (supp. No. 1 to 15   part 774) only, and subsection (a)(2)(A) of the Syria Accountability Act only. The Secretary of   shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the report required under section 5(b) of that Act.

 . 7. CBW Act

. (a) Pursuant to section 307(d)(1)(B) of the CBW Act, I hereby determine and certify that there has been a fundamental change in the leadership and policies of  . Accordingly, I hereby waive the following sanctions imposed on   for the prior use of chemical weapons under the former regime of  :

(i) the restriction on foreign assistance under section 307(a)(1) of the CBW Act;

(ii) the restriction on   credit, credit guarantees, or other financial assistance under section 307(a)(4) of the CBW Act;

(iii) the restrictions on the export of national security-sensitive goods and technology under section 307(a)(5) of the CBW Act and on all other goods and technology under section 307(b)(2)(C) of the CBW Act; and

(iv) the restriction on   banks from making any loan or providing any credit to   under section 307(b)(2)(B) of the CBW Act.

(b) The Secretary of   shall transmit this waiver determination and report as required by sections 307(d)(1)(B) and (d)(2) of the CBW Act to the appropriate congressional committees. This waiver shall be effective   after it has been so transmitted.

 . 8.  

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the   and the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action with respect to the designation of  , also known as   and other aliases, as a Foreign Terrorist Organization under 8 U.S.C.   and as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist under 50 U.S.C. 1702 and Executive Order  , as well as the designation of  , commonly known as  , as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist.

(b) The Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to review the designation of   as a State Sponsor of Terrorism consistent with section 1754(c) of   for   (Public Law 115–232; 50 U.S.C. 4813(c)), section 40 of  , as amended; 22 U.S.C.  ), and section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of   (Public Law 87–195, as amended; 22 U.S.C. 2371).

 . 9.  

s. The Secretary of   shall take appropriate steps to advance   policy objectives at   to support a   that is stable and at peace and to support   efforts to counter terrorism and comply with its responsibilities and obligations concerning weapons of mass destruction, including chemical and biological weapons. The Secretary of   is further directed to explore avenues at   to provide sanctions relief in support of these objectives.

 . 10. Implementation

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of  , as appropriate, are hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within their respective agencies. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , as appropriate, is authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President in section 5 of the Syria Accountability Act and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order, consistent with applicable law.

 . 11. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
