Section 1

.

 

. Bitcoin is the original cryptocurrency. The   protocol permanently caps the total supply of bitcoin ( ) at 21 million coins, and has never been hacked. As a result of its scarcity and security,   is often referred to as "digital gold". Because there is a fixed supply of  , there is a strategic advantage to being among the first nations to create a strategic bitcoin reserve.   currently holds a significant amount of  , but has not implemented a policy to maximize  's strategic position as a unique store of value in the global financial system. Just as it is in our country's interest to thoughtfully manage national ownership and control of any other resource, our Nation must harness, not limit, the power of digital assets for our prosperity.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to establish a Strategic Bitcoin Reserve. It is further the policy of   to establish a   Digital Asset Stockpile that can serve as a secure account for orderly and strategic management of   other digital asset holdings.

 . 3

.

Creation and Administration of the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve and  

.

(a) The Secretary of the   shall establish an office to administer and maintain control of custodial accounts collectively known as the "Strategic Bitcoin Reserve," capitalized with all   held by   that was finally forfeited as part of criminal or civil asset forfeiture proceedings or in satisfaction of any civil money penalty imposed by any executive department or agency (agency) and that is not needed to satisfy requirements   U.S.C.   or released pursuant to subsection (d) of this section (Government BTC). Within   of the date of this order, each agency shall review its authorities to transfer any Government BTC held by it to   and shall submit a report reflecting the result of that review to the Secretary of the  . Government BTC deposited into the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve shall not be sold and shall be maintained as reserve assets of   utilized to meet governmental objectives in accordance with applicable law.

(b) The Secretary of the   shall establish an office to administer and maintain control of custodial accounts collectively known as  ," capitalized with all digital assets owned by  , other than  , that were finally forfeited as part of criminal or civil asset forfeiture proceedings and that are not needed to satisfy requirements   U.S.C.   or released pursuant to subsection (d) of this section (Stockpile Assets). Within   of the date of this order, each agency shall review its authorities to transfer any   held by it to   and shall submit a report reflecting the result of that review to the Secretary of the  . The Secretary of the   shall determine strategies for responsible stewardship of   in accordance with applicable law.

(c) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall develop strategies for acquiring additional Government BTC provided that such strategies are budget neutral and do not impose incremental costs on   taxpayers. However,   shall not acquire additional   Assets other than in connection with criminal or civil asset forfeiture proceedings or in satisfaction of any civil money penalty imposed by any agency without further executive or legislative action.

(d) "Government Digital Assets" means all Government BTC and all Stockpile Assets. The head of each agency shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any Government Digital Assets, except in connection with the Secretary of the  's exercise of his lawful authority and responsible stewardship of   pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, or pursuant to an order from a court of competent jurisdiction, as required by law, or in cases where the Attorney General or other relevant agency head determines that   (or the proceeds from the sale or disposition thereof) can and should:

(i) be returned to identifiable and verifiable victims of crime;

(ii) be used for law enforcement operations;

(iii) be equitably shared with   and local law enforcement partners; or

(iv) be released to satisfy requirements   U.S.C.  , 28 U.S.C. 524(c), 18 U.S.C. 981, or 21 U.S.C. 881.

(e) Within   of this order, the Secretary of the   shall deliver an evaluation of the legal and investment considerations for establishing and managing   and   going forward, including the accounts in which   and   should be located and the need for any legislation to operationalize any aspect of this order or the proper management and administration of such accounts.

 . 4

.

Accounting

. Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall provide the Secretary of the   and the President's   on   with a full accounting of all Government Digital Assets in such agency's possession, including any information regarding the custodial accounts in which such Government Digital Assets are currently held that would be necessary to facilitate a transfer of   to   or  . If such agency holds no Government Digital Assets, such agency shall confirm such fact to the Secretary of the   and the President's   on   within   of the date of this order.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
