Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   of   (Addressing Threats to   by  ), I found that the scope and gravity of recent policies, practices, and actions of   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat and, to deal with that threat, I determined that it was necessary and appropriate to impose an additional

ad  

duty rate of 40 percent on certain articles of  . Additionally, in   I to Executive Order  , I listed certain articles that, in my judgment, should not be subject to the additional

ad  

rate of duty imposed pursuant to that order.

On  , I participated in a call with   President  , during which we agreed to begin negotiations to address the concerns identified in Executive Order  . These negotiations are ongoing. I also have received additional information and recommendations from various officials who, pursuant to my direction, have been monitoring the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive Order  . For example, in their opinion, certain agricultural imports from   should no longer be subject to the additional

ad  

rate of duty imposed under Executive Order   because, among other relevant considerations, there has been initial progress in negotiations with  .

After considering the information and recommendations these officials have provided to me and the status of negotiations with  , among other things, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to modify the scope of products subject to the additional

ad  

rate of duty imposed under Executive Order  . Specifically, I have determined that certain agricultural products shall not be subject to the additional

ad  

rate of duty imposed under Executive Order  . Accordingly, an updated version of   I to Executive Order   is attached to this order, which shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  . In my judgment, these modifications are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  .

 . 2.  

. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   shall be modified as provided in Annex II to this order. The modifications shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  . To the extent that implementation of this order requires a refund of duties collected, refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable law and the standard procedures of   for such refunds.

 . 3. Implementation

. (a) The Secretary of   shall continue to monitor the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive Order   and shall regularly consult on such circumstances with any senior official he deems appropriate. The Secretary of   shall inform me of any circumstance that, in his opinion, might indicate the need for further action by the President.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Chair of  , is directed to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order, consistent with applicable law, and is hereby authorized to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate the authority set forth in this order within  . Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to carry out this order.

 . 4. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .
