2d Session
H. RES. 960
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 2, 2022
Mrs. Hinson
(for herself,
Mr. Fleischmann
,
Mr. Rutherford
, and
Mr. Palazzo
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide certain information relating to enforcement and removal operations.
That the Secretary of Homeland Security is directed, to the extent that such information is in the possession of the Secretary, to transmit to the House of Representatives copies of documents, emails, charts, or tables, not later than 14 days after date on which this resolution is agreed to, for fiscal year 2021, which refer or relate to the following:
(1)
Information on custody and case management, including Enforcement and Removal Operations of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement non-detained cases, including—
(A)
the number of aliens enrolled in the Alternatives to Detention program by technology type; and
(B)
the absconder rates for aliens enrolled in the Alternatives to Detention program.
(2)
Information on administrative and criminal arrests, including—
(A)
the number of administrative and criminal arrests by the Enforcement and Removal Operations of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, including the number of individuals arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement with criminal convictions or pending criminal charges, disaggregated by the type of crime based on the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement system of record by the Federal Bureau of Investigation National Crime Information Center offense codes; and
(B)
the number of Enforcement and Removal Operations activities that resulted in criminal arrests and convictions.
(3)
Information on U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainers, including—
(A)
the number of detainers issues by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; and
(B)
the number of individuals subject to detainers with a history of—
(i)
homicide;
(ii)
kidnapping;
(iii)
robberies;
(iv)
assaults;
(v)
sex crimes; and
(vi)
crimes against children.
(4)
Information on removals, including—
(A)
the number of removals conducted by Enforcement and Removal Operations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
(B)
the percentage of individuals removed who had criminal convictions or pending criminal charges;
(C)
the number of air charter removals under section 362 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 265 (commonly known as
title 42 expulsions
)) conducted by the Enforcement and Removal Operations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and
(D)
the number of individuals removed per month.
