2d Session
H. RES. 1251
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 22, 2022
Mr. Stauber
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Of inquiry directing the Secretary of Agriculture to transmit certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to the mineral withdrawal within the Superior National Forest.
That the Secretary of Agriculture is directed to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, copies of any document, memorandum, correspondence, and other communication or any portion of any such communication, that refers or relates to the mineral withdrawal within the Superior National Forest and composition of the Duluth Complex, including the following:
(1)
All documents and communications relating to the minerals found within the Duluth complex, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to the amount of copper or recognized critical minerals found; and
(B)
any reference to minerals needed for infrastructure, renewable energy, or electric vehicle production.
(2)
All documents and communications referring or relating to initiating the mineral withdrawal process within Superior National Forest.
(3)
All documents and communications relating to the impact of the mineral withdrawal on Twin Metals operation, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to preventing production of minerals;
(B)
any reference to union project labor agreements; and
(C)
any reference to the loss of economic benefits at the State and local level.
(4)
All documents and communications relating to the impact of the two-year pause on mineral activity in Superior National Forest while the mineral withdrawal application is considered, including but not limited to—
(A)
any reference to national security implications;
(B)
any reference to mineral supply chain stability implications;
(C)
any reference to increased dependence on foreign minerals; and
(D)
any reference to the economic losses at the State and local level.
(5)
Any meeting or communication that occurred between Secretary Tom Vilsack, or his representative, and environmental advocacy groups referring or relating to the mineral withdrawal application in Superior National Forest.
(6)
All documents and communications referring or related to the U.S. Forest Service’s Environmental Assessment recommending a mineral withdrawal in the Superior National Forest.
