1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting America’s Warriors Act
.
2.
Right of members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense trained in the use of firearms to carry firearms on military installations in the United States
(a)
Elimination of military installation personnel firearm bans
Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, any provision in any law, rule, regulation, or Executive order that prohibits trained military personnel or trained civilian personnel from carrying officially-issued or personally-owned firearms on a military installation in the United States shall have no force or effect with regard to such military personnel. The laws covered by this subsection include section 1585 of title 10, United States Code (relating to carrying of firearms), section 922 of title 18, United States Code (relating to unlawful acts), and part 108.11 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to carrying of weapons).
(b)
Prohibition on reimposition of personnel firearm bans
(1)
Department of defense
The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments shall not reinstate the firearm bans referred to in subsection (a) or enact similar restrictions prohibiting or restricting trained military personnel or trained civilian personnel from carrying officially-issued or personally-owned firearms on a military installation in the United States.
(2)
President
The President shall not take any executive action or promulgate any rule or issue any Executive order or regulation to prohibit or restrict trained military personnel or trained civilian personnel from carrying officially-issued or personally-owned firearms on a military installation in the United States.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term “firearms” means only handguns.
(2)
The term
military installation
means military bases, forts, recruiter stations, Navy ports, Coast Guard stations, armories and other reserve component facilities, military depots, camps, and missile sites.
(3)
The term
trained civilian personnel
means civilian employees of the Department of Defense who are trained in the use and handling of firearms in their day-to-day activities.
(4)
The term
trained military personnel
means members of the Armed Forces who are trained in the use and handling of firearms in their day-to-day activities.
