1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns Act of 2016
.
2.
Extending compliance dates (pending judicial review) of rules addressing national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay products manufacturing or clay ceramics manufacturing
(a)
Extension of compliance dates
(1)
Extension
Each compliance date of any final rule described in subsection (b) is deemed to be extended by the time period equal to the time period described in subsection (c).
(2)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
compliance date
means, with respect to any requirement of a final rule described in subsection (b), the date by which any State, local, or tribal government or other person is first required to comply.
(b)
Final rules described
A final rule described in this subsection is any final rule to address national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for brick and structural clay products manufacturing or clay ceramics manufacturing under section 112 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7412
), including—
(1)
the final rule entitled
NESHAP for Brick and Structural Clay Products Manufacturing; and NESHAP for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing
published at 80 Fed. Reg. 65469 (October 26, 2015);
(2)
the final rule entitled
NESHAP for Brick and Structural Clay Products Manufacturing; and NESHAP for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing: Correction
published at 80 Fed. Reg. 75817 (December 4, 2015); and
(3)
any final rule that succeeds or amends the rule described in paragraph (1) or (2).
(c)
Period described
The time period described in this subsection is the period of days that—
(1)
begins on the date that is 60 days after the day on which notice of promulgation of a final rule described in subsection (b) appears in the Federal Register; and
(2)
ends on the date on which judgment becomes final, and no longer subject to further appeal or review, in all actions (including actions that are filed pursuant to section 307 of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7607
))—
(A)
that are filed during the 60 days described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
that seek review of any aspect of such rule.
