1.
Prohibition of preferential treatment for illegal aliens
(a)
In general
Section 505 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1623
) is amended to read as follows:
505.
Ineligibility for aliens not in lawful immigration status in the United States to receive
preferential postsecondary education benefits
(a)
In general
An alien who is not in a lawful immigration status in the United States shall not be eligible for any postsecondary education benefit unless every citizen and national of the United States is eligible to receive such a benefit (in no less an amount, duration, and scope).
(b)
Enforcement through civil action
(1)
In general
Any citizen or national of the United States who is enrolled at a postsecondary educational institution in the United States that is alleged to have violated subsection (a) may petition the district court of the United States in which such institution is located to enforce the restriction described in such subsection by commencing a civil action, on his or her own behalf, in such court against any State official that oversees such institution.
(2)
Relief
If the plaintiff in a civil action commenced under paragraph (1) proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the postsecondary educational institution in which the plaintiff was enrolled violated subsection (a), the court shall—
(A)
provide all appropriate relief to the plaintiff, including damages equal to the monetary value of any benefit provided to an alien who is not in a lawful immigration status in the United States that was denied to the plaintiff; and
(B)
award attorneys' fees and court costs to the plaintiff.
.
(b)
Table of contents amendment
The table of contents in section 1(d) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 3009–546) is amended by striking the item relating to section 505 and inserting the following:
Sec. 505. Ineligibility for aliens not in lawful immigration status in the United States to receive
preferential postsecondary education benefits.
.
