1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Easy Contract Compliance Enhancement and List Act of 2016
or the
Small Business ECCEL Act
.
2.
Post-award compliance assistance from the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(k)(8)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraphs (15), (16), and (17) as paragraphs (16), (17), and (18), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (14) the following new paragraph:
(15)
shall provide assistance to a small business concern awarded a contract or subcontract under this Act or under title 10 or title 41, United States Code, with finding resources for education and training on compliance with contracting regulations (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of such a contract or subcontract.
.
3.
Post-award compliance assistance under the Mentor-Protege Program of the Department of Defense
Section 831(e)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (
Public Law 101–510
; 104 Stat. 1607;
10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
and
and the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by inserting at the end the following new subparagraph:
(D)
the assistance the mentor firm will provide to the protege firm in understanding contract regulations of the Federal Government and the Department of Defense (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement) after award of a subcontract under this section, if applicable.
.
4.
Post-award compliance resources for small business concerns
Section 15 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(t)
Post-Award compliance resources
The Administrator shall provide to small business development centers (as defined in section 21) and entities participating in the Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program under
chapter 142
of title 10, United States Code, and shall make available on the website of the Administration, a list of resources for small business concerns seeking education and assistance on compliance with contracting regulations (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of a contract or subcontract.
.
5.
Post-award compliance assistance from procurement center representatives
Section 15(l)(2) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 644(l)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J);
(2)
in subparagraph (H), by striking
and
at the end; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following new subparagraph:
(I)
assist small business concerns with finding resources for education and training on compliance with contracting regulations (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of a contract or subcontract; and
.
6.
Post-award compliance assistance under the mentor-protege program of the Small Business
Administration
Section 45(b)(3) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 657r(b)(3)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(K)
The extent to which assistance with compliance with the requirements of contracting with the Federal Government after award of a contract or subcontract under this section.
.
