1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Subsistence Access Management Act of 2015
.
2.
Definition of Secretaries
In this Act, the term
Secretaries
means the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
3.
Redesignation not authorized
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including any regulation, order, or policy, for purposes of administering the Federal Subsistence Management Program on public lands within the State of Alaska pursuant to the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (
16 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.
), with respect to a community or area designated as rural by the Secretaries by regulation effective on or before May 6, 2007, the Secretaries may not, except pursuant to Act of Congress—
(1)
redesignate the community or area as nonrural; or
(2)
adjust the boundaries of a community or area to render some or all of that community or area nonrural.
(b)
Reinstatement of list
(1)
In general
The list of communities and areas designated rural (including the boundaries of those communities and areas) in effect on May 6, 2007, is reinstated.
(2)
Effect
Except as modified by an Act of Congress, with respect to those communities and areas designated as rural, the list described in paragraph (1) shall be in effect as if the final rule entitled
Subsistence Management Regulations for Public Lands in Alaska, Subpart C; Nonrural Determinations
(72 Fed. Reg. 25688 (
May 7, 2007)) had not been issued.
4.
Effect
Nothing in this Act prohibits the Secretaries from determining that, in accordance with regulations duly promulgated by the Secretaries—
(1)
a community or area designated nonrural by the Secretaries should be redesignated as rural; or
(2)
the boundaries of a community or area designated nonrural should be adjusted by the Secretaries to render some or all of that community or area rural.
5.
Publication of interim final rule, list
(a)
Publication of interim final rule
Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall publish an interim final rule amending any regulations inconsistent with this Act.
(b)
Publication of list
Once each year after the publication under subsection (a), the Secretaries shall publish in the Federal Register a list of communities and areas (including the boundaries of those communities and areas) designated rural and nonrural in accordance with this Act.
