1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Conservation Easement Incentive Act of 2015
.
2.
Special rule for contributions of qualified conservation contributions made permanent
(a)
In general
(1)
Individuals
Subparagraph (E) of
section 170(b)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to contributions of qualified conservation contributions) is amended by striking clause (vi).
(2)
Corporations
Subparagraph (B) of section 170(b)(2) of such Code (relating to qualified conservation contributions) is amended by striking clause (iii).
(b)
Contributions of capital gain real property made for conservation purposes by Native Corporations
(1)
In general
Section 170(b)(2) of such Code is amended by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D), and by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Qualified conservation contributions by certain Native Corporations
(i)
In general
Any qualified conservation contribution (as defined in subsection (h)(1)) which—
(I)
is made by a Native Corporation, and
(II)
is a contribution of property which was land conveyed under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
shall be allowed to the extent that the aggregate amount of such contributions does not exceed the
excess of the taxpayer’s taxable income over the amount of charitable
contributions allowable under subparagraph (A).
(ii)
Carryover
If the aggregate amount of contributions described in clause (i) exceeds the limitation of clause (i), such excess shall be treated (in a manner consistent with the rules of subsection (d)(2)) as a charitable contribution to which clause (i) applies in each of the 15 succeeding years in order of time.
(iii)
Native Corporation
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
Native Corporation
has the meaning given such term by section 3(m) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
.
(2)
Conforming amendment
Section 170(b)(2)(A) of such Code is amended by striking
subparagraph (B) applies
and inserting
subparagraph (B) or (C) applies
.
(3)
Valid existing rights preserved
Nothing in this subsection (or any amendment made by this subsection) shall be construed to modify the existing property rights validly conveyed to Native Corporations (within the meaning of section 3(m) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act) under such Act.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to contributions made in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
