1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ronald Reagan Birthplace Historic Site Establishment Act
.
2.
Ronald Reagan birthplace historic site
(a)
Acquisition of property
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall purchase with donated or appropriated funds and from a willing owner only, fee simple, unencumbered title to the Property and to any personal property related to the Property that the Secretary determines to be appropriate for the purposes of this Act.
(b)
Establishment
After the Property is acquired by the Secretary, the Secretary shall designate the Property as the Ronald Reagan Birthplace Historic Site.
(c)
Land description
The Secretary shall ensure that a copy of the land description of the Property is on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
3.
Administration
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall administer the Historic Site in accordance with the provisions of this Act and with laws generally applicable to national historic sites, including—
(1)
applicable provisions of division A of subtitle I of title 54, United States Code; and
(2)
chapter 3201
of title 54, United States Code.
(b)
Shared resources
To the greatest extent practicable, the Secretary shall use the resources of other sites administered by the National Park Service in the State of Illinois.
(c)
Management plan
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the Historic Site.
4.
Definitions:
In this Act:
(1)
Historic site
The term
Historic Site
means the Ronald Reagan Birthplace National Historic Site.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
Property
The term
Property
means the property commonly known as the Reagan Birthplace and Museum located at—
(A)
111–113 Main Street, Tampico, Illinois; and
(B)
the Main Street Historic District which was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 3, 1983 (Ref. # 82002602).
