1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keystone For a Secure Tomorrow Act
.
2.
Finding
The Congress finds that the delivery of oil from Alberta, Canada, to domestic markets in the United
States is in the national interest of the United States, and the earliest
possible completion of the Keystone XL pipeline will best serve the
national interest.
3.
Keystone XL pipeline permit approval
(a)
Permit approval
The permit described in subsection (b) is hereby approved.
(b)
Description of permit
The permit approved under subsection (a) is the permit with respect to certain energy-related
facilities and land transportation crossings on the international
boundaries of the United States for the Keystone XL pipeline project, an
application for which was filed on September 19, 2008 (including
amendments). Such permit shall also include the Nebraska reroute evaluated
in the Final Evaluation Report issued the Nebraska Department of
Environmental Quality in January 2013.
(c)
Requirements
The permit granted under subsection (a) shall require the following:
(1)
The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal and State laws (including regulations) and
all applicable industrial codes regarding the construction, connection,
operation, and maintenance of the United States facilities.
(2)
The permittee shall take all appropriate measures to prevent or mitigate any adverse environmental
impact or disruption of historic properties in connection with the
construction, operation, and maintenance of the United States facilities.
(3)
For the purpose of the permit approved under subsection (a)—
(A)
the final environmental impact statement issued by the Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, and
the Final Evaluation Report described in subsection (b) satisfy all
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.
4321 et seq.) and section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act
(
16 U.S.C. 470f
);
(B)
any modification required by the Secretary of State to the Plan described in paragraph (4)(A) shall
not require supplementation of the final environmental impact statement
described in that paragraph; and
(C)
no further Federal environmental review shall be required.
(4)
The construction, operation, and maintenance of the facilities shall be in all material respects
similar to that described in the application and the Final Evaluation
Report described in subsection (b) and in accordance with—
(A)
the construction, mitigation, and reclamation measures agreed to by the permittee in the
Construction Mitigation and Reclamation Plan found in appendix B of the
final environmental impact statement issued by the Secretary of State on
August 26, 2011;
(B)
the special conditions agreed to between the permittee and the Administrator of the Pipeline
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the Department of
Transportation found in appendix U of the final environmental impact
statement described in subparagraph (A); and
(C)
the stipulations identified in appendix S of the final environmental impact statement described in
subparagraph (A).
(5)
Other requirements that are standard industry practice or commonly included in Federal permits that
are similar to a permit approved under subsection (a).
(d)
Private property savings clause
Nothing in this section alters the Federal, State, or local processes or conditions in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act that are necessary to secure access from
private property owners to construct the Keystone XL pipeline.
