1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Firearm Rights Equally Enforced Act
or the
FREE Act
.
2.
Nationwide effect given to least restrictive State laws regarding the carrying of firearms that are concealed, or are partially or fully visible to the public
(a)
In general
Chapter 44
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 926C
the following:
926D.
Nationwide effect given to least restrictive State laws regarding the carrying of firearms that are
concealed, or are partially or fully visible to the public
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any provision of the law of any State or any political subdivision of a State, an individual who is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm and to whom a State has issued a license or permit to carry a concealed firearm, or to carry a firearm that is partially or fully visible to the public, may do so in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce in any other State, subject to subsection (b).
(b)
Limitations
(1)
General rule
A person may exercise the right granted by subsection (a) subject to any limitation imposed by the State that issued the license or permit, except as provided in paragraph (2) or (3).
(2)
Authority to impose lesser restrictive limitations
A State may impose a lesser restrictive limitation on the exercise of the right granted by subsection (a) than any imposed by the State referred to in paragraph (1).
(3)
Special rule relating to fees
In addition to the authority provided by paragraph (2), a State may condition the exercise of the right granted by subsection (a) on the payment of a fee, the level of which may be greater than the level of the fee (if any) imposed by the State referred to in paragraph (1) as a condition of issuing the license or permit, but any such fee may not be set at a level that unduly burdens the exercise of the right.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 926C the following:
926D. Nationwide effect given to least restrictive State laws regarding the carrying of firearms
that are concealed, or are partially or fully visible to the public.
.
