1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act of 2016
.
2.
Exercise on terrorist and foreign fighter travel
(a)
In general
In addition to, or as part of exercise programs currently carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, to enhance domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism, promote the dissemination of homeland security information, and test the security posture of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through appropriate offices and components of the Department and in coordination with the relevant Federal departments and agencies, shall, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, develop and conduct an exercise related to the terrorist and foreign fighter threat.
(b)
Exercise requirements
The exercise required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
a scenario involving—
(A)
persons traveling from the United States to join or provide material support or resources to a terrorist organization abroad; and
(B)
terrorist infiltration into the United States, including United States citizens and foreign nationals; and
(2)
coordination with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, foreign governments, and State, local, tribal, territorial, and private sector stakeholders.
(c)
Report
Not later than 60 days after the completion of the exercise required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, consistent with the protection of classified information, submit an after-action report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate presenting the initial findings of such exercise, including any identified or potential vulnerabilities in United States defenses and any legislative changes requested in light of the findings. The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Prohibition on additional funding
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section. This section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated or made available to the Department of Homeland Security.
(e)
Definition
In this section, the term
material support or resources
has the meaning given such term in section 2339A of title 18, United States Code.
