1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Main Street Growth Act
.
2.
Venture exchanges
(a)
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78f
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(m)
Venture exchange
(1)
Registration
(A)
In general
A national securities exchange may elect to be treated (or for a listing tier of such exchange to be treated) as a venture exchange by notifying the Commission of such election, either at the time the exchange applies to be registered as a national securities exchange or after registering as a national securities exchange.
(B)
Determination time period
With respect to a securities exchange electing to be treated (or for a listing tier of such exchange to be treated) as a venture exchange at the time the exchange applies to be registered as a national securities exchange, such application shall be deemed to have been approved by the Commission unless the Commission denies such application before the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date the Commission received such application.
(2)
Powers and restrictions
A venture exchange—
(A)
may only constitute, maintain, or provide a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of venture securities;
(B)
may determine the increment to be used for quoting and trading venture securities on the exchange;
(C)
shall disseminate last sale and quotation information on terms that are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory;
(D)
may choose to carry out periodic auctions for the sale of a venture security instead of providing continuous trading of the venture security; and
(E)
may not extend unlisted trading privileges to any venture security.
(3)
Exemptions from certain national security exchange regulations
A venture exchange shall not be required to—
(A)
comply with Rule NMS (sections 242.600 through 242.612 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations);
(B)
comply with Rule ATS (sections 242.300 through 242.303 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations);
(C)
submit any data to a securities information processor; or
(D)
use decimal pricing.
(4)
Definitions
For purposes of this subsection:
(A)
Early-stage, growth company
(i)
In general
The term
early-stage, growth company
means an issuer—
(I)
that has not made an initial public offering of any securities of the issuer; and
(II)
with a market capitalization of $1,000,000,000 or less.
(ii)
Treatment when market capitalization exceeds threshold
In the case of an issuer that is an early-stage, growth company the securities of which are traded on a venture exchange, such issuer shall not cease to be an early-stage, growth company by reason of the market capitalization of such issuer exceeding the threshold specified in clause (i)(II) until the end of the period of 12 consecutive months during which the market capitalization of such issuer exceeds $1,500,000,000.
(B)
Venture security
The term
venture security
means—
(i)
securities of an early-stage, growth company that are exempt from registration pursuant to section 3(b) of the Securities Act of 1933; and
(ii)
securities of an emerging growth company.
.
(b)
Securities Act of 1933
Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (
15 U.S.C. 77r(b)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
or
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(D)
a venture security, as defined under section 6(m)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
.
(c)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that the Securities and Exchange Commission should—
(1)
when necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors, make use of the Commission’s general exemptive authority under section 36 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78mm
) with respect to the provisions added by this section; and
(2)
if the Commission determines appropriate, create an Office of Venture Exchanges within the Commission’s Division of Trading and Markets.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to impair or limit the construction of the antifraud provisions of the securities laws (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78c(a)
)) or the authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission under those provisions.
(e)
Effective date for tiers of existing national securities exchanges
In the case of a securities exchange that is registered as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78f
) on the date of the enactment of this Act, any election for a listing tier of such exchange to be treated as a venture exchange under subsection (m) of such section shall not take effect before the date that is 180 days after such date of enactment.
