1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Families Flying Together Act of 2015
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Airlines need to prioritize seating families traveling with small children together.
(2)
The Department of Transportation continues to receive
unsatisfactory seat assignment
complaints from parents whose seat assignments were separate from their small children.
3.
Seating families together on flights
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue regulations directing each air carrier to—
(1)
establish a policy to ensure, to the extent practicable, that a family that purchases tickets for a flight with that air carrier is seated together during that flight; and
(2)
make the policy described in paragraph (1) available to the public on an appropriate Internet Web site of the air carrier.
(b)
Definitions
In this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Air carrier
The term
air carrier
has the meaning given that term in section 40102(a) of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Family
The term
family
means a grouping of individuals that includes, at a minimum—
(A)
a child who is 12 years of age or younger; and
(B)
an individual who is—
(i)
18 years of age or older; and
(ii)
responsible for accompanying that child, including a parent or legal guardian of that child.
4.
Families traveling together
Section 41712 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Families traveling together
(1)
In general
It shall be an unfair or deceptive practice under subsection (a) for any ticket agent, air carrier, foreign air carrier, or other person offering to sell tickets for air transportation to fail to disclose, whether verbally in oral communication or in writing in written or electronic communication, prior to an individual’s purchase of more than one ticket for a covered flight, the notification in paragraph (2), if such purchase includes a ticket for a minor.
(2)
Notification
The notification required under paragraph (1) shall include the following statement:
It is not possible to assign 2 or more seats together on at least 1 of the flights you have selected. Please be advised that you may not be able to sit next to other members of your travel party, even if you are traveling with a minor.
.
(3)
Covered flight
For purposes of this section, a
covered flight
is a flight of an air carrier or foreign air carrier in air transportation or foreign air transportation as to which—
(A)
a purchaser of a ticket may specify an advance seat assignment, with or without the assessment of any charge or fee; and
(B)
2 or more laterally adjacent seats are not available on the flight for advance assignment.
.
