1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Flexibility in Family Sentencing Act of 2016
.
2.
Diversion to treat maternal drug abuse in a family-centered medical context
(a)
In general
Chapter 229
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 3607
the following:
3607A.
Diversion to treat maternal drug abuse in a family-centered medical context
(a)
Pre-Judgment probation
If a person described in subsection (e) is found guilty of an offense for which the maximum term of imprisonment is not more than 5 years, the court may, with the consent of such person, place such person on probation for a term of not more than two years without entering a judgment of conviction.
(b)
Conditions of probation
A term of probation under this section shall include a requirement that the person—
(1)
participate in a drug treatment program approved by the court; and
(2)
receive periodic evaluations by a medical professional.
(c)
Dismissal of proceedings
At any time before the expiration of the term of probation, but, in the case of a person who is pregnant, not during the course of the person’s pregnancy, if the person has not violated a condition of her probation, the court may, without entering a judgment of conviction, dismiss the proceedings against the person and discharge her from probation. At the expiration of the term of probation, if the person has not violated a condition of her probation, the court shall, without entering a judgment of conviction, dismiss the proceedings against the person and discharge her from probation.
(d)
Revocation of probation
If the person violates a condition of her probation, the court shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of section 3565.
(e)
Person described
A person who is described in this subsection is a person who—
(1)
is found guilty of an offense described in subsection (a) during pregnancy or the postpartum period; and
(2)
is an addict (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
)).
(f)
Definition
The term
postpartum period
means the period ending 180 days after giving birth.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for
chapter 229
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 3607
the following:
3607A. Diversion to treat maternal drug abuse in a family-centered medical context.
.
