1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Capacity for Health Outcomes Act of 2019
or the
ECHO 2019 Act
.
2.
Expanding capacity for health outcomes
Title III of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 399I (
42 U.S.C. 280f–1
) the following:
399I-1.
Expanding capacity for health outcomes
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means an entity providing health care services in rural areas, frontier areas, health professional shortage areas, or medically underserved areas, or to medically underserved populations or Native Americans, including Indian tribes or tribal organizations.
(2)
Health professional shortage area
The term
health professional shortage area
means a health professional shortage area designated under section 332.
(3)
Indian tribes and tribal organizations
The terms
Indian tribes
and
tribal organizations
have the meaning given such terms in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
(4)
Medically underserved population
The term
medically underserved population
has the meaning given the term in section 330(b)(3).
(5)
Native Americans
The term
Native Americans
has the meaning given the term in section 736 and includes Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
(6)
Technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building model
The term
technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building model
means a distance health education model that connects specialists with multiple other health care professionals through simultaneous interactive videoconferencing for the purpose of facilitating case-based learning, disseminating best practices, and evaluating outcomes.
(b)
Program established
The Secretary shall, as appropriate, award grants to evaluate, develop, and, as appropriate, expand the use of technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models, to increase access to health care services, such as those to address chronic diseases and conditions, mental health, substance use disorders, prenatal and maternal health, pediatric care, pain management, palliative care, and other specialty care in medically underserved areas and for medically underserved populations.
(c)
Use of funds
Grants awarded under subsection (b) shall, as appropriate, be used for—
(1)
equipment to support the use and expansion of technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models, including for hardware and software that enables distance learning, health care provider support, and the secure exchange of electronic health information;
(2)
support for health care providers and other professionals that provide or assist in the provision of services through such models;
(3)
the development and acquisition of instructional programming, and the training of health care providers and other professionals that provide or assist in the provision of services through such models;
(4)
information collection and evaluation activities to study the impact of such models on patient outcomes and health care providers, and to identify best practices for the expansion and use of such models; and
(5)
other activities consistent with achieving the objectives of the grants awarded under this section, as determined by the Secretary.
(d)
Length of grants
Grants awarded under subsection (b) shall be for a period of up to 5 years.
(e)
Application
An eligible entity that seeks to receive a grant under subsection (b) shall submit to the Secretary an application, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. Such application criteria shall include an evaluation of patient outcomes and health care providers resulting from technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models.
(f)
Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide (either directly through the Department of Health and Human Services or by contract) technical assistance to eligible entities, including recipients of grants under subsection (b), on the development, use, and evaluation of technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models in order to expand access to health care services provided by such entities, including for medically underserved areas and to medically underserved populations.
(g)
Report by Secretary
Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and post on the internet website of the Department of Health and Human Services, a report including, at minimum—
(1)
a description of any new and continuing grants awarded to entities under subsection (b) and the specific purpose and amounts of such grants;
(2)
an overview of—
(A)
the evaluations conducted under subsections (b) or (f); and
(B)
technical assistance provided under subsection (f); and
(3)
a description of any significant findings or developments in patient outcomes and health care providers and best practices for eligible entities expanding, using, or evaluating technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building models.
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
.
