1.
Short
title
This Act may be cited as the
Recognizing Achievement in Classified School Employees Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Classified school employees provide valuable service in the United States.
(2)
Classified school employees provide essential services, such as transportation, facilities maintenance and operations, food service, safety, and health care.
(3)
Classified school employees play a vital role in providing for the welfare and safety of students.
(4)
Classified school employees strive for excellence in all areas of service to the education community.
(5)
Exemplary classified school employees should be recognized for their outstanding contributions to quality education in the United States.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Classified school employee
The term
classified school employee
means an employee of a State or of any political subdivision of a State, or an employee of a nonprofit entity, who works in any grade from prekindergarten through high school in any of the following occupational specialties:
(A)
Paraprofessional, including pa­ra­ed­u­ca­tor services.
(B)
Clerical and administrative services.
(C)
Transportation services.
(D)
Food and nutrition services.
(E)
Custodial and maintenance services.
(F)
Security services.
(G)
Health and student services.
(H)
Technical services.
(I)
Skilled trades.
(2)
Other
definitions
The terms used in this Act have the meaning given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
4.
Recognition
program established
(a)
In
general
The Secretary of Education shall establish a national recognition program to be known as the
Recognizing Inspirational School Employees (RISE) Award Program
. The purpose of the award program shall be to recognize and promote the commitment and excellence exhibited by classified school employees who provide exemplary service to students in prekindergarten through high school.
(b)
Award
Prior to May 31 of each year (beginning with the second calendar year that begins after the date of enactment of this Act), the Secretary shall select a classified school employee to receive the Recognizing Inspirational School Employees (RISE) Award for the year.
(c)
Nonmonetary value
The award and recognition provided under this Act shall have no monetary value.
(d)
Selection process
(1)
Nomination process
(A)
In general
Not later than November 1 of each year (beginning with the first calendar year that begins after the date of enactment of this Act), the Secretary shall solicit nominations of classified school employees from the occupational specialties described in section 3(1) from the Governor of each State.
(B)
Nomination
submissions
In order for individuals in a State to be eligible to receive recognition under this section, the Governor shall consider nominations submitted by the following:
(i)
Local educational agencies.
(ii)
School administrators.
(iii)
Professional associations.
(iv)
Labor organizations.
(v)
Educational service agencies.
(vi)
Nonprofit entities.
(vii)
Parents and students.
(viii)
Any other group determined appropriate by the Recognizing Inspirational School Employees (RISE) Award Program.
(2)
Demonstration
Each Governor of a State who desires individuals in the State to receive recognition under this section shall submit the nominations described in paragraph (1) to the Secretary in such manner as may be required by the Secretary. Each such nomination shall contain, at a minimum, demonstrations of excellence in the following areas:
(A)
Work performance.
(B)
School and community involvement.
(C)
Leadership and commitment.
(D)
Local support.
(E)
Enhancement of classified school employees' image in the community and schools.
(3)
Selection
The Secretary shall develop uniform national guidelines for evaluating nominations submitted under paragraph (2) in order to select the most deserving nominees based on the demonstrations made in the areas described in such paragraph.
