1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Virginia Wilderness Additions Act of 2019
.
2.
Additions to Rough Mountain and Rich Hole Wildernesses
Section 1 of
Public Law 100–326
(
16 U.S.C. 1132
note; 102 Stat. 584; 114 Stat. 2057; 123 Stat. 1002) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(21)
Rough Mountain Addition
Certain land in the George Washington National Forest comprising approximately 1,000 acres, as generally depicted as the
Rough Mountain Addition
on the map entitled
GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL FOREST – South half – Alternative I – Selected Alternative Management Prescriptions – Land and Resources Management Plan Final Environmental Impact Statement
and dated March 4, 2014, which is incorporated in the Rough Mountain Wilderness Area designated by paragraph (1).
(22)
Rich Hole Addition
(A)
Designation
Certain land in the George Washington National Forest comprising approximately 4,600 acres, as generally depicted as the
Rich Hole Addition
on the map entitled
GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL FOREST – South half – Alternative I – Selected Alternative Management Prescriptions – Land and Resources Management Plan Final Environmental Impact Statement
and dated March 4, 2014, which shall be incorporated in the Rich Hole Wilderness Area designated by paragraph (2) on the earlier of—
(i)
the date on which the Secretary of Agriculture publishes in the Federal Register notice that the activities permitted under subparagraph (C) have been completed; and
(ii)
the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of the
Virginia Wilderness Additions Act of 2019
.
(B)
Management
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall manage the wilderness area designated under subparagraph (A) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (
16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.).
(C)
Water quality improvement activities
(i)
In general
To enhance natural ecosystems within the Rich Hole Addition by implementing certain activities to improve water quality and aquatic passage, as described in the Forest Service document entitled
Decision Notice for the Lower Cowpasture Restoration and Management Project
and dated December 2015, the Secretary of Agriculture may use motorized equipment and mechanized transport in the Rich Hole Addition under subparagraph (A) until the date on which the Rich Hole Addition is incorporated into the Rich Hole Wilderness under that subparagraph.
(ii)
Requirement
In carrying out clause (i), the Secretary of Agriculture, to the maximum extent practicable, shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to carry out that clause with the least amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
.
