1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
JROTC Cyber Training Act
.
2.
JROTC computer science and cybersecurity program
(a)
Program required
(1)
In general
Chapter 102
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2036.
Computer science and cybersecurity program
(a)
Requirement
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a program to enhance the preparation of students in the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps for careers in computer science and cybersecurity.
(b)
Coordination
In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall coordinate with the following:
(1)
The Secretaries of the military departments.
(2)
The Secretary of Education.
(3)
The National Science Foundation.
(4)
The heads of such other Federal, State, and local government entities the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
(5)
Private sector organizations the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
(c)
Activities
Activities under the program may include the following:
(1)
Establishment of targeted internships and cooperative research opportunities in computer science and cybersecurity at defense laboratories and other technical centers for students in and instructors of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
(2)
Funding for training and other supports for instructors to teach evidence-based courses in computer science and cybersecurity to students.
(3)
Efforts and activities that improve the quality of cybersecurity and computer science educational, training opportunities, and curricula for students and instructors.
(4)
Development of travel opportunities, demonstrations, mentoring programs, and informal computer science and cybersecurity education for students and instructors.
(d)
Metrics
The Secretary shall establish outcome-based metrics and internal and external assessments to evaluate the merits and benefits of activities conducted under the program with respect to the needs of the Department of Defense.
(e)
Authorities
In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make use of the authorities under chapter 111 and sections 2601, 2605, and 2374a of this title, section 219 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (
Public Law 110–417
;
10 U.S.C. 2358
note), and other authorities the Secretary determines appropriate.
.
(2)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 102 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
2036. Computer science and cybersecurity program.
.
(b)
Report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on activities carried out under the program on computer science and cybersecurity for the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps required by section 2036 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)).
