1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FinCEN Improvement Act of 2019
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The mission of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (referred to in this Act as
FinCEN
) is to safeguard the financial system from illicit use, combat money laundering, and promote national security through the collection, analysis, and dissemination of financial intelligence and strategic use of financial authorities.
(2)
In its mission to safeguard the financial system from the abuses of financial crime, including terrorist financing, money laundering, and other illicit activity, the United States should prioritize working with partners in Federal, State, local, Tribal, and foreign law enforcement authorities.
(3)
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has stated that, since the terror attacks on September 11, 2001,
The threat landscape has expanded considerably, though it is important to note that the more traditional threat posed by al Qaeda and its affiliates is still present and active. The threat of domestic terrorism also remains persistent overall, with actors crossing the line from First Amendment protected rights to committing crimes to further their political agenda.
.
(4)
Although the use and trading of virtual currencies are legal practices, some terrorists and criminals, including international criminal organizations, seek to exploit vulnerabilities in the global financial system and are increasingly using emerging payment methods such as virtual currencies to move illicit funds.
(5)
In carrying out its mission, FinCEN should prioritize all forms of terrorism and emerging methods of terrorism and illicit finance.
3.
Strengthening FinCEN
Section 310(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (C)—
(A)
in clause (i), by inserting
Tribal,
after
local,
; and
(B)
in clause (vi), by striking
international
;
(2)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
local,
and inserting
local, Tribal,
;
(3)
in subparagraph (F), by striking
Federal, State, local, and foreign law enforcement
and inserting
Federal, State, local, Tribal, and foreign law enforcement
; and
(4)
in subparagraph (H), by inserting
, including matters involving emerging technologies or value that substitutes for currency
after
initiatives
.
