1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Veterans Affairs Committal Service Shelter Act of 2019
.
2.
Sense of Congress; findings; purpose
(a)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
a committal service shelter should be a quiet, dignified shelter that provides protection from the wind, rain, and sun for an internment service in a solemn manner; and
(2)
such shelters should provide comfort for grieving families in all weather, especially during the heat of summer, middle of winter, and all types of storms.
(b)
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
As of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, the Department of Veterans Affairs does not provide funding for construction of enclosed committal service shelters under the Veterans Cometary Grants Program.
(2)
As of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, highly rural communities have few options for protection from inclement weather during funerals for veterans and open shelters hardly shield family and loved ones from extreme weather.
(3)
As of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, States with only one State veterans' cemetery funded by the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program have few options with respect to committal service shelters.
(c)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to authorize the use of grant amounts awarded under the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program for construction of fully enclosed committal shelters in certain State veterans' cemeteries.
3.
Construction of fully enclosed committal service shelters in State veterans' cemeteries
Section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
A grant awarded under subsection (a)(1)(A) may be used for construction of a fully enclosed committal service shelter in a veterans' cemetery owned by a State that—
(1)
has one or fewer veterans' cemeteries that are federally funded; and
(2)
has one or fewer national cemeteries under the control of the National Cemetery Administration with space available to accommodate casketed or cremated remains.
.
