1.
Grant program for cemetery research and the production of educational materials for the Veterans
Legacy Program of the National Cemetery Administration
(a)
Grant program authorized
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may establish a grant program to conduct cemetery research and produce educational materials for the Veterans Legacy Program.
(2)
Eligible recipients
The Secretary may award a grant under this section to any of the following recipients:
(A)
An institution of higher learning.
(B)
A local educational agency.
(C)
A nonprofit entity that the Secretary determines has a demonstrated history of community engagement.
(D)
Such other recipient as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(3)
Use of funds
The recipient of a grant under this section may use the grant amount for the following purposes:
(A)
To conduct research relating to national, State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
(B)
To produce educational materials for the purpose of teaching about the histories of veterans interred in national, State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
(C)
To promote community engagement with the histories of veterans interred in national, State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
(4)
Maximum grant amount
The amount of a grant awarded under this section may not exceed $500,000.
(b)
Regulations
If the Secretary establishes a grant program under this section, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations regarding—
(1)
the evaluation of applications for grants under the program; and
(2)
administration of the program.
(c)
Report required
Not later than 2 years after the date on which the Secretary establishes a grant program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the determination of the Secretary as to whether the grant program is a financially effective means to promote the purposes under subsection (a)(3).
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Institution of higher learning
The term
institution of higher learning
has the meaning given that term in section 3452(f) of title 38, United States Code.
(2)
Local educational agency
The term
local educational agency
has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
Veterans Legacy Program
The term
Veterans Legacy Program
means the program of the National Cemetery Administration that is responsible for providing engagement and educational tools and opportunities for the public regarding the service and sacrifice of veterans interred in national, State, and Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
