1.
Establishment
of White Sands National Park
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Monument
The term
Monument
means the White Sands National Monument, New Mexico, established by Presidential Proclamation No. 2025 (
54 U.S.C. 320301
note), dated January 18, 1933, and administered by the Secretary.
(2)
Park
The term
Park
means the White Sands National Park established by subsection (b).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(b)
Establishment
To protect, preserve, and restore its scenic, scientific, educational, natural, geological, historical, cultural, archaeological, paleontological, hydrological, fish, wildlife, and recreational values and to enhance visitor experiences, there is established in the State of New Mexico the White Sands National Park as a unit of the National Park System.
(c)
Abolishment of White Sands National Monument
(1)
Abolishment
Due to the establishment of the Park, the Monument is abolished.
(2)
Incorporation
The land and interests in land that comprise the Monument are incorporated in, and shall be considered to be part of, the Park.
(d)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the
White Sands National Monument
shall be considered to be a reference to the
White Sands National Park
.
(e)
Availability of
funds
Any funds available for the Monument shall be available for the Park.
(f)
Administration
The Secretary shall administer the Park in accordance with—
(1)
this section; and
(2)
the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including section 100101(a), chapter 1003, sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101, and
chapter 3201
of title 54, United States Code.
(g)
World Heritage List nomination
(1)
County concurrence
The Secretary shall not submit a nomination for the Park to be included on the World Heritage List of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization unless each county in which the Park is located concurs in the nomination.
(2)
Army notification
Before submitting a nomination for the Park to be included on the World Heritage List of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Secretary shall notify the Secretary of the Army of the intent of the Secretary to nominate the Park.
(h)
Effect
Nothing in this section affects—
(1)
valid existing rights (including water rights);
(2)
permits or contracts issued by the Monument;
(3)
existing agreements, including agreements with the Department of Defense;
(4)
the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense regarding the restricted airspace above the Park; or
(5)
the airshed classification of the Park under the
Clean Air Act
(
42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.).
