1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Health Care Options for All Act
.
2.
Access to coverage for individuals in areas without any available Exchange plans
Part 2 of subtitle D of title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 18031
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
1314.
Access to coverage for individuals in areas without any available Exchange plans
(a)
In general
(1)
Coverage through DC SHOP Exchange
Not later than 3 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall establish a mechanism to ensure that, for any plan year beginning on or after the date described in subsection (c), any individual described in paragraph (2) may enroll in health insurance coverage in the small group market through the Exchange operating in the District of Columbia, including the health insurance coverage that is available to Members of Congress and congressional staff (as defined in section 1312(d)(3)(D)).
(2)
Individual described
An individual described in this paragraph is any individual who—
(A)
is eligible to purchase health insurance coverage through the Exchange operating in the State of residence of the individual; and
(B)
resides in a rating area or county in which the Secretary certifies that no qualified health plan is offered through an Exchange established under this title.
(b)
Premium assistance tax credits and cost-Sharing
Any individual described in subsection (a)(2) who enrolls in health insurance coverage through the Exchange operating in the District of Columbia pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be eligible for any premium tax credit under
section 36B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or reduced cost-sharing under section 1402, that the individual would otherwise be eligible for if enrolling in health insurance coverage in the individual market through the Exchange operating in the State of the individual.
(c)
Date described
The date described in this subsection is the date on which the Secretary establishes the mechanism under subsection (a)(1).
.
