1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Caring Recovery for Infants and Babies Act
or the
CRIB Act
.
2.
Medicaid State plan option to enter into provider agreements with residential pediatric recovery centers
(a)
State plan amendment
Section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (82), by striking
and
after the semicolon;
(2)
in paragraph (83), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (83), the following new paragraph:
(84)
provide, at the option of the State, for making medical assistance available on an inpatient or outpatient basis at a residential pediatric recovery center (as defined in subsection (nn)) to infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome.
.
(b)
Residential pediatric recovery center defined
Section 1902 of such Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396a
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(nn)
Residential pediatric recovery center defined
(1)
In general
For purposes of section 1902(a)(84), the term
residential pediatric recovery center
means a center or facility that furnishes items and services for which medical assistance is available under the State plan to infants with the diagnosis of neonatal abstinence syndrome without any other significant medical risk factors.
(2)
Counseling and services
A residential pediatric recovery center may offer counseling and other services to mothers (and other appropriate family members and caretakers) of infants receiving treatment at such centers if such services are otherwise covered under the State plan under this title or under a waiver of such plan. Such other services may include the following:
(A)
Counseling or referrals for services.
(B)
Activities to encourage caregiver-infant bonding.
(C)
Training on caring for such infants.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and shall apply to medical assistance furnished on or after that date, without regard to final regulations to carry out such amendments being promulgated as of such date.
