1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Addiction Treatment Quality Improvement Act of 2018
.
2.
Improving quality measurement and development related to the treatment of opioid and substance use
disorders
(a)
In general
Section 1890A of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395aaa–1
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
Strategic framework for quality measure development and implementation related to the treatment of
opioid and substance use disorders
(1)
Assessment
Not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall conduct an assessment of the current state of quality measures and measure concepts in the area of opioid and substance use disorders. Such assessment shall also include an analysis to identify top-priority considerations for measurement in the areas of opioid and substance use disorders and gaps in areas of such measures.
(2)
Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to Congress the results of the assessment conducted under paragraph (1), together with recommendations the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3)
Measure development plan
(A)
Development of a plan
The Secretary shall develop a measure development plan to address the gaps, measure concepts, and identified measure domains stemming from the recommendations in the report under paragraph (2).
(B)
Plan to be made publicly available
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall make the plan developed under subparagraph (A) publicly available.
(4)
Contract
The Secretary may enter into a contract, or as necessary amend the contract, with the entity with a contract under section 1890(a) to conduct the assessment under paragraph (1) and submit the report under paragraph (2), which may be included in an annual report submitted under section 1890(b)(5) before the deadline under such paragraph (2) and which shall also be submitted to the Secretary if not included in such annual report.
.
(b)
Funding
Section 1890(d)(2) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(d)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in the first sentence, by striking
and (f)
and inserting
, (f), and (g)(3)
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
Amounts transferred under this paragraph for purposes of carrying out section 1890A(g) (other than paragraph (3)) shall only be for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2020 and may not exceed a total of $1,500,000.
.
3.
Facilitation of increased coordination and alignment between the public and private sector with
respect to quality and efficiency measures
(a)
In general
Section 1890(b) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(b)
) is amended by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
(4)
Facilitation of increased coordination and alignment between the public and private sector with
respect to quality and efficiency measures
(A)
In general
The entity shall facilitate increased coordination and alignment between the public and private sector with respect to quality and efficiency measures.
(B)
Annual reports
The entity shall prepare and make available to the public its findings under this paragraph in its annual report. Such public availability shall include posting each report on the Internet website of the entity
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
