1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Community Care Core Competency Act of 2017
.
2.
Department of Veterans Affairs continuing education program for certain non-Department medical professionals
(a)
Establishment of program
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a program to provide continuing medical education material to non-Department medical professionals with the goal of—
(A)
increasing knowledge and recognition of medical conditions common to veterans; and
(B)
improving outreach to veterans and family members of veterans.
(2)
Education
provided
The program shall include education on the following:
(A)
Dealing with patients who are veterans or family members of veterans.
(B)
Identifying and treating common mental and physical conditions of veterans and family members of veterans.
(C)
The health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(D)
Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(b)
Duration of program
The program shall be carried out during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Material provided
The continuing medical education material provided to non-Department medical professionals under the program shall be the same material provided to medical professionals of the Department to ensure that all medical professionals treating veterans have access to the same materials, which supports core competencies throughout the community.
(d)
Administration
of program
(1)
In
general
The Secretary shall administer the program to participating non-Department medical professionals through an Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2)
Curriculum and
credit provided
The Secretary shall determine the curriculum of the program and the number of hours of credit to provide to participating non-Department medical professionals for continuing medical education.
(3)
Accreditation
The Secretary shall ensure that the program is accredited in as many States as practicable.
(4)
Consistency
with existing rules
The Secretary shall ensure that the program is consistent with the rules and regulations of the following:
(A)
The medical licensing agency of each State in which the program is accredited.
(B)
Such medical credentialing organizations as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(5)
User
cost
The Secretary shall carry out the program at no cost to participating non-Department medical professionals.
(e)
Non-Department medical
professional defined
In this section, the term
non-Department medical professional
means any individual who is licensed by an appropriate medical authority in the United States and in good standing, is not an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and provides care to veterans or family members of veterans under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
