1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
LGBT Data Inclusion Act
.
2.
Requirement to collect data on sexual orientation and gender identity
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Demographic data
The term
demographic data
means information about the race or ethnicity, sex, and age of a survey participant or population.
(3)
Gender identity
The term
gender identity
means an individual’s sense of being male, female, transgender, or another gender, as distinct from the individual’s sex assigned at birth.
(4)
Sexual orientation
The term
sexual orientation
means how a person identifies in terms of their emotional, romantic, or sexual attractions, and includes identification as straight, heterosexual, gay, lesbian, or bisexual, among other terms.
(5)
Survey
The term
survey
means a data collection activity involving observation or questionnaires for a sample of a population and includes the decennial census.
(b)
Survey requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, each agency that collects information through a survey that includes demographic data where subjects self-report information or a knowledgeable proxy provides information about the subject or responds for all persons in a household shall establish data standards that require, with regard to such a survey, the following:
(1)
Review
The review of existing data sets to determine in which data sets information about sexual orientation and gender identity is not included.
(2)
Methods
An identification of appropriate methods to include questions on sexual orientation and gender identity in surveys that facilitate categorization, voluntary participation, and preserve privacy and confidentiality.
(3)
Data collection
The use of the appropriate methods identified in paragraph (2) to gather data on sexual orientation and gender identity.
(4)
Assessment
The implementation of a process to routinely assess needed changes in survey methods related to asking questions on sexual orientation and gender identity.
(c)
Data reports
Where appropriate, any report published by an agency that relies on survey demographic data shall include information on sexual orientation and gender identity.
(d)
Confidentiality
Any information collected relating to the sexual orientation or gender identity of a survey participant shall be maintained in accordance with the confidentiality and privacy standards and policies for the protection of individuals applicable to that survey.
(e)
Applicability
(1)
Rules of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed—
(A)
to require an individual to disclose their sexual orientation or gender identity to an agency; or
(B)
to permit the use of information collected under this section in a manner that would adversely affect any individual.
(2)
Exemption from penalty
An individual shall not be subject to any fine or other penalty for refusing to answer, or providing a false answer to, any survey question regarding gender identity or sexual orientation, including any fine or penalty under subchapter II of
chapter 7
of title 13, United States Code.
