Executive Order  —Providing for Coordination With Respect to Outdoor Recreation Resources and Establishing the Recreation Advisory Council
 
 

WHEREAS it is necessary, through the conservation and wise use of resources, to preserve, develop, and make accessible to all our people outdoor recreation of such quantity and quality as will make possible the individual enjoyment of, and will assure the physical, cultural, and spiritual benefits of, such recreation; and

WHEREAS   has major nationwide responsibilities with respect, to outdoor recreation resources; and

WHEREAS it is necessary to improve the effectiveness of Federal participation in the field of outdoor recreation; and

WHEREAS a new   has recently been established in  ; and

WHEREAS improvements in the development of national outdoor recreation policies and the carrying out of national outdoor recreation programs will be facilitated by the provision of more adequate inter-agency consultation and advice:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is Ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Recreation Advisory Council.

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , and  . The chairmanship of the   shall rotate among these officials in the order named and for terms of   each. Each of the foregoing officers may appoint a delegate to represent him in   activity. When matters affecting the interests of Federal agencies (including, as used in this order, executive departments and other executive agencies) the heads of which are not members of the   are to be considered by the  , the chairman of the   shall invite such heads to participate in the deliberations of the  .

(b) The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the other members of the  , shall be responsible for developing methods and procedures for improved interagency coordination in the development and carrying out of national outdoor recreation policies and programs.

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall provide broad policy advice to the heads of Federal agencies on all important matters affecting outdoor recreation resources and shall facilitate coordinated efforts among the various Federal agencies.

(b) As far as may be practical, the  , in carrying out the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, shall include advice to the   agencies concerned with respect to the following aspects of outdoor recreation resources: (1) the protection and appropriate management of scenic areas, natural wonders, primitive areas, historic sites, and recreation areas of national significance, (2) the management of   lands for the broadest possible recreation benefit consistent with other essential uses, (3) the management and improvement of fish and wildlife resources for recreational purposes, (4) cooperation with and assistance to the   and local governments, (5) interstate arrangements, including Federal participation where authorized and necessary, and (6) vigorous and cooperative leadership in a nationwide recreation effort.

 . 3.

Construction.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

  4.

  and cooperation.

(a) The   agencies headed by the officers composing the   shall furnish necessary assistance to the   in consonance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Star. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

(b) In respect of duties of the   and of the chairman of the  , respectively, under this order, and insofar as practical, all   agencies shall upon request furnish information, data, and reports to, and shall otherwise cooperate with the said   and chairman.

 

 ,

 
