Executive Order  —Providing Procedures for the Award of the National Medal of Science
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of   entitled "An Act To Establish a National Medal of Science To Provide Recognition for Individuals Who Make Outstanding Contributions in the Physical, Biological,  , and Engineering Sciences" (73 Stat. 431), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

The President's Committee.

There is hereby established   on  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall assist the President, as provided in this order, in connection with the carrying out of the said act of  . The   shall be composed of not less than six and not more than twelve members. Each member of the   shall be designated by the President from among appropriately qualified citizens of  . As nearly as practicable, the members of the   shall comprise a cross section of the major fields of science (including engineering). The President shall from time to time designate one of the members of the   as chairman thereof.

 . 2.

Preliminary procedure.

(a) The   shall receive, on behalf of the President, (1) the recommendations made by   respecting the award of the National Medal of Science (hereinafter referred to as the  ) pursuant to the provisions of section 2(a) of the said act of  , and (2) such similar recommendations as may be made by any other nationally representative scientific or engineering organization. Each such recommendation shall include or be accompanied by such appropriate supporting material as the   may from time to time specify.

(b) On the basis of the criterion stated in section 2(a) of Executive Order No.  , and such other criteria, information, and evidence as it may deem appropriate, and subject to the provisions of section 2(b) of that order, the   shall select from among the individuals who are the subiects of recommendations referred to it in accordance with section 2(a) of this order those individuals whom it desires to recommend for the award of the   and shall transmit the names of those individuals to the President with its recommendations. In so transmitting its recommendations, the   (1) shall include expressions of its views concerning, and such other information as may be pertinent to, its recommendations, and (2) may arrange the names of all or some of the recommended individuals in a sequence deemed by it to indicate the priority in which the several individuals are deserving of the award of the Medal.

(c) Each recommendation respecting the award of the   to an individual transmitted to the President by the   shall be accompanied by a draft of the citation referred to in section 1 of Executive Order No.  .

 . 3.

Time of awards and recommendations.

(a) Each award of the Medal by the President shall be made during   of the calendar year.

(b) In respect of awards of the   proposed to be made by the President in any calendar year, (1) each recommendation of  , or of any other nationally representative scientific or engineering organization, shall be delivered to the   not later than  , and (2) each recommendation of the   shall be delivered to the President not   October of  .

(c) During  , and in unusual circumstances at any time involving extraordinary developments of great national significance, proposals and recommendations with respect to the award of the   may be made, and the   may be awarded, without regard to the provisions of the foregoing subsections of this section.

 . 4.

Services and expenses.

(a)   may provide staff and administrative services necessary for the performance of the functions of the  .

(b) The members of the   shall serve without compensation, but   may pay them transportation and per-diem allowances as authorized for persons serving without compensation (5 U.S.C. 73b-2).

 

 ,

 
