Executive Order  —  of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 955 (c) (3) of   of  , as added by section 12(a) of the Revenue Act of  , approved   (Public Law 87-834, 76 Stat.  ), by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Economically less developed countries. For purposes of subpart A ( . 901 and following) and subpart F ( . 951 and following) of part III of subchapter N, and section 1248 of part IV of subchapter P, of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of  , the following areas are designated as economically less developed countries:

( a ) all foreign countries (including   ) in existence on or after  , other than  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and any foreign country within the   bloc, as defined in section 2;

(b) each territory, department, province, and possession (other than  ) of any foreign country in existence on or after  , other than of a foreign country within the   bloc, as defined in section 2, if the territory, department, province, or possession is overseas from the foreign country of which it is a territory, department, province, or possession; and

(c)   and all possessions of  .

 . 2. Definition of the term "foreign country within the   bloc". For purposes of this  , the term "foreign country within the   bloc" shall mean  ,  , any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  ,  ,  ,  ,  , any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  ,  ,  ,  ,   (including any area under its provisional administration ),  ,   of   and the   Sector of  ,  ,   and  , Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East Prussia which are under the provisional administration of  , and any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  .

 . 3. Rules and regulations. The Secretary of the   or his delegate is authorized to prescribe from time to time regulations, rulings, directions, and instructions to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 4. Effective date. This   shall become effective  .

 

 ,

 
