Executive Order  —Promulgating Regulations Concerning Withholding of Compensation of Civilian Employees of   and  , or  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of  , as amended, 75 Stat. 496 (5 U.S.C. 84d), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of tile  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. As used in this order, the term:

(a) "Employees" means civilian employees of   or   of a   who are employed pursuant to section 709 of title 32 of the United States Code, and paid from  , appropriated funds.

(b) "State" means one of  ,  , and any territory of  .

 . 2. Each agreement between the Secretary of   and the Governor or other proper official of a  , pursuant to the provisions of the act of  , as amended, with respect to withholding of compensation of certain civilian employees of   and   for purposes of   or   sponsored employee retirement, disability, or death benefits systems, shall be entered into by the Secretary of   within one hundred and twenty days of the receipt of a request therefor by the Secretary from the Governor or any other proper official of any State:

Provided,

that—

(a) the law of such   provides for the payment of employee contributions to such   or  -sponsored employee retirement disability, or death benefits systems by withholding sums from the compensation of such   employees and making returns of such sums to officials of such   or organizations designated by such officials to receive sums withheld for such programs.

(b) civilian employees of   and  : other than those employed by  , are eligible for membership in a   retirement, disability, or death benefits system; and

(c) each such agreement is consistent with the provisions of the said act of  , as amended, and of rules and regulations issued thereunder, and contains a clause that it shall be subject to any amendments of the said act, including amendments occurring after the effective date of such agreement.

 . 3. Each such agreement shall:

(a) Provide that the Secretary of the   with respect to civilian employees of  , and the Secretary of   with respect to civilian employees of  , shall comply with the requirements of such   law in the case of employees subject to the said act of  , as amended, who are eligible for membership in such retirement, disability, or death benefits system for   employees;

(b) Specify when the withholding of sums from the compensation of such   employees shall commence; and

(c) Provide for procedures for the withholding, the filing of the returns, and the payment of the sums withheld from compensation to the officials of the  , or organization designated by such officials to receive sums withheld for such programs, which procedures shall conform, so far as practicable, to the usual fiscal practices of   and  , respectively.

 . 4. The Secretary of the   with respect to civilian employees of  , and the Secretary of   with respect to civilian employees of  , shall designate, or provide for the designation of, the officers or employees whose duty it shall be to withhold sums from compensation, file required returns, and direct the payment of sums so withheld, in accordance with the terms of the agreements entered into between the Secretary of   and the States.

 . 5. Nothing in this order, or in rules or regulations issued thereunder, or in any agreement entered into pursuant thereto, shall be construed as giving consent to the application of any provision of law of any   which has the effect of imposing more burdensome requirements upon   than it imposes upon departments, agencies, or political subdivisions of the   concerned, with respect to employees thereof who are members of the   or   sponsored retirement, disability, or death benefits system, or which has the effect of subjecting   or any of its officers or employees to any penalty or liability.

 . 6. I hereby delegate to the Secretary of   authority to prescribe such rules and regulations, not inconsistent herewith, as may be necessary to effectuate further the provisions of the said act of  , as amended, or of this order.

 . 7. Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the date of this order, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.

 . 8. This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  .

 

 ,

 
