Executive Order  —Establishing the President's   on   Policy
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's   on   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and nineteen other members who shall be designated by the President from time to time. Of the nineteen designated members, five shall be from the public at large, seven shall be from labor, and seven shall be from management. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of Commerce shall each alternatively serve as chairman of the   for periods of  , the Secretary of   to so serve during   following the date of this order.

 . 2. The   shall study, and shall advise with and make recommendations to the President with respect to policies that may be followed by labor management, or the public which will promote free and responsible collective bargaining, industrial peace, sound wage and price policies, higher standards of living, and increased productivity. The   shall include among the matters to be considered by it in connection with its studies and recommendations (1) policies designed to ensure that   products are competitive in world markets, and (2) the benefits and problems created by automation and other technological advances.

 . 3. All executive departments and agencies of   are authorized and directed to cooperate with the   and to furnish it such information and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its duties.

 . 4. Consonant with law,   and   shall, as may be necessary for the effectuation of the purposes of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include detailing employees to the  , one of whom may serve as executive officer of the  , to perform such functions, consistent with the purposes of this order, as the   may assign to them, and shall include the furnishing of necessary office space and facilities to the   by  .

 

 ,

 
