Executive Order  —Assigning Emergency Preparedness Functions to the Administrator of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , including authority vested in me by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Scope.

The Administrator of   (hereinafter referred to as the Administrator) shall prepare national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering the emergency management of the  's civil airports, civil aviation operating facilities, civil aviation services, and civil aircraft other than air carrier aircraft. These plans and programs shall be designed to develop a state of readiness in these areas with respect to all conditions of national emergency, including attack upon  .

 . 2.

Transportation Functions.

The Administrator shall:

(a)

National Program Guidance.

  plans and issue national program guidance designed to utilize to the maximum extent the existing non-military facilities, technical competence and resources of  , the States and the local political subdivisions thereof, and non-governmental organizations and systems engaged in aeronautical activities to promote the effective and safe use and maintenance of aeronautical facilities, equipment, and services in an emergency.

(b)

Operations.

Formulate plans for the development, utilization, expansion and emergency management of the  's civil airports, civil aviation ground facilities and equipment required for essential civil air operations, except manufacturing facilities, but including the development of orders for insuring the continued operation of essential civil airports, civil aviation operating facilities, and civil aviation. equipment.

(c)

Priorities and allocations.

  plans and procedures for controls, allocations and priorities concerned with the utilization of aircraft other than air carrier aircraft in an emergency.

(d)

Resources.

Periodically assess assigned resources available from all sources in order to estimate availability under an emergency situation, analyze resource estimates in relation to estimated requirements in order to identify problem areas and develop appropriate recommendations and programs. Provide data and assistance before and after attack for national resource evaluation purposes of  .

(e)

Requirements.

Determine emergency requirements for material and supplies needed to manufacture, maintain or operate air navigation facilities, civil airports, and civil aircraft for which the Administrator is responsible.

(f)

Claimancy.

  plans to claim materials, manpower, equipment, supplies, and services needed to carry out assigned responsibilities and other essential functions of the agency from the appropriate agencies and work with such agencies in developing programs to insure availability of such resources in an emergency.

 . 3.

Cooperation with Department of Defense.

In consonance with national civil defense plans, programs, and operations of  .  , the Administrator shall:

(a)

Professional training.

Prepare and incorporate into appropriate courses dealing with aeronautics and aviation applicable civil defense knowledge and skills necessary to insure the maximum operational effectiveness of essential civil air transportation systems and facilities; and prepare and distribute such civil defense information to the management of air transportation systems and facilities,   and local governments, voluntary agencies, and commercial and professional groups concerned with the development, utilization, expansion, and emergency management of non-military aviation.

(b)

Facilities protection.

Analyze the potential effects of attack as a basis for developing and promoting a national program of vulnerability reduction, disaster preparedness, and damage control designed to minimize the effects of overt or covert attack on civil aviation facilities except aircraft manufacturing plants. Such program shall include, but shall not be limited to, guidance with respect to deconcentration and dispersal of facilities and equipment, organization and training of facility employees, shelter, evacuation and relocation plans, records protection, continuity of management, and emergency repair and recovery of facilities.

(c)

Monitoring.

Provide for the detection, identification, monitoring, and reporting of chemical, biological, and radiological agents at facilities operated or controlled by  .

(d)

Decontamination.

Provide technical advice, guidance, and consultation to   and local civil aviation authorities on measures for minimizing the effects of chemical, biological, and radiological contamination of civil airports and civil aviation facilities, aircraft, ground equipment, and personnel.

(e)

Damage assessment.

Maintain a capability to assess the effects of attack on all air navigation, air traffic control and  , all civil airports, civil aircraft, and all other facilities essential to safe and effective air transportation operations in a national emergency agency and provide data to  .

( f)

Salvage and rehabilitation.

  plans for salvage of supplies and equipment and the rehabilitation or replacement of essential civil aviation systems, facilities, and services after attack, excluding the manufacture of aircraft but including direction of Federal activities for the emergency clearance and restoration of essential civil airports in damaged areas.

 . 4.

Research.

Within the framework of over-all Federal research objectives, the Administrator shall supervise or conduct research directly concerned with carrying out emergency preparedness responsibilities, designate representatives for necessary ad hoc or task force groups, and provide advice and assistance to other agencies in planning for research in areas involving the  's interest.

 . 5.

Functional Guidance.

The Administrator, in carrying out the functions assigned in this order, shall be guided by the following:

(a)

Interagency cooperation.

The Administrator shall work with the Secretary of  ,  , and heads of other agencies concerned with the development of a national emergency transportation program. In the development of emergency plans and programs pursuant to this order and in the execution of functions assigned thereunder, the Administrator shall perform his functions in a manner compatible with his responsibilities to   under the Federal Aviation Act of  , and without compromise of his ability to discharge such responsibilities. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the authority vested in the Administrator by   of   with respect to the exercise of the Administrator's authority and responsibility in an "air defense emergency" (as distinguished from a "civil defense emergency"), or other state of emergency as may be declared by the President.

(b)

Presidential coordination.

The Director of   shall advise and assist the President in determining policy for, and assist him in coordinating the performance of functions under this order with the total national preparedness program.

(c)

Emergency planning.

Emergency plans and programs, and emergency organizational structure required thereby, shall be developed as an integral part of the continuing activities of   on the basis that it will have the responsibility for carrying out such programs during an emergency. The Administrator shall be prepared to implement all appropriate plans developed under this order. Modifications and temporary organizational changes, based on emergency conditions, will be in accordance with policy determination by the President.

 . 6.

Emergency Actions.

Nothing in this order shall be construed as conferring authority under Title III of   of  , as amended, or otherwise, to put into effect any emergency plan, procedure, policy, program, or course of action prepared or developed pursuant to this order. Such authority is reserved to the President.

 . 7.

Redelegation.

The Administrator of   is hereby authorized to redelegate within the   the functions hereinabove assigned to him.

 . 8.

Prior Actions.

To the extent of any inconsistency between the provisions of any prior order and the provisions of this order, the latter shall control. Emergency Preparedness Order No. 3 (heretofore issued by the Director,  ) (26 F.R. 655-656) is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 
