Executive Order  —The Presidential Medal of Freedom
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

Prior orders.

The numbered sections of Executive Order No.  , as amended by Executive Order No. 10336 of  , are hereby amended to read as follows:

"SECTION 1.

  established.

The Medal of Freedom is hereby re-established as  , with accompanying ribbons and appurtenances. The Presidential Medal of Freedom, hereinafter referred to as the  , shall be in two degrees.

" . 2.

Award of the Medal.

(a) The   may be awarded by the President as provided in this order to any person who has made an especially meritorious contribution to (1) the security or national interests of  , or (2) world peace, or (3) cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.

"(b) The President may select for award of the   any person nominated by the   referred to in Section 3(a) of this  , any person otherwise recommended to the President for award of the  , or any person selected by the President upon his own initiative.

"(c) The principal announcement of awards of the   shall normally be made  , on or about July 4 of each year; but such awards may be made at other times, as the President may deem appropriate.

"(d) Subject to the provisions of this  , the   may be awarded posthumously.

" . 3.

Distinguished Civilian Service Awards Board.

(a)  , established by Executive Order No.  , hereinafter referred to as the  , is hereby expanded, for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this  , to include five additional members appointed by the President from outside   of the Government. The terms of service of the members of the   appointed under this paragraph shall be  , except that the first five members so appointed shall have terms of service expiring on  , and  , respectively. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall serve for the remainder of such term.

. "(b) A chairman of the   shall be designated by the President from time to time from among the membership of the   appointed from  .

"(c) For purposes of recommending to the President persons to receive the President's  , and to carry out the other purposes of Executive Order No.  , only the members of the   from   will sit. The names of persons so recommended will be submitted to the President without reference to the other members of the  .

"  4.

Functions of the Board.

(a) Any individual or group may make recommendations to the   with respect to the award of the  , and the   shall consider such recommendations.

"(b) With due regard for the provisions of Section 2 of this  , the   shall screen such recommendations and, on the basis of such recommendations or upon its own motion, shall from time to time submit to the President nominations of individuals for award of the  , in appropriate degrees.

" . 5.

Expenses.

Necessary administrative expenses of the   incurred in connection with the recommendation of persons to receive  , including expenses of travel of members of the   appointed under Section 3 (a) of this  , during  , may be paid from the appropriation provided under the heading 'Special Projects' in  ,  , 76 Stat. 315, and during subsequent  , to the extent permitted by law, from any corresponding or like appropriation made available for  . Such payments shall be without regard to the provisions of section 3681 of the Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Act of  , 35 Stat.   (31 U.S.C. 672 and 673). Members of the Board appointed under Section 3(a) of this   shall serve without compensation.

" . 6.

Design of the Medal.

  shall prepare for the approval of the President a design of the Medal in each of its degrees."

 . 2.

Other existing orders.

(a) Section 4 of Executive Order No.  , establishing the terms of service of the members of  , is hereby amended to read "The members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President", and the other sections of that   are amended conformably to this  .

(b) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this  , existing arrangements for conferring medals and honors shall continue in effect.

 

 ,

 
