Executive  —Establishing the President's  
 
 

WHEREAS recent studies, both private and public, have revealed disturbing deficiencies in the physical fitness of   youth; and

WHEREAS, since the youth of our   is one of our greatest assets, it is imperative that the physical fitness of our youth be improved and promoted to the greatest possible extent; and

WHEREAS there also are evidences of deficiencies in the physical fitness of   adults; and

WHEREAS there is a close relationship between physical fitness and intellectual vigor and moral strength; and

WHEREAS the physical fitness of its citizens is a concern of the government at all levels, as well as a responsibility of the family, the school, the community, and other groups and organizations; and

WHEREAS it is necessary that the activities of   in this area be coordinated and administered so as to assure their maximum effectiveness and to provide guidance and stimulation:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.

President's  .

There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of the Secretary of  , and  , who shall be the Chairman of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  .

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

(a) The   shall foster improvements in existing programs and promote additional efforts to enhance the physical fitness of  . The   shall seek to coordinate, stimulate, and improve the functions of Federal agencies with respect to physical fitness.

(b) The   shall enlist the active support and assistance of individual citizens, civic groups, professional associations, private enterprise, voluntary organizations, and other groups in a vigorous effort to promote and improve the physical fitness of all  .

 . 3.

 .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any executive department or other agency of the   or any officer thereof.

(b) Each executive department the head of which is referred to in section 1 of this order shall, as may be necessary for the purpose of effectuating the provisions of this order, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with section 214 of the act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

 . 4.

Continuity.

The   established by this order shall be deemed to be a continuation of the President's  .

 . 5.

Seal.

Executive Order  , prescribing a seal for the President's  , is hereby amended by substituting the word "Physical" wherever the word "Youth" appears in said order.

 . 6.

Revocations.

Executive Order   of  , Executive Order 10772 of  , and Executive Order   of  , are hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 
