Executive Order  —Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions Under Sections 1(a) and 1(b) of   of 1946
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Subsection (b) of Section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended by Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby further amended to read as follows:

"(b) The authority vested in the President by sections 1(a) and 1 (b) of the act of  , ch. 744, 60 Stat. 806, 807, as amended by the act of  , 72 Stat. 14 (5 U.S.C. 73b-1(a), 73b-1 (b) ), to prescribe regulations (1) with respect to the allowance and payment from   funds of the expenses of travel of any civilian officer or employee of the   transferred from one official station to another for permanent duty, the expenses of transportation of his immediate family (or commutation thereof), and the expenses of transportation, packing, crating, temporary storage, drayage, and unpacking of his household goods and personal effects; (2) with respect to the reimbursement of such officer or employee on a commuted basis in lieu of the payment of actual expenses of transportation, packing, crating, temporary storage, drayage, and unpacking of his household goods and personal effects in the case of such transfers between points-in the continental  , except that this authority shall not include authority with respect to the establishment of the commuted rates on which such reimbursement is made; and (3) with respect to the amount of the allowance, and the payment thereof, to such officer or employee for the transportation of a house trailer or mobile dwelling within the continental  , within  , or between the continental   and  , for use as a residence."

 . 2.   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, so much of the authority vested in the President by Section 1 (b) of the Act of  , ch. 744, 60 Stat. 807 (5 U.S.C.  )), as pertains to the establishment of the rates to be used in reimbursing civilian officers or employees of the Government on a commuted basis in lieu of the payment of actual expenses of transportation, packing, crating, temporary storage, drayage, and unpacking of their household goods and personal effects in the case of transfers from one official station to another within the continental   for permanent duty.

 . 3. The initial regulations to be issued by the Director of   and by   under the authority delegated to each of them by this order shall be effective on the same date and effective as of that date the following-described Executive orders are revoked:

(a) Executive Order No. 9778 of  .

(b) Executive Order No. 980a of  .

(c) Executive Order No. 9933 of  .

(d ) Executive Order No.   of September 8,  .

(e) Executive Order No.   of  .

(f) ) Executive Order No.   of  .

(g) Executive Order No. 10196 of  .

(h) Executive Order No. 10274 of  .

(i) Executive Order No.   of  .

(j) Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 4. Existing regulations prescribed by the Director of   under the authority of Section 1 (b) of Executive Order No.  , as amended and in effect immediately prior to the issuance of this order, shall remain in effect until they are superseded in pursuance of the provisions of this order.

 

 ,

 
