Executive Order 10945—Administration of the Export Control Act of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Export Control Act of   as amended, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The power, authority, and discretion conferred upon the President by the provisions of the Export Control Act of   (63 Stat. 7), as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , with power of successive redelegation.

 . 2. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The Board shall be composed of the Secretary of' Commerce, who shall be the Chairman of the Board, the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  . No alternate Board members shall be designated, but the acting head of any department may serve in lieu of the head of the department concerned. The   may invite the heads of Government agencies, other than the departments represented by the   members, to participate in the activities of the   when matters of interest to such agencies are under consideration.

 . 3. The Secretary of   may from time to time refer to the   such particular export license matters, involving questions of national security or other major policy issues, as he shall select. The Secretary of   shall also refer to the   any other such export license matter, upon the request of any other member of the   or of the head of any other   department or agency having an interest in such matter. The   shall consider the matters so referred to it, giving due consideration to the foreign policy of  , the national security, and the domestic economy, and shall make recommendations thereon to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. The President may at any time (a) prescribe rules and regulations applicable to the power, authority, and discretion referred to in section 1 of this order, and (b) communicate to the Secretary of Commerce such specific directives applicable thereto as the President shall determine. The Secretary of Commerce shall from time to time report to the President upon the administration of the Export Control Act of  , as amended, and, as he may deem necessary, may refer to the President recommendations made by the   under section 3 of this order. Neither the provisions of this section nor those of section 3 shall be construed as limiting the provisions of section 1 of this order.

 . 5 (a) All provisions relating to export control that are contained in the following and are now effective are hereby superseded:

(1) Proclamation No.   of  

(2) Executive Order No. 8900 of  

(3) Executive Order No. 8982 of  

(4) Executive Order No. 9361 of  

(5) Executive Order No.  , of  

(6) Executive Order No.  , of  

(7) Executive Order No.   of  

(b) Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with this order, all outstanding delegations, rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action made, issued, or otherwise taken under, or continued in force by, the Export Control Act of  , as amended, shall remain in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by proper authority.

 

 ,

 
