Executive Order  —Administration of Palmyra Island
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 48 of   (approved  ; 74 Stat. 424;   86-624) and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of the   shall be responsible for the civil administration of Palmyra Island and all executive and legislative authority necessary for that administration, and all judicial authority respecting Palmyra Island other than the authority contained in the Act of   (64 Stat. 217), as amended (48 U.S.C. 644a) shall be vested in the Secretary of the  .

 . 2. The executive, legislative, and judicial authority provided for in section 1 of this order (1) may be exercised through such agency or agencies of  , or through such officers or employees under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the  , as the Secretary may direct or authorize, (2) may be exercised through such agency or agencies, other than or not in   or through such officers or employees of   not under the administrative supervision of the Secretary, for such time and under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the Secretary and such agency, agencies, officers or employees of  , and (3) shall be exercised in such manner as the Secretary, or any person or persons acting under the authority of the Secretary, may direct or authorize.

 . 3. The Secretary of the   may confer upon   District Court for the District of Hawaii such jurisdiction, in addition to that contained in the Act of  , and such judicial functions and duties, as he may deem appropriate for the civil administration of Palmyra Island.

 . 4. The foregoing provisions of this order shall continue in force until the   shall provide for the civil administration of Palmyra Island or until such earlier time as the President may specify.

 . 5. As used herein, the term "Palmyra Island" means the place of that name, consisting of a group of islets located in the Pacific Ocean approximately at Latitude 5°52' North and  , and includes the territorial waters of that place and includes also the reefs surrounding that place or any part thereof.

 . 6. To the extent that any prior Executive order or proclamation is inconsistent with the provisions of this order, this order shall control.

 . 7. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to reduce, limit, or otherwise modify the authority or responsibility of the Attorney General to represent the legal interests of   in civil or criminal cases arising under the provisions of the Act of  , or under the provisions of section 3 of this order.

 

 ,

 
