Executive Order  —   
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of  , as amended (7 U.S.C.  ;   87-488, 76 Stat. 104), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The President's  , consisting of the Secretaries of State, the  ,  , and   with the Secretary of   as Chairman, shall exercise supervision over the administration of   in Cotton Textiles done at   on  , and shall advise generally with respect to problems relating to textiles.

 . 2. (a) The President's   shall establish a subcommittee to be known as   as a successor to   established  . It shall be located, for administrative purposes, at  , and shall be under the Chairmanship of a designee of the Secretary of  . This Committee shall be composed of the Chairman and one representative each from  ,  ,  , and  .

(b)   shall recommend actions to be taken by appropriate officials and agencies of   with regard to the rights and obligations of   under   and with regard to such other matters relating to textiles as may be referred to it by the President's  . In the event of disagreement within   with respect to a proposed recommendation, it shall be reviewed and determined by the President's  .

 . 3. The Secretary of  , after consultation with the President's   in respect of relevant policies, shall undertake the negotiations contemplated by  , including bilateral textile agreements. The Secretary of   shall designate an official of   to be Chairman of   delegation to   established by the Contracting Parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and shall request   and   each to appoint a representative of his   to serve on the delegation.

 . 4. The Commissioner of   shall take such actions as the Chairman of the President's   may, upon either the unanimous recommendation of  , or the recommendation of the President's  , direct to carry out   with respect to entry, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in  , of cotton textiles and cotton textile products.

 . 5. This order shall be effective  , at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time.

 

 ,

 
