Executive Order  —Providing Assistance for the Removal of Unlawful Obstructions of Justice in  
 
 

WHEREAS on  , I issued Proclamation No.   reading in part as follows:

"WHEREAS the Governor of   and certain law enforcement officers and other officials of that  , and other persons, individually and in unlawful assemblies, combinations and conspiracies, have been and are willfully opposing and obstructing the enforcement of orders entered by   District Court for the Southern District of   and   for  ; and

"WHEREAS such unlawful assemblies, combinations and conspiracies oppose and obstruct the execution of the laws of  , impede the course of justice under those laws and make it impracticable to enforce those laws in   by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings; and

"WHEREAS I have expressly called the attention of the Governor of   to the perilous situation that exists and to his duties in the premises, and have requested but have not received from him adequate assurances that the orders of the courts of   will be obeyed and that law and order will be maintained:

'"NOW, THEREFORE, I,  , President of  , under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly sections 332, 333 and 334 thereof, do command all persons engaged in such obstructions of justice to cease and desist therefrom and to disperse and retire peaceably forthwith;" and

WHEREAS the commands contained in that proclamation have not been obeyed and obstruction of enforcement of those court orders still exists and threatens to continue:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10, particularly Sections 332, 333 and 334 thereof, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to enforce all orders of   District Court for the Southern District of   and   for   and to remove all obstructions of justice in  .

 . 9. In furtherance of the enforcement of the aforementioned orders of   District Court for the Southern District of   and   for  , the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of the armed forces of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. I hereby authorize the Secretary of   to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units of   and of   of the State of   to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, ordered into the active military service of   pursuant to this section.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 

 ,

 
