Executive Order  —Providing Assistance for Removal of Unlawful Obstructions of Justice in  
 
 

WHEREAS, on  , I issued a proclamation entitled "Obstructions of Justice in  " pursuant in part to the provisions of Section 334 of Title 10 of the United States Code; and

WHEREAS the commands contained in that proclamation have not been obeyed, and the unlawful obstructions of justice, assemblies, combinations, and conspiracies referred to therein continue:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, particularly Sections 382, 383 and 384 thereof, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of   is authorized and directed to take all appropriate steps to remove obstructions of justice in  , to enforce the laws of   within that  , including any orders of   relating to the enrollment and attendance of students in public schools in  , and to suppress unlawful assemblies, combinations, conspiracies, and domestic violence which oppose, obstruct, or hinder the execution of the law or impede the course of justice under the law within that  .

 . 2. In furtherance of the authorization and direction contained in Section 1 hereof, the Secretary of   is authorized to use such of   as he may deem necessary.

 . 3. I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of   to call into the active military service of  , as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order, any or all of the units of   and of   of   to serve in the active military service of   for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. In carrying out the provisions of Section 1, the Secretary of   is authorized to use the units, and members thereof, of   and of   of   called into the active military service of   pursuant to this section or otherwise.

 . 4. The Secretary of   is authorized to delegate to the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , or both, any of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 

 ,

 
