117 HCON 96 IH: Recognizing the historical significance of the 70th anniversary of the Miller v. Board of Education of District of Columbia decision.
U.S. House of Representatives
2022-07-05
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 96
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 5, 2022
Mr. Takano
(for himself and
Ms. Norton
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Recognizing the historical significance of the 70th anniversary of the Miller v. Board of Education of District of Columbia decision.
Whereas equal access to a free public education in the United States is a right;
Whereas, prior to 1952, Black Deaf children in the District of Columbia were not permitted to attend the Kendall School for the Deaf on the Gallaudet College campus and were sent outside of the District for their education;
Whereas Louise Burrell Miller, the mother of 4 children, 3 of whom were deaf, filed suit in Federal court against the District of Columbia Board of Education on behalf of her Black Deaf son, Kenneth, and other Black Deaf children who were denied admission to the Kendall School, with the aim of ending segregation and having their Black Deaf children educated within the District;
Whereas, on July 3, 1952, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled in their favor in Miller v. Board of Education of District of Columbia, stating that African Americans could not be sent outside a State or district to obtain the same education that White students could have within the State or district; and
Whereas this ruling led to the construction of the Kendall School Division II at Gallaudet in 1953, which educated 23 Black Deaf children until its closure in 1954 following the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, in which the Court decided unanimously that racial segregation of children in public schools was unconstitutional: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
recognizes the significance of the 70th anniversary of the Miller v. Board of Education of District of Columbia decision;
(2)
honors the courage and leadership of Louise and Luther Miller and their children, Kenneth, Carol, Gerald, and Justin Miller; and
(3)
remembers the 23 Black Deaf children who attended and the 4 teachers who taught at the segregated Kendall School Division II.
