1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Gas for Allies Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The United States has been a critical member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization since 1949.
(2)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has provided safety and security for the United States and its European allies for decades.
(3)
Ukraine has been a crucial strategic partner for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization since the early 1990’s, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has long held that Ukraine’s future includes full membership in the alliance.
(4)
Russia’s unprovoked 2022 invasion of Ukraine presents a security threat to all the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, including the United States.
(5)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization supports Ukraine’s right to self-defense and its right to choose its own security arrangements.
(6)
The United States maintaining a strong partnership with Ukraine is vital to the security of both countries.
(7)
Liquified natural gas imported from the United States has provided Ukraine a critical lifeline during Russia’s unprovoked invasion.
(8)
A dependable supply of energy is vital to the economic and national security of all of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries.
(9)
It is in the national security interest of the United States for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries to acquire energy resources from the United States, rather than foreign adversaries.
(10)
The United States National Energy Technology Laboratory has concluded that United States liquified natural gas supplied to Europe has up to 56 percent less total greenhouse gas emissions than European coal, while Russian natural gas delivered to Europe has up to 22 percent more greenhouse gas emissions than European coal.
(11)
The United States liquified natural gas industry has contributed more than $400,000,000,000 to United States gross domestic product and supported more than 270,000 United States jobs on average, annually since 2016.
3.
Temporary treatment of certain applications for the exportation of natural gas
(a)
In general
During the period described in subsection (c) of this section, for purposes of section 3(a) of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b(a)
), the exportation of natural gas to a foreign country described in subsection (b) of this section shall be deemed to be consistent with the public interest, and applications for such exportation shall be granted without modification or delay.
(b)
Foreign countries
A foreign country described in this subsection is—
(1)
a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; or
(2)
Ukraine.
(c)
Applicability
This section shall apply with respect to applications for the authorization to export natural gas under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) to a foreign country described in subsection (b) of this section that are pending on the date of enactment of this Act, or filed during the period that begins on such date of enactment and ends on the date that is 3 years after such date of enactment.
