1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fix Our Flooded Basements Act of 2025
.
2.
Assistance for flood-damaged basements
(a)
Repairs
In providing assistance for repairs to flood-damaged basements under section 408(c)(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174(c)(2)
), the Administrator—
(1)
may not limit such assistance to rooms required for the occupancy of the dwelling; and
(2)
may provide assistance for any mold, mildew, and moisture damage caused by a major disaster and may not limit such assistance to only mold, mildew, or moisture damage that—
(A)
may cause additional loss; or
(B)
affects the safety, sanitation, and functionality of the home.
(b)
Personal property assistance
In providing assistance for personal property expenses under section 408(e)(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174(e)(2)
), the Administrator shall provide assistance—
(1)
to cover the cost of personal property in a manner that is at least equivalent to the coverage provided under the Standard Flood Insurance Policy for building property and personal property located below the lowest floor of a building, including basements (as defined in section 59.1 of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulations); and
(2)
to cover the costs of repair or replacement of all building and personal property located in a flood-damaged basement that is damaged by a major disaster.
(c)
Group Flood Insurance Policy
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall revise sections 61.17 and 206.119(b)(9) of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, to make the following changes:
(1)
Permit applicants who had a previous requirement to maintain flood insurance as a condition of receiving assistance under section 408 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174
) to be eligible for the Group Flood Insurance Policy.
(2)
Permit applicants residing outside a special flood hazard area to be eligible for the Group Flood Insurance Policy.
(3)
Expand the coverage under the Group Flood Insurance Policy to be at least equivalent to the maximum coverage available in the Standard Flood Insurance Policy.
(4)
Expand the Group Flood Insurance Policy to include coverage for the following:
(A)
Real and personal property components and contents in basements, including repairs to address water damage, appliances, flooring and carpet repairs, and any other items necessary to return the basement to its previous pre-flood condition.
(B)
Any real and personal property components and contents in basements covered under the additional endorsement for basement coverage for the Standard Flood Insurance Policy, as described in the proposed rule titled
National Flood Insurance Program: Standard Flood Insurance Policy, Homeowner Flood Form
and issued by the Administrator on February 6, 2024 (89 Fed. Reg. 8282).
(C)
Mold, mildew, and moisture damage in basements.
(d)
Maximum amount of financial assistance
Section 408(h) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174(h)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Exclusion of mitigation measures
The maximum amount of assistance established under paragraph (1) shall exclude expenses for eligible hazard mitigation measures in flood-damaged basements under subsection (c)(2)(A)(ii).
(6)
Exclusion of Group Flood Insurance Policy premiums
The maximum amount of assistance established under paragraph (1) shall exclude expenses for premiums for the Group Flood Insurance Policy pursuant to subsection (e)(2).
.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(2)
Group Flood Insurance Policy
The term
Group Flood Insurance Policy
means the group flood insurance policy established by the Administrator under section 61.17 of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations.
(3)
Standard Flood Insurance Policy
The term
Standard Flood Insurance Policy
means the standard flood insurance policy under the national flood insurance program established pursuant to the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968
(
42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.
).
