1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No More Narcos Act
.
2.
Informational campaign and national strategy
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, acting through the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration and in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Education, the Director of National Drug Control Policy, and such other Federal, State, local, or tribal agency as may be appropriate, shall establish and implement an informational campaign to educate covered students on the dangers and risks of working with cartels or other transnational criminal organizations.
(b)
National strategy
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish and implement a national strategy to combat cartels and other transnational criminal organizations targeting and recruiting minors in the United States to engage in unlawful smuggling or trafficking activities.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered student
The term
covered student
means students in middle grades and high school in United States communities 100 miles or less from the United States-Mexico border.
(2)
High school
The term
high school
has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(3)
Middle grades
The term
middle grades
has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
).
(4)
Minor
The term
minor
means an individual who has not attained 18 years of age.
(5)
Transnational criminal organizations
The term
transnational criminal organization
means self-perpetuating associations of individuals who—
(A)
operate transnationally for the purpose of obtaining power, influence, monetary or commercial gains, wholly or in part by illegal means, while protecting their illegal activities through—
(i)
a pattern of corruption or violence; or
(ii)
a transnational organizational structure and the exploitation of transnational commerce or communication mechanisms. Transnational criminal organizations; and
(B)
engage in a broad range of criminal activities, including drug and weapons trafficking, migrant smuggling, human trafficking, cybercrime, intellectual property theft, money laundering, wildlife and timber trafficking, illegal fishing, and illegal mining.
3.
DOJ Assets Forfeiture Fund
Section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (I), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (J)(ii), by striking the period and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
(K)
payments for—
(i)
the informational campaign to educate students on the dangers and risks of working with cartels or other transnational criminal organizations under the No More Narcos Act; and
(ii)
the national strategy to combat cartels and other transnational criminal organizations targeting and recruiting minors in the United States to engage in unlawful smuggling or trafficking activities under such Act.
.
