1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Respect for Essential Workers Act
.
2.
Temporary Protected Status for essential workers
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a covered alien may not be removed from the United States on the basis that the grant of temporary protected status under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1254a
) has been terminated.
(b)
Adjustment of status
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a covered alien may adjust to the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1255
) beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered alien
means an alien who—
(A)
on the date of enactment of this Act, is present in the United States pursuant to a grant of temporary protected status under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1254a
); and
(B)
works in or receives training for an occupation in—
(i)
an essential industry or in a region with a documented labor shortage, as determined by the Secretary of Labor; or
(ii)
a health care-related profession in a health professional shortage area, as determined by the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration.
(2)
The term
essential industry
means any of the following:
(A)
Health care.
(B)
Emergency response.
(C)
Sanitation.
(D)
Restaurant ownership, food preparation, vending, catering, food packaging, food services, or food delivery.
(E)
Hotel or retail.
(F)
Fish, poultry, and meat processing.
(G)
Agricultural work, including labor that is seasonal in nature.
(H)
Housing, residential, or commercial construction-related activities, or public works construction.
(I)
Natural disaster recovery, disaster reconstruction, and related construction.
(J)
Home and community-based work, including—
(i)
home health care;
(ii)
residential care;
(iii)
the provision of assistance with activities of daily living;
(iv)
any service provided by a direct care worker (as such term is defined in section 799B of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 295p
)), a personal care aide, job coach, or supported employment provider; and
(v)
the provision of any other type of care to an individual in their home by a direct service provider, personal care attendant, and home health aide.
(K)
Family care, including the provision of child care services, including in-home child care services (such as nanny services), and care services provided by one family member to another family member.
(L)
Transportation or logistics.
