1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Truth in Tariffs Act
.
2.
Tariff impact transparency
(a)
Requirement
No person may sell to a consumer in the United States a good without displaying to such consumer, in a clear and conspicuous manner, the portion of the price of such good that is attributable to a covered tariff (identified as the
tariff surcharge
).
(b)
Exemption
Subsection (a) does not apply to a sale made by a small business concern.
(c)
Regulations
The Federal Trade Commission may promulgate, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
(d)
Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission
(1)
Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be treated as a violation of a regulation under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)
) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
(2)
Powers of Commission
The Federal Trade Commission shall enforce this section and the regulations promulgated under this section in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act. Any person who violates this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
(e)
Applicability
This section shall apply to a sale that occurs on or after the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered tariff
The term
covered tariff
means a tariff, including a tariff rate change—
(A)
imposed on an emergency or other discretionary basis by the President; and
(B)
that entered into force on or after January 20, 2025.
(2)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
