1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
FEMA Critical Staffing Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds that—
(1)
the Federal Emergency Management Agency supports communities before disasters happen to help understand and prepare for possible risks, during disasters to assist the public and provide recovery centers, and after a disaster to support recovery and mitigating future hazards; and
(2)
due to frequent climate change-fueled disasters like winter wildfires, hail from thunderstorms, and hurricanes, the Federal Emergency Management Agency works year-round to support communities across the United States.
3.
Federal weather monitoring and disaster response workforce level require
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated or otherwise made to for the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall be used to reinstate to a position in the Federal Emergency Management Agency each individual who—
(1)
during the period beginning on January 20, 2025, and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act, was involuntarily separated from service in a position in the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
(2)
elects to be so reinstated.
4.
Continuation of authorized FEMA programs
(a)
Requirements
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency—
(1)
shall continue to carry out any programs for which funds have been appropriated that support State and local efforts to prepare for and respond to extreme weather events; and
(2)
may not make any changes to existing congressionally mandated programs that will reduce access to extreme weather resources.
(b)
Actions required
In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall—
(1)
immediately reinstate the Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities program (established pursuant to section 203(i) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5133(i)
)) and carry out any project under such program for which funds have been made available; and
(2)
immediately reinstate the flood mitigation assistance program authorized under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 4104c
) and carry out any project for which funds have been made available under such program.
