1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Congressman Donald M. Payne, Jr. served the people of New Jersey with distinction as a Member of the United States House of Representatives from 2012 until his passing in 2024, representing New Jersey’s 10th Congressional District with deep dedication and integrity.
(2)
A native of Newark, New Jersey, Congressman Payne, Jr. was a lifelong public servant. Congressman Payne, Jr. got his start with the New Jersey Highway Authority, later served on the Essex County Board of Freeholders, and eventually rose to become President of the Newark City Council in New Jersey. In these roles, as in Congress, he built a reputation as a champion for public health, transportation access, and social justice.
(3)
In his time representing New Jersey’s 10th Congressional District, Congressman Payne, Jr. was a tireless advocate for infrastructure investment and public transit, serving as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials.
(4)
Congressman Payne, Jr. was instrumental in securing Federal funding for improvements to Newark Penn Station, one of the most critical transportation hubs in the Northeast, recognizing its importance to the connectivity and economic vitality of the region.
(5)
In addition to his legislative work, Congressman Payne, Jr. was known for his humor, devotion to his family, and signature colorful bow ties. A friend to many, he consistently brought the voices of those too often unheard to the halls of Congress, and worked to extend the founding promises of our Nation to all New Jerseyans.
(6)
Redesignating Newark Penn Station in Congressman Payne Jr.’s honor is a fitting tribute to a public servant who helped secure pivotal investments in our Nation’s railways and the City of Newark, New Jersey.
2.
Donald M. Payne, Jr. Transit Center at Newark Penn Station
(a)
Designation
Newark Penn Station, located at 1 Raymond Plaza West, Newark, New Jersey, shall be known and designated as the
Donald M. Payne, Jr. Transit Center at Newark Penn Station
.
(b)
References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to Newark Penn Station shall be deemed to be a reference to the
Donald M. Payne, Jr. Transit Center at Newark Penn Station
.
