1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
District of Columbia Special Elections Home Rule Act
.
2.
Timing of special elections for local office in District of Columbia
(a)
Council
(1)
Chair
The first sentence of section 401(b)(3) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.01(b)(3), D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
To fill a vacancy in the Office of Chairman, the Board of Elections shall hold a special election in the District in accordance with such procedures, including procedures establishing the time of the election, as may be established by law of the District of Columbia.
.
(2)
Members elected from wards
The first sentence of section 401(d)(1) of such Act (sec. 1–204.01(d)(1), D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
In the event of a vacancy in the Council of a member elected from a ward, the Board of Elections shall hold a special election in the District in accordance with such procedures, including procedures establishing the time of the election, as may be established by law of the District of Columbia.
.
(3)
Members elected at-large
The second sentence of section 401(d)(2) of such Act (sec. 1–204.01(d)(2), D.C. Official Code) is amended by striking
and such special election
and all that follows and inserting the following:
and such special election shall be held in accordance with such procedures, including procedures establishing the time of the election, as may be established by law of the District of Columbia.
.
(b)
Mayor
The first sentence of section 421(c)(2) of such Act (sec. 1–204.21(c)(2), D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
To fill a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, the Board of Elections shall hold a special election in the District in accordance with such procedures, including procedures establishing the time of the election, as may be established by law of the District of Columbia.
.
(c)
Attorney General
The first sentence of section 435(b)(1) of such Act (sec. 1–204.35(b)(1), D.C. Official Code) is amended by striking
the Board of Elections
and all that follows and inserting the following:
the Board of Elections shall hold a special election in the District in accordance with such procedures, including procedures establishing the time of the election, as may be established by law of the District of Columbia.
.
3.
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall apply with respect to vacancies occurring after the expiration of the one-year period which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act.
