1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prohibition on Funding to CECOT Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Center for the Confinement of Terrorism (CECOT) maximum security prison in Tecoluca, El Salvador, has been the subject of human rights issues.
(2)
Credible reports have documented inhumane conditions, lack of due process, and violations of international standards for the treatment of detainees.
(3)
Continued financial assistance that supports or facilitates the operation or expansion of the CECOT prison may contravene the human rights standards upheld by the United States and its international partners.
3.
Prohibition on funding
(a)
Prohibition on current and future funding
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be appropriated or otherwise made available to directly or indirectly support, finance, assist, or contribute to—
(1)
the construction, maintenance, expansion, or operation of the Center for the Confinement of Terrorism maximum security prison in Tecoluca, El Salvador (referred to in this Act as the
CECOT prison
);
(2)
any personnel training, equipment, infrastructure, or services intended for use at or in connection with the CECOT prison;
(3)
any entity, program, or activity that facilitates the continued operation or expansion of the CECOT prison; or
(4)
costs associated with the detention of any individuals transported from the United States to El Salvador, irrespective of their status under the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
)), in the CECOT prison or in any other prison in El Salvador.
(b)
Termination of current funding
Any unexpended balances of any grant or other Federal funds previously made available by any Act and obligated for any of the purposes described in subsection (a) are permanently rescinded.
4.
Reporting requirements
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a report identifying the following:
(1)
Any funds obligated or expended for any of the purposes described in section 3(a), including funds made available prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
Any contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements in effect that involve support to the CECOT prison, directly or indirectly.
(3)
A plan for the reallocation or return of any funds described in section 3(b).
