1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering White Supremacist Extremism Act
.
2.
Threat assessment
(a)
In general
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall, in coordination with appropriate Federal partners, develop a terrorism threat assessment and reference aid regarding threats to the United States associated with foreign violent white supremacist extremist organizations. Consistent with the protection of classified and confidential unclassified information, the Under Secretary shall share the threat assessment developed under this section with State, local, and Tribal law enforcement officials, including officials who operate within State, local, and regional fusion centers through the Department of Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative established in accordance with section 210A of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 124h
).
(b)
Foundation, incorporation, and coordination
The threat assessment and reference aid developed pursuant to subsection (a)—
(1)
shall be—
(A)
based on and incorporate appropriate elements of the Department of State Strategy for Countering White Identity Terrorism Globally required under section 1299F of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (
Public Law 116–283
;
22 U.S.C. 2656j
); and
(B)
developed in coordination with the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department of Homeland Security and other appropriate Federal agencies; and
(2)
may be informed by existing products developed by such Office and agencies, as appropriate.
(c)
Overview
The threat assessment and reference aid shall include an overview of symbols, flags, or other references utilized by adherents of foreign violent white supremacist extremist organizations.
(d)
Distribution
Consistent with the protection of classified and confidential unclassified information, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall share the threat assessment and reference aid with the following:
(1)
State, local, and Tribal law enforcement officials, including officials who operate within State, local, and regional fusion centers through the Department of Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative established in accordance with section 210A of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 124h
).
(2)
Appropriate owners and operators of online platforms to assist in identifying content that may be associated with a foreign violent white supremacist extremist organization that may violate the terms of service of such online platforms, upon request from such online platforms and in consultation with the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Foreign violent white supremacist extremist organization
The term
foreign violent white supremacist extremist organization
means an organization based outside the United States that seeks, wholly or in part, through unlawful acts of force or violence, to support a belief in the intellectual and moral superiority of the white race over other races.
(2)
Online platform
The term
online platform
means internet-based information services consisting of the storage and processing of information by and at the request of a content provider and the dissemination of such content to third parties.
(f)
Limitation
The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall ensure that the threat assessment and reference aid does not contain the name or other identifiable information of any individual or organization engaged in lawful political or public discourse in the United States protected under the United States Constitution.
