1.
Congressional task force on voting rights of United States citizen residents of territories of the United States
(a)
Findings relating to territorial voting rights
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The right to vote is one of the most powerful instruments residents of the territories of the United States have to ensure that their voices are heard.
(2)
These Americans have played an important part in the American democracy for more than 120 years.
(3)
Political participation and the right to vote are among the highest concerns of territorial residents in part because they were not always afforded these rights.
(4)
Voter participation in the territories consistently ranks higher than many communities on the mainland.
(5)
Territorial residents serve and die, on a per capita basis, at a higher rate in every United States war and conflict since WWI, as an expression of their commitment to American democratic principles and patriotism.
(b)
Task Force
(1)
Establishment
There is established within the legislative branch a Congressional Task Force on Voting Rights of United States Citizen Residents of Territories of the United States (in this section referred to as the
Task Force
).
(2)
Membership
The Task Force shall be composed of 15 members as follows:
(A)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.
(B)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
(C)
Two Members of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
(D)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House.
(E)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.
(F)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
(G)
One Member of the House of Representatives, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
(H)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(I)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
(J)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
(K)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate.
(L)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(M)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
(N)
One Member of the Senate, who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, in coordination with the ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
(3)
Deadline for appointment
All appointments to the Task Force shall be made not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(4)
Chair
The Speaker shall designate one Member to serve as chair of the Task Force.
(5)
Vacancies
Any vacancy in the Task Force shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(6)
Status update
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall provide a status update to the House of Representatives and the Senate that includes—
(A)
information the Task Force has collected; and
(B)
a discussion on matters that the chairman of the Task Force deems urgent for consideration by Congress.
(7)
Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall issue a report of its findings to the House of Representatives and the Senate regarding—
(A)
the economic and societal consequences (through statistical data and other metrics) that come with political disenfranchisement of United States citizens in territories of the United States;
(B)
impediments to full and equal voting rights for United States citizens who are residents of territories of the United States in Federal elections, including the election of the President and Vice President of the United States;
(C)
impediments to full and equal voting representation in the House of Representatives for United States citizens who are residents of territories of the United States;
(D)
recommended changes that, if adopted, would allow for full and equal voting rights for United States citizens who are residents of territories of the United States in Federal elections, including the election of the President and Vice President of the United States;
(E)
recommended changes that, if adopted, would allow for full and equal voting representation in the House of Representatives for United States citizens who are residents of territories of the United States; and
(F)
additional information the Task Force deems appropriate.
(8)
Consensus views
To the greatest extent practicable, the report issued under paragraph (7) shall reflect the shared views of all 15 Members, except that the report may contain dissenting views.
(9)
Hearings and sessions
The Task Force may, for the purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the Task Force considers appropriate.
(10)
Stakeholder participation
In carrying out its duties, the Task Force shall consult with the governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands.
(11)
Resources
The Task Force shall carry out its duties by utilizing existing facilities, services, and staff of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
(12)
Termination
The Task Force shall terminate upon issuing the report required under paragraph (7).
