1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Countering Russian Innovation and Safeguarding Individual Scientists Act of 2025
or the
CRISIS Act of 2025
.
2.
Special immigrant status for certain Russian nationals
(a)
In general
Subject to subsection (e), the Secretary of Homeland Security, or, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of State in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may provide an alien described in subsection (b) with the status of a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)
) if the alien—
(1)
submits a classification petition under section 204(a)(1)(G)(i) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(G)(i)
);
(2)
is otherwise eligible to receive and immigrant visa;
(3)
is otherwise admissible to the United States for permanent residence; and
(4)
clears a background check and appropriate screening, as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security and in accordance with subsection (d).
(b)
Aliens described
(1)
Principal alien
An alien is described in this subsection if the alien—
(A)
is a national of Russia;
(B)
has earned a doctoral degree in the United States or an equivalent foreign degree in a field involving science, technology, engineering, or mathematics; and
(C)
is seeking admission to engage in work in the United States in such a field.
(2)
Spouse or child
An alien is described in this subparagraph if the alien—
(A)
is the spouse or child of the a principal alien described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
is accompanying or following to join the principal alien in the United States.
(c)
Processing and numerical limitations
(1)
In general
The total number of aliens described under subsection (b) who may be provided special immigrant status under this section may not exceed 3,000 per year for each of the fiscal years 2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029.
(2)
Processing
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, to the extent practicable, process petitions described in subsection (a) not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security receives all required documentation and information to render a decision on such petition.
(3)
Numerical limitations
Aliens admitted to the United States pursuant to subsection (a) shall be exempt from the numerical limitations described in sections 201, 202, and 203 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1151
, 1152, and 1153).
(d)
Interview and vetting requirements
(1)
Vetting requirements
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish vetting requirements for applicants seeking special immigrant status under this section that are equivalent to the vetting requirements for refugees admitted to the United States through the United States Refugee Admissions Program, including an interview.
(2)
Record requirements
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall maintain records that contain, for each applicant under this section for the duration of the pendency of their application for special immigrant status—
(A)
personal biographic information, including name and date of birth;
(B)
biometric information;
(C)
any criminal conviction occurring after the date on which the applicant entered the United States; and
(D)
the history of the United States Government vetting to which the applicant has submitted, including whether the individual has undergone in-person vetting.
(3)
Rule of Construction
Nothing in this subsection may be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security to maintain records in accordance with any other provision of law.
(e)
Termination
The authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security to admit aliens to the United States pursuant to subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is the last day of the fourth full fiscal year after the date of enactment of this Act, except that petitions under subsection (a) that are approved on or before such date continue to form the basis for an application for an immigrant visa under section 221 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1201
) or an application for adjustment of status under section 245 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1255
) after such date.
(f)
Definition
The term
field involving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics
includes advanced computing, advanced engineering materials, advanced gas turbine engine technologies, advanced manufacturing, advanced and networked sensing and signature management, advanced nuclear energy technologies, advanced particle accelerator and detector technologies, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems and robotics, biotechnologies, communication and networking technologies, cybersecurity, directed energy, financial technologies, human-machine interfaces, hypersonics, advanced missile propulsion technologies, networked sensors and sensing, quantum information technologies, renewable energy generation and storage, semiconductors and microelectronics, and space technologies and systems.
(g)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require an alien described in subsection (b) to have an offer of employment from a United States employer to be eligible to be admitted as a special immigrant pursuant to subsection (a).
