1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Point-Access Housing Guidelines Act of 2025
.
2.
Federal guidelines for point-access block buildings
(a)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall issue guidelines to provide States, territories, Tribes, and localities with model code language, best practices, and technical guidance that could be used to facilitate the permitting of point-access block residential buildings.
(b)
Contents
When developing the guidelines under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider—
(1)
fire safety considerations, including sprinkler coverage, smoke detection, ventilation, and building egress performance;
(2)
construction costs and impacts on housing affordability, including the potential for increasing housing supply in high-cost jurisdictions;
(3)
flexibility for diverse consumer needs, including family sizes, unit configurations, and accessibility;
(4)
examples from jurisdictions that have adopted or considered single-stair codes, including States, cities, and relevant international standards;
(5)
research and model language produced by organizations focused on point-access block building design and building-code reform;
(6)
consultation with experts, including developers, architects, fire marshals, researchers, economists, housing authorities, and officials in States that have enacted or piloted single-stair reforms; and
(7)
alternative methods of compliance, incorporating options that utilize additional passive or active safety features.
(c)
Coordination with the International Code Council
The Secretary shall coordinate with the International Code Council to encourage the incorporation of provisions about point-access block buildings into the International Building Code.
(d)
Grants
The Secretary may award competitive grants to eligible entities to implement pilot projects that evaluate, demonstrate, or validate the safety, feasibility, or cost-effectiveness of point-access block residential buildings.
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to preempt a State or local building code.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Point-access block building
The term
point-access block building
means a Group R–2 occupancy residential structure, as such term is defined by the International Building Code, in which a single internal stairway provides access and egress for all dwelling units in a building that is not greater than five stories in height.
(2)
Eligible entities
The term
eligible entity
means a State, unit of local government, Tribal government, public housing agency, nonprofit housing or community development organization, private developer or construction firm, qualified design or engineering firm, academic or research institution, or any partnership or consortium composed of 2 or more such entities.
