1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Parkway Safety and Reinvestment Act
.
2.
Speed safety cameras in the National Park System
(a)
Citation authority
Subject to subsection (d), if a vehicle is recorded by a speed safety camera while being operated in violation of an applicable traffic regulation for a covered highway, the Secretary may, with respect to the responsible party—
(1)
issue a citation; and
(2)
after providing the responsible party with notice and opportunity for a hearing on the record, assess a civil penalty.
(b)
Maintenance and construction purposes
Notwithstanding section 1402 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (
34 U.S.C. 20101
), the Secretary may collect and expend, without subsequent appropriation, any revenues obtained by the Federal Government from speed safety camera citations issued pursuant to subparagraph (a) for—
(1)
the construction and maintenance of the covered highways and parking facilities of the unit of the National Park System in which the citation was issued; and
(2)
the installation, repair, and maintenance of speed safety cameras.
(c)
Authorization To enter into agreements
In carrying out this Act, the Secretary may enter into a contract or other appropriate agreement with a person for the purposes of installing, repairing, maintaining, or replacing speed safety cameras.
(d)
State law
In carrying out this Act, the Secretary may only use a speed safety camera in accordance with the State law of the State in which the applicable portion of covered highway is located.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered highway
The term
covered highway
means a highway—
(A)
administered by the Secretary of the Interior; and
(B)
located within a unit of the National Park System.
(2)
Highway
The term
highway
has the meaning given the term in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 101(a)(11) of title 23, United States Code.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(4)
Speed safety camera
The term
speed safety camera
means a camera that captures a still or moving image of a vehicle for the purpose of traffic enforcement, and does not include handheld radar and other devices operated by law enforcement officers to make an on-the-scene traffic stop, issue a traffic citation, or other enforcement action at the time of the violation.
(5)
Speed safety camera citation
The term
speed safety camera citation
means a traffic citation processed by an automated traffic enforcement system owned or operated by the National Park Service for a traffic violation occurring on the covered highway.
(6)
State
The term
State
has the meaning given such term in section 31 of title 18, United States Code.
