1.
Smoke and carbon monoxide detectors required
(a)
Requirement
No person may rent or offer for rent, or facilitate the rental of, a short-term rental unless such short-term rental is equipped with a smoke detector and a carbon monoxide detector.
(b)
Regulations
The Federal Trade Commission may promulgate, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
(c)
Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission
(1)
Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be treated as a violation of a regulation under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)
) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
(2)
Powers of Commission
The Federal Trade Commission shall enforce this section and the regulations promulgated under this section in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the
Federal Trade Commission Act
(
15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
) were incorporated into and made a part of this section. Any person who violates this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
(d)
Effective date
Subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered services
The term
covered services
—
(A)
means the temporary provision of a room, building, or other lodging facility; and
(B)
does not include the provision of a meeting room, banquet services, or catering services.
(2)
Short-term rental
The term
short-term rental
means a property, including a single-family dwelling or a unit in a condominium, cooperative, or time-share, that provides covered services (either with respect to the entire property or a part of the property)—
(A)
to the general public;
(B)
in exchange for a fee;
(C)
for periods shorter than 30 consecutive days; and
(D)
promoted, advertised, or marketed in interstate commerce or sold in interstate commerce.
