1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
College Oversight and Legal Updates Mandating Bias Investigations and Accountability Act of 2025
or the
COLUMBIA Act of 2025
.
2.
Antisemitism monitors
(a)
Authority
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall establish a program to appoint independent, third-party, antisemitism monitors to monitor institutions of higher education that the Secretary has determined, based on data received from the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Education, have a high incidence of antisemitic activity and that receive funds under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.
). The Secretary shall develop an antisemitism monitorship agreement, to be entered into by an antisemitism monitor and an institution of higher education, that designates the terms and conditions of the monitorship and that requires the institution of higher education to provide for the reasonable expenses of the antisemitism monitor.
(b)
Duties of antisemitism monitor
An antisemitism monitor appointed to an institution of higher education by the Secretary of Education shall—
(1)
operate under the antisemitism monitorship agreement developed by the Secretary and entered into with the institution of higher education;
(2)
provide quarterly reports, which shall be made publicly available and posted on the website of the institution of higher education and the Department of Education, evaluating the progress that the institution has made toward combating antisemitism on campus; and
(3)
provide an annual report to Congress, the Secretary of Education, State and local governments, as needed, and the institution of higher education, that includes recommendations of actions, policies, and sanctions, as appropriate, to prevent and reduce antisemitism at the institution.
(c)
Definition of institution of higher education
In this section, the term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1002
).
