1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Evan Anzoo Memorial Act
.
2.
Report
(a)
Final report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and make available on a public website, a report on the following:
(1)
An estimate of the number of deaths in 2025 due to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) stop work order, discontinuation of USAID services, and shuttering of USAID.
(2)
An estimate of the number of anticipated future deaths over 5 years from the initial USAID stop work order, the discontinuation of USAID services, and shuttering of USAID due to the lack of access to services that USAID previously provided.
(3)
A determination whether any of the following individuals died as a result of the initial USAID stop work order, the discontinuation of USAID services, or the shuttering of USAID:
(A)
Evan Anzoo, 5, South Sudan, died after losing access to USAID-provided HIV/AIDs treatment.
(B)
Pe Kau Lau, 71, Thailand, died after losing access to USAID-provided oxygen supply.
(C)
Jibia Tusifu, 10, Democratic Republic of Congo, died after losing access to USAID-provided malaria treatments.
(D)
Daniella Kalenga, 8, Uganda, died after losing access to USAID-provided malaria treatments.
(E)
Suza Kenyaba, 5, Democratic Republic of Congo, died after losing access to USAID-provided malaria treatments.
(F)
Peter Donde, 10, South Sudan, died after losing access to USAID-provided HIV/AIDs treatment.
(G)
Achol Deng, 8, South Sudan, died after losing access to USAID-provided HIV/AIDs treatment.
(H)
Gilbert Kayombo, 7, Democratic Republic of Congo, died after losing access to USAID-provided HIV/AIDs treatment.
(I)
Martha Juan, 25, South Sudan, died after losing access to USAID-provided antiretroviral drugs.
(J)
Viola Kiden, 28, South Sudan, died after losing access to USAID-provided antiretroviral drugs.
(4)
A list of the names of any other known individuals determined to have died as a result of initial USAID stop work order, the discontinuation of USAID services, or the shuttering of USAID.
(b)
Interim update
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall update the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate on the findings, as of the date of such update, of the Comptroller General with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a).
