1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
SBIR Commercialization Improvement Act
.
2.
Phase III award education
Section 9(r) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(r)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Workforce training
(A)
In general
The Administrator, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator of the General Services Administration, and the head of any such other Federal agency that the Administrator determines appropriate, shall establish training activities for contracting officers and agency acquisition workforce of Federal agencies to ensure that such individuals are fully aware of all aspects of Phase III acquisitions under the SBIR and STTR programs, as applicable.
(B)
Training topics
The training activities required under subparagraph (A) shall include training on—
(i)
the missions, goals, and authorities of the SBIR and STTR programs;
(ii)
the use of Phase III agreement;
(iii)
Phase III data rights; and
(iv)
the execution of Phase III sole source award contracts.
(C)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Agency acquisition workforce
The term
agency acquisition workforce
means the employees of a Federal agency that have procurement or acquisition responsibilities, including—
(I)
employees described in section 1703 of title 41, United States Code; and
(II)
individuals that are part of the acquisition workforce (as such term is defined in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code).
(ii)
Phase III acquisition
The term
Phase III acquisition
means the acquisition of a good or service from a participant in Phase III that such participant has commercialized or is seeking to commercialize as such a participant.
.
3.
Phase III improvements
(a)
Procurement center representative directives
(1)
In general
Section 9(j)(4) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(j)(4)
) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, and advocate for the maximum practicable use and transition of products, services, and technologies developed under SBIR or STTR programs to Phase III by means of Phase III awards to small business concerns
.
(2)
Modification deadline
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall modify the policy directives issues pursuant to subsection (j) of section 9 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(j)
) in accordance with paragraph (4) of such subsection, as amended by paragraph (1).
(b)
Phase III award simplification
Section 9(r)(4) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638(r)(4)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
(C)
report to the Administrator on the actions taken by the Federal agency or Federal prime contractor to develop simplified and standardized procedures and model contracts for Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III SBIR awards; and
(D)
shall issue standardized solicitation provisions and contract clauses which provide clear guidance on the information that small business concerns participating in SBIR or STTR programs can be expected to provide as part of market research or as part of a proposal by such small business concern to establish eligibility for Phase III awards.
.
4.
Phase III and sole-source awards
Section 9(r) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 638
) is amended—
(1)
in the heading, by inserting
Sole Source and Other
after
Justification for
; and
(2)
in the heading for paragraph (4), by inserting
sole source and other
after
justification for
.
