1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Allocation and Improvement of Regional Fleets Act
or the
FAIR Fleets Act
.
2.
Modernization and fair distribution of Postal Service fleet
(a)
Postal policy
Section 101 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(h)
The Postal Service shall conduct an ongoing comprehensive assessment of Postal Service fleet vehicle distribution, implement a strategic plan to increase vehicle availability in underserved areas and all parts of the country, and modernize the fleet with fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles as soon as practicable.
.
(b)
Annual report
Section 403 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
(1)
Not later than December 31 of each year, the Postal Service shall submit an annual report to Congress and the Comptroller General on the distribution of the Postal Service fleet. Such report shall include detailed information on the following:
(A)
The current distribution of fleet vehicles by State and postal region.
(B)
Steps taken to enhance vehicle distribution in underserved areas.
(C)
Recommendations for further improvements.
(2)
For the purposes of this subsection and section 101(h)—
(A)
the term
rural area
is any territory, population, or housing unit located outside of urbanized areas and urban clusters (as those terms are defined by the Bureau of the Census); and
(B)
the term
underserved area
means any—
(i)
rural area;
(ii)
postal region of the Nation where at least 50 percent of Postal Service fleet vehicles are beyond their intended service life;
(iii)
county with limited postal facilities and mail delivery delays that exceed the national average of delays by at least 20 percent;
(iv)
urban neighborhood (as that term is defined by the Bureau of the Census) with a poverty rate above 20 percent; or
(v)
indigenous and Tribal lands.
.
(c)
Application
The amendments made by this section shall take effect beginning on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
