1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
NIH Implementing a Maternal health and PRegnancy Outcomes Vision for Everyone
or the
NIH IMPROVE Act
.
2.
IMPROVE Initiative
Part B of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 284 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
409K.
IMPROVE initiative
(a)
In general
The Director of NIH shall continue to carry out a program to improve maternal health outcomes, to be known as the Implementing a Maternal health and PRegnancy Outcomes Vision for Everyone Initiative or the
IMPROVE Initiative
(referred to in this section as the
Initiative
).
(b)
Objectives
The Initiative shall—
(1)
advance research to—
(A)
reduce preventable causes of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity;
(B)
reduce health disparities related to maternal health outcomes, including such disparities associated with populations with disproportionately high rates of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity relative to the national rate; and
(C)
improve health for pregnant and postpartum women before, during, and after pregnancy;
(2)
use an integrated approach to understand the factors, including biological, behavioral, and other factors, that affect maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity by building an evidence base for improved outcomes in specific regions of the United States; and
(3)
target health disparities associated with maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity by—
(A)
implementing and evaluating community-based interventions for disproportionately affected women; and
(B)
identifying risk factors and the underlying biological mechanisms associated with leading causes of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity in the United States.
(c)
Implementation
The Director of NIH may award grants or enter into contracts, cooperative agreements, or other transactions to carry out this section.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $73,400,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2031.
.
