1.
Confidentiality of Department of Housing and Urban Development records
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding section 552a(b)(7) of title 5, United States Code, or any other law, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereafter referred to as the
Secretary
) may not, for the purposes of immigration enforcement, disclose any record which is contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person, or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request made in a language of proficiency by, or with the prior consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, regardless of the immigration status of such individual.
(b)
Public housing agencies
The Secretary may not compel a public housing agency to disclose any record as described in subsection (a).
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report which contains—
(1)
a timeline for how the Secretary will comply with this Act;
(2)
a confirmation that the records described in this Act have been secured;
(3)
a description of how records described in subsection (a) have been shared before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(4)
a description of how the Secretary will ensure compliance with this Act.
(d)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given such term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Immigration enforcement
The term
immigration enforcement
means, with respect to an individual with an alleged immigration violation, any law enforcement action pursuant to title 8, United States Code.
(3)
Public housing agency
The term
public housing agency
has the meaning given the term in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (
42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)
).
(4)
Record
The term
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or a public housing agency.
(5)
System of records
The term
system of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or a public housing agency from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to an individual.
