1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Critical Infrastructure Security Act
.
2.
Review of and reporting on certain facilities and property by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States
(a)
Modification to covered transactions
Section 721(a)(4)(B)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(a)(4)(B)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA)) is amended—
(1)
by inserting
(including facilities or property of the intelligence community or of a National Laboratory (as defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 15801
))) and
after
United States Government
; and
(2)
by inserting
or reasons relating to critical infrastructure (including critical infrastructure relating to drinking water)
after
national security
.
(b)
Review and reports
Section 721(m) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4565(m)(2)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following:
(L)
A list of all notices and declarations filed and all reviews or investigations of covered transactions completed during the period relating to facilities and property of the United States Government determined to be sensitive for reasons relating to national security or reasons relating to contain critical infrastructure for purposes of subsection (a)(4)(B)(ii).
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
(4)
Annual review of list of facilities and property
Not later than January 31 of each year, each member of the Committee shall—
(A)
review a list of the facilities and property of the agency represented by that member that are sensitive for reasons relating to national security or reasons relating to critical infrastructure for purposes of subsection (a)(4)(B)(ii); and
(B)
submit to the chairperson a report on such review that has been approved by an Assistant Secretary or equivalent official of such agency, which shall include any recommended updates or revisions to the list.
(5)
Briefing
Upon request from any Member of Congress specified in subsection (b)(3)(C)(iii), the chairperson shall provide a classified briefing to such Member, and staff of such Member with appropriate security clearances, regarding the list of facilities or property described in paragraph (4).
.
