1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Olive Oil Standards Act
.
2.
Standards of identify and grade standards for olive oil
(a)
Establishment of standards of identify
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
), shall establish a standard of identify under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 341
) for individual grades of olive oil.
(b)
Establishment of grade standards
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish for commercial producers, bottlers, and marketers in the United States a grade standard for individual olive oil and olive-pomace oil grades.
(2)
Contents
The grade standards shall include the following:
(A)
Quality and purity parameters for the following olive oil and olive-pomace oil grades:
(i)
Extra virgin olive oil.
(ii)
Virgin olive oil.
(iii)
Olive oil.
(iv)
Refined olive oil.
(v)
Lampante olive oil.
(vi)
Olive-pomace oil.
(vii)
Refined olive-pomace oil.
(viii)
Crude olive-pomace oil.
(B)
Methods of analysis, according to American Oil Chemist Society, International Organization for Standardization, or International Olive Oil Council accreditation methods, to determine the characteristics of olive oils and olive-pomace oils.
(C)
Mandatory labeling requirements that are—
(i)
consistent with the establishment of grade standards under this paragraph; and
(ii)
in compliance with the requirements of subchapters A, B, D, E, and F of part 101 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).
(3)
Special rules
(A)
Extra virgin olive oil
The quality parameters developed for extra virgin olive oil under paragraph (2)(A)(i) shall include pyropheophytin a (PPP) and 1,2 diacylglycerols (DAG) parameters.
(B)
Labeling
In developing labeling standards under paragraph (2)(C), the Secretary shall ensure that—
(i)
the name of the product is consistent with the stated grade; and
(ii)
the descriptions of the product on the package avoid inappropriate and misleading messages.
(c)
Report to Congress
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the actions taken under this section.
