1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Affordable Housing Resident Services Act
.
2.
Affordable housing resident services grant program
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Administration of Children and Families (in this Act referred to as the
Director
), shall annually, as part of the Services Research Demonstration program, award grants on a competitive basis to eligible recipients as described in subsection (b).
(b)
Eligible recipients
(1)
In general
A grant under this section may only be made only to—
(A)
an entity that has demonstrated experience and capacity in owning, managing, and operating qualified properties or delivering resident supportive services within qualified properties; or
(B)
a tribe or tribal organization.
(2)
Priority
The Director shall give priority to mission-driven, non-profit entities when awarding grants under this section.
(c)
Terms of grant
Grants awarded under this section shall be funded for a term of 5 years.
(d)
Voluntary services
An entity that receives a grant under this section may not require any resident to accept any services provided by such entity using such grant amounts.
(e)
Eligible activities
(1)
In general
An eligible recipient may use not more than 75 percent of any amount awarded under this section to cover the costs of activities undertaken by a service coordinator—
(A)
increasing the access of residents to health services, including mental health services;
(B)
providing educational opportunities for residents, including after-school programming, mentoring, tutoring, college and career readiness, and life skills training;
(C)
enhancing the economic self-sufficiency of residents by providing financial literacy, housing stability, and homeownership opportunities or connecting residents with housing counselors approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to promote these services;
(D)
assisting older adults to enable them to age in place, including by connecting them with services and supports to facilitate the ability to age in community, home modifications, accessibility upgrades, as well as home- and community-based services;
(E)
enabling residents with disabilities to live independently and in integrated settings, including by providing home-and community-based services;
(F)
assisting residents to receive public benefits for which they are eligible; and
(G)
an additional activity as determined appropriate by the Director.
(2)
Use of amounts for salary, benefits, and training
Not less than 25 percent of any amounts awarded to an eligible recipient under this section shall be by such eligible recipient for salary, benefits, and training for service coordinators.
(f)
Qualified properties
For purposes of this section, the term
qualified property
means a property—
(1)
assisted under—
(A)
the low-income housing tax credit under
section 42
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(B)
the project-based rental assistance programs under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, including units assisted by project-based vouchers under section 8(o)(13) of such Act;
(C)
the program under section 236 of the National Housing Act;
(D)
the below-market interest rate mortgage program under section 22(d)(3) of the National Housing Act;
(E)
the rural rental housing program under section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949;
(F)
a program under title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 11361 et seq.
), but only permanent supportive housing projects subsidized under such programs;
(G)
section 1131 of
Public Law 110–289
;
(H)
the supportive housing for the elderly program under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959;
(I)
the supportive housing program for persons with disabilities under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act;
(J)
the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS under subtitle D of title VIII of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (
42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.
);
(K)
affordable housing units owned by public housing agencies that are not assisted under the Housing Act of 1937; or
(L)
properties funded through, or who work in partnership with programs funded through, a community services block grant; or
(2)
otherwise determined qualified by the Director.
(g)
Selection criteria
Grants shall be awarded on a competitive basis, based on the following selection criteria:
(1)
The extent to which a grant may enable an applicant to provide new types of enriched services, to provide services to more residents, or provide more effective services to residents.
(2)
The extent to which an applicant can demonstrate the likelihood of achieving objective outcomes for its residents that are described in the application.
(3)
The extent of experience with respect to eligible activities and a demonstrable track record in providing resident services.
(4)
The extent of relationships and partnerships an applicant has with localities, non-profits, continuums of care, federally qualified health centers (as defined in section 861 of the Social Security Act), and other health care providers that provide services or facilitate the provision of services that improve outcomes for residents.
(5)
Any experience the applicant has with respect to development, ownership, and management of qualified properties for low-income families, seniors, and disabled persons.
(6)
The selection of a diverse range of grantees, including minority business enterprises and owners of properties located in rural areas, persistent poverty areas, colonias, the United States territories, and other underserved areas.
(h)
Coordination
The Director shall coordinate with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development as the Director determines appropriate.
(i)
Use of amounts
(1)
In general
The Director may reserve not more than 5 percent of any amounts appropriated to carry out this section for technical assistance activities which support grantees under this program.
(2)
Capacity building
A recipient of grant funds under this section may reserve not more than 1 percent of amounts from each grant awarded for use to develop the capacity of the grantee associated with such grant.
(3)
Caseworker Capacity
Amounts awarded to a grantee may be used by such grantee to finance the hiring of caseworkers to assist in carrying out eligible activities.
(j)
Program evaluation and outcomes
Each year, each grantee that receives amounts under this Act shall submit to the Director, and the Director shall post on a on a publicly accessible website, a description of each activity carried out by such grantee using amounts provided and the impact of such activity.
