118 SRES 742 IS: Expressing the sense of the Senate that President Joseph R. Biden must dismiss Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg from his employment at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
U.S. Senate
2024-06-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 742
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 20, 2024
Ms. Ernst
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the Senate that President Joseph R. Biden must dismiss Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg from his employment at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Whereas, on November 13, 2023, the Wall Street Journal published an expose entitled
Strip Clubs, Lewd Photos and a Boozy Hotel: The Toxic Atmosphere at Bank Regulator FDIC
detailing the extremely toxic, misogynistic, workplace culture rife with sexual harassment and other serious misconduct at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (referred to in this preamble as
FDIC
);
Whereas, on November 16, 2023, the Wall Street Journal published a second expose entitled
FDIC Chair, Known for Bad Temper, Ignored Bad Behavior in Workplace
;
Whereas, following the public revelation of this scandal, the FDIC enlisted a third-party fact-finding team to investigate the workplace culture of the FDIC;
Whereas the FDIC published the report of the third-party investigators on May 7, 2024;
Whereas the report of the third-party investigators found that, under the leadership of Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg,
the FDIC has failed to provide a workplace safe from sexual harassment, discrimination, and other interpersonal misconduct
;
Whereas, under the leadership of Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg, FDIC employees fear retaliation and do not trust the FDIC to investigate or address allegations of improper workplace conduct;
Whereas investigators determined not a single FDIC employee faced serious discipline after being found to have engaged in workplace misconduct;
Whereas investigators determined Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg routinely acts with inappropriate anger and antagonism toward his employees;
Whereas reports indicate Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg and his leadership team have been directly involved in high-level examples of sexism, harassment, and discrimination and failed to properly discipline those individuals responsible;
Whereas investigators determined the anger and antagonism of Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg
may hinder his ability to establish trust and confidence in leading meaningful culture change, and so too may his apparent inability or unwillingness to recognize how others experience certain difficult interactions with him
; and
Whereas investigators determined that for the current challenges plaguing the FDIC to be overcome, there must be a change in leadership: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
condemns those employees of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (referred to in this resolution as
FDIC
), known and unknown, who turned the FDIC workplace culture toxic or looked the other way while others did so;
(2)
demands that President Joseph R. Biden dismiss Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg from employment at the FDIC immediately, as he no longer holds the confidence of the Senate or of the people of the United States; and
(3)
calls on those individuals remaining in FDIC leadership positions to take all appropriate steps to investigate all allegations of criminality and impropriety to hold bad actors accountable for their actions.
