118 SRES 241 ATS: Commending and congratulating the North Carolina Central University football team for winning the 2022 Historically Black Colleges and Universities National Football Championship in the 2022 Celebration Bowl.
U.S. Senate
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 241
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 7, 2023
Mr. Tillis
(for himself and
Mr. Budd
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Commending and congratulating the North Carolina Central University football team for winning the 2022 Historically Black Colleges and Universities National Football Championship in the 2022 Celebration Bowl.
Whereas the Celebration Bowl is the event in which the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I’s 2 most prestigious Historically Black Colleges and Universities (referred to in this preamble as
HBCUs
) conferences compete for the National Championship;
Whereas the North Carolina Central University Eagles claimed the 2022 Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference Championship, and the Jackson State University Tigers won the Southwestern Athletic Conference Championship;
Whereas, on Saturday, December 17th, 2022, the North Carolina Central University Eagles defeated Jackson State University with a 41 to 34 overtime victory at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia;
Whereas this is the fourth HBCU Football Championship won by North Carolina Central University, following titles won in 1954, 2005, and 2006;
Whereas North Carolina Central University Head Coach and alumnus Trei Oliver has achieved 5 conference championships and 3 Black College Football National Titles in his 20 years of coaching;
Whereas North Carolina Central University quarterback Davius Richard and defensive back Khalil Baker were named the Most Valuable Players of the 2022 Celebration Bowl;
Whereas quarterback Davius Richard sealed victory for the Eagles with a rushing touchdown and a successful extra point attempt by placekicker Adrian Olivo in overtime; and
Whereas the 2022 Eagles are the third roster in North Carolina Central University football history to reach double-figure victories with 10 wins and 2 losses in a season: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commends the North Carolina Central University football team for winning the 2022 Celebration Bowl;
(2)
congratulates the fans, students, and faculty of North Carolina Central University; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the Chancellor of North Carolina Central University, Dr. Johnson O. Akinleye;
(B)
the Provost of North Carolina Central University, Dr. David H. Jackson; and
(C)
the Head Coach of the North Carolina Central University football team, Trei Oliver.
