118 SRES 616 IS: Condemning the treatment of Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu by the Government of Azerbaijan and urging his immediate release, and for other purposes.
U.S. Senate
2024-03-22
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 616
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 22, 2024
Mr. Tillis
(for himself,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr. Cassidy
,
Mr. Kaine
, and
Mr. Fetterman
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Condemning the treatment of Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu by the Government of Azerbaijan and urging his immediate release, and for other purposes.
Whereas Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu, a respected academic and economist, and his wife, Irada Bayramova, were arrested by Azerbaijani authorities on July 23, 2023, and severely beaten while in police custody;
Whereas Dr. Ibadoghlu was dubiously accused by Azerbaijani authorities of multiple criminal acts without evidence;
Whereas Dr. Ibadoghlu remains imprisoned at the Baku Detention Center in extremely poor conditions while awaiting trial;
Whereas Dr. Ibadoghlu’s health has deteriorated significantly since his initial arrest, and he has not received adequate medical treatment for his medical condition;
Whereas Dr. Ibadoghlu has been repeatedly denied access to his legal counsel and a fair trial while in custody;
Whereas the Department of State and the United States Embassy in Baku, along with United States academic institutions and respected international organizations, have expressed deep concerns regarding Dr. Ibadoghlu’s health and have demanded his immediate release;
Whereas Azerbaijan’s ties with the community of democracies has been undermined by a troubling record of wrongfully detaining those involved in human rights, journalism, and peaceful freedom of expression, including Bakhtiyar Hajiyev, Avaz Zeynalli, and Elchin Sadigov;
Whereas the wrongful detention of Dr. Ibadoghlu is a serious affront to human rights and academic freedom: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
condemns—
(A)
the treatment of Dr. Ibadoghlu by the Government of Azerbaijan;
(B)
such government's practice of wrongful detention; and
(C)
such government's suppression of academic freedom;
(2)
calls for the immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners in Azerbaijan, including Dr. Ibadoghlu; and
(3)
urges the Secretary of State to continue prioritizing Dr. Ibadoghlu’s well-being and release in all engagements with the Government of Azerbaijan.
