118 SRES 908 IS: Expressing support for the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness Month.
U.S. Senate
2024-11-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
II
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 908
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 21, 2024
Mr. Young
(for himself,
Mr. Cardin
, and
Mr. Braun
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness Month.
Whereas stomach cancer, also known as gastric cancer, is difficult to detect in the early stages of the disease due to the late onset of symptoms, which lowers survival rates;
Whereas stomach cancer occurs when cancer cells develop in the lining of the stomach;
Whereas stomach cancer is the fifth most commonly diagnosed type of cancer worldwide;
Whereas, in 2024, an estimated—
(1)
26,890 cases of stomach cancer will be diagnosed in the United States; and
(2)
10,880 individuals in the United States will die from stomach cancer;
Whereas the estimated 5-year survival rate for stomach cancer is only 36.4 percent, and the 5-year survival rate is just 7 percent when diagnosed at a late, or distant, stage;
Whereas early-onset gastric cancer, gastric cancer presenting at the age of 45 or younger, appears to be rising for reasons that are unclear;
Whereas helicobacter pylori has been identified as a risk factor for stomach cancer that often goes undetected and untreated;
Whereas, in the United States, there are disparities in stomach cancer incidence and mortality among racial and ethnic minorities;
Whereas a diagnosis of stomach cancer is often delayed, because stomach cancer usually does not have symptoms early on, making it hard to detect;
Whereas increased awareness of, and education about, stomach cancer, including risk factors and symptoms, among patients and health care providers could improve timely diagnosis of stomach cancer;
Whereas more research into prevention, early detection, and treatment for stomach cancer is needed; and
Whereas November 2024 is an appropriate month to observe Stomach Cancer Awareness Month: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness Month;
(2)
supports efforts to increase awareness of, and education about, stomach cancer among health care providers and the general public of the United States;
(3)
recognizes the need for additional research to understand stomach cancer risk factors, as well as prevention, early detection, and treatment for stomach cancer; and
(4)
encourages States, territories, and localities of the United States to support the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness Month.
