118 SRES 733 IS: Honoring the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch.
U.S. Senate
2024-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 733
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 13, 2024
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
(for herself,
Mrs. Fischer
,
Mr. Ricketts
,
Mr. Daines
,
Ms. Lummis
, and
Mr. Barrasso
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Honoring the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch.
Whereas Patrick Gene Gottsch was born on June 3, 1953, in Elkhorn, Nebraska;
Whereas Mr. Gottsch was raised on his family’s farm and cattle operation, which instilled in him the values of rural America;
Whereas Mr. Gottsch obtained a wide array of career experiences that enabled him to be a trailblazer in the rural and agricultural programming space;
Whereas Mr. Gottsch worked as a commodity broker on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, in the home satellite dish industry, and as Director of Sales for the Superior Livestock Auction in the Fort Worth Stockyards;
Whereas Mr. Gottsch launched Rural Free Delivery Television (RFD–TV) in 2002;
Whereas Mr. Gottsch was the founder and president of Rural Media Group, Inc., which, in addition to RFD–TV, grew to consist of RFD–TV The Magazine, RFD HD, RURAL TV, RURAL RADIO, and The Cowboy Channel;
Whereas millions of individuals in the United States have benefitted from Mr. Gottsch’s innovative approach to educating the populace on rural and agricultural issues through the use of television and other mediums; and
Whereas Mr. Gottsch’s work to represent farmers, ranchers, and rural America through television was unprecedented and has left an indelible mark on the hearts of millions of individuals in the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
honors the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch, particularly the devotion of Mr. Gottsch—
(A)
to rural America;
(B)
to espousing the values of rural America through agricultural and rural programming; and
(C)
to advocating for a greater understanding of the importance of rural America to the economy, culture, and progress of the nation;
(2)
extends its gratitude to Mr. Gottsch for a life well-lived, and will continue to remember his legacy; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the family of Mr. Gottsch.
