118 SRES 150 ATS: Honoring the memories of the victims of the senseless attack at the Covenant School on March 27, 2023.
U.S. Senate
2023-03-30
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 150
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 30, 2023
Mrs. Blackburn
(for herself and
Mr. Hagerty
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Honoring the memories of the victims of the senseless attack at the Covenant School on March 27, 2023.
Whereas, on March 27, 2023, a mass shooting that claimed the lives of 6 teachers and students took place at the Covenant School in Nashville, Tennessee;
Whereas these victims included 9-year-old students, Evelyn Dieckhaus, William Kinney, and Hallie Scruggs, head of the school Dr. Katherine Koonce, custodian Mike Hill, and substitute teacher Cynthia Peak;
Whereas the people of Tennessee and the United States continue to pray for the individuals who were affected by this unspeakable evil;
Whereas the Nashville community has shown strength, compassion, and unity; and
Whereas officers of the Nashville Police Department and other first responders demonstrated incredible bravery preventing the loss of additional life: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
honors the memories of the victims of the senseless and cowardly attack at the Covenant School on March 27, 2023, and offers heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies to the families, loved ones, friends, and church family of the victims;
(2)
recognizes the strength and resilience of the Covenant School community, the City of Nashville, and the State of Tennessee;
(3)
expresses deep gratitude to the first responders, including police officers, emergency medical personnel, fire department officials, and local, State, and Federal agents and officers, including Nashville Police Chief John Drake, whose incredible bravery prevented the loss of additional life; and
(4)
applauds the heroism displayed by the officers, including officers Rex Engelbert and Michael Collazo, who willingly ran toward danger, putting their lives on the line to save others.
