118 SRES 882 ATS: Designating the week of September 23 through September 27, 2024, as “National Clean Energy Week”.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 882
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 25, 2024
Ms. Collins
(for herself,
Ms. Cantwell
,
Mr. Romney
,
Mr. Reed
,
Mr. Whitehouse
,
Ms. Warren
,
Mr. Warnock
,
Ms. Smith
,
Mr. Coons
,
Mr. Tillis
,
Mrs. Shaheen
,
Mr. Graham
,
Mr. King
,
Mr. Cassidy
,
Mrs. Capito
, and
Mr. Hickenlooper
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating the week of September 23 through September 27, 2024, as
National Clean Energy Week
.
Whereas, across the United States, clean and readily abundant forms of energy are powering more homes and businesses than ever before;
Whereas clean energy generation is readily available from zero- and low-emissions sources;
Whereas the clean energy sector is a growing part of the economy and has been a key driver of economic growth in the United States in recent years;
Whereas technological innovation can further reduce costs, enhance reliability, and increase deployment of clean energy sources;
Whereas the report of the Department of Energy entitled
United States Energy & Employment Report 2024
found that, in 2023, the energy and energy efficiency sectors in the United States employed approximately 8,350,000 individuals;
Whereas the scaling of affordable and exportable clean energy is essential to reducing global emissions;
Whereas clean energy jobs contribute to the growth of local economies; and
Whereas innovative clean energy solutions and clean energy jobs are part of the energy future of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates the week of September 23 through September 27, 2024, as
National Clean Energy Week
;
(2)
encourages individuals and organizations across the United States to support commonsense solutions that address the economic, environmental, and energy needs of the United States in the 21st century;
(3)
supports reliable and affordable energy for the people of the United States; and
(4)
recognizes the role of entrepreneurs and small businesses in ensuring the leadership of the United States in the global energy marketplace and in supporting low-cost, clean, and reliable energy in the United States.
