118 SRES 321 IS: Expressing the sense of the Senate relating to nuclear power and the commitment of the Senate to embracing and promoting nuclear power as a clean baseload energy source necessary to achieve a reliable, secure, and diversified electric grid.
U.S. Senate
2023-07-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 321
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 27, 2023
Mr. Budd
(for himself,
Mr. Coons
,
Mr. Manchin
,
Mr. Brown
,
Mr. Cramer
,
Ms. Sinema
,
Mr. Ricketts
,
Mr. Tillis
,
Mr. Kelly
,
Mr. Booker
,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Crapo
,
Mr. Warner
,
Mr. Graham
, and
Mr. Whitehouse
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the Senate relating to nuclear power and the commitment of the Senate to embracing and promoting nuclear power as a clean baseload energy source necessary to achieve a reliable, secure, and diversified electric grid.
That—
(1)
in order to maintain geopolitical energy leadership, reduce carbon emissions, and enhance the energy security of the United States, the Senate is committed to embracing and promoting nuclear power as a clean baseload energy source necessary to achieve a reliable, secure, and diversified electric grid; and
(2)
it is the sense of the Senate that—
(A)
among allies and partners of the United States, nuclear energy presents an advantageous export opportunity for United States advanced manufacturing and technical expertise; and
(B)
to realize the benefits of next-generation nuclear deployment—
(i)
a robust domestic production base of low-enriched uranium and high-assay, low-enriched uranium needs to be established;
(ii)
the domestic nuclear supply chain and the associated workforce needs to be further established, and a highly trained and capable workforce of scientists, engineers, operators, regulators, and trades workers needs to be cultivated; and
(iii)
robust public-private financing mechanisms should be pursued.
