118 SRES 739 IS: Celebrating the historic anniversary of the June 24, 2022, decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization.
U.S. Senate
2024-06-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 739
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 18, 2024
Mr. Rubio
(for himself,
Mr. Tuberville
,
Mr. Lankford
,
Mr. Budd
,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
,
Mr. Mullin
,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Ricketts
,
Mr. Daines
,
Mrs. Britt
,
Mr. Hawley
,
Mrs. Fischer
,
Mr. Young
,
Mr. Lee
,
Ms. Lummis
,
Mr. Barrasso
, and
Mr. Marshall
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Celebrating the historic anniversary of the June 24, 2022, decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization.
Whereas the Declaration of Independence announces the self-evident truth that
all men are created equal
and
are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights
;
Whereas the first of those unalienable rights is the right to life;
Whereas modern science has illuminated our understanding of the humanity of unborn life;
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States committed a grave injustice in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973) (referred to in this preamble as
Roe
), by inventing a constitutional right to abortion, thereby denying a class of innocent people their right to life;
Whereas more than 63,000,000 unborn lives were lost to abortion under Roe;
Whereas, on June 24, 2022, the Supreme Court of the United States, in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, 142 S. Ct. 2228 (2022) (referred to in this preamble as
Dobbs
), corrected the grave injustice committed in Roe, by holding that
the Constitution does not confer a right to abortion
and that "Roe and Casey must be overruled, and the authority to regulate abortion must be returned to the people and their elected representatives";
Whereas many States have taken historic steps to protect unborn life since the ruling of the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs; and
Whereas many millions of people in the United States continue to press to protect unborn life and strengthen support for families charged with protecting that life: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
commemorates 2 years since the ruling of the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, 142 S. Ct. 2228 (2022) (referred to in this resolution as
Dobbs
);
(2)
celebrates the millions of lives that will be saved as a result of the ruling in Dobbs;
(3)
commits to protecting the unalienable right to life and guarding unborn lives against lethal violence;
(4)
commits to supporting families, including new and expectant mothers and their children; and
(5)
commits to proclaiming the humanity of the unborn, consistent with the findings of modern science and the unswerving demands of justice.
