1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Congressional Access to Bureaucratic Offices Act
or the
CABO Act
.
2.
Access to Federal buildings
(a)
In general
The head of each agency shall allow Members of Congress and congressional staff members to access the building that serves as the headquarters of such agency during regular business hours.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Identification
The head of each agency shall require a Member of Congress seeking access to a building described in subsection (a) to provide congressional identification.
(2)
Congressional staff
The head of each agency shall allow a congressional staff member to access a building described in subsection (a) if—
(A)
such staff member is accompanied by the Member of Congress that employs the staff member; and
(B)
such staff member provides a valid congressional staff identification badge upon seeking access to such building.
(c)
Extenuating circumstances
The requirements of subsection (a) shall apply during an extenuating circumstance and any restriction on access to a building that is imposed on the public during such a circumstance shall not apply to a Member of Congress or an applicable congressional staff member.
(d)
Exception for areas requiring security clearance
The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply to any part of a building for which a security clearance at the level of secret or higher is required for entry.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given such term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Congressional identification
The term
congressional identification
means any form of identification issued to Members by the Clerk or Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives (in the case of a Member of the House of Representatives) or by the Secretary or Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate (in the case of a Senator).
(3)
Congressional staff member
The term
congressional staff member
means a full-time staff member of the House of Representatives or the Senate.
(4)
Extenuating circumstance
The term
extenuating circumstance
means an event for which—
(A)
the President has declared an emergency pursuant to section 202 of the National Emergencies Act (
50 U.S.C. 1622
); or
(B)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services has declared an emergency pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
).
(5)
Member of Congress
The term
Member of Congress
means a Member of the House of Representatives or a Senator.
3.
Compliance with CUTGO
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act. Such Act shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated to the head of the agency.
