1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Iranian Terror Prevention Act
.
2.
Designation as FTO; imposition of sanctions
(a)
Designation as FTO
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall designate as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(a)
) each of the following:
(1)
Abu Fadl al-Abbas Brigades.
(2)
Ansarallah (otherwise known as the
Houthis
).
(3)
Badr Organization.
(4)
Fatemiyoun Brigade.
(5)
Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba.
(6)
Kata’ib al-Imam Ali.
(7)
Kata’ib Jund al-Imam.
(8)
Kata’ib Sayyad al Shuhada.
(9)
Sarayya al-Jihad.
(10)
Sarayya Khorasani.
(11)
Zainabiyoun Brigade.
(12)
Any foreign entity or organization that is an agent of, affiliated with, or owned or controlled by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
(b)
Imposition of sanctions
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall determine whether to impose the sanctions described in paragraph (3) on any organization listed under paragraph (2) or any entity or organization that is an agent, affiliate, or instrumentality, or owned or controlled by an agent, affiliate, or instrumentality of an organization listed in paragraph (2).
(2)
Organizations
The following are organizations with respect to which a sanction determination shall be made:
(A)
Abu Fadl al-Abbas Brigades.
(B)
Badr Organization.
(C)
Kata’ib al-Imam Ali.
(D)
Kata’ib Jund al-Imam.
(E)
Sarayya al-Jihad.
(F)
Sarayya Khorasani.
(3)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection are sanctions applicable with respect to a foreign person pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
(c)
Report
(1)
Secretary of State report
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall submit to Congress a report on any new entities meeting the requirements for—
(A)
designation as a foreign terrorist organization; or
(B)
imposition of sanctions with respect to a foreign person pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
(2)
Presidential report
The President shall submit to Congress a report not later than 60 days after a determination has been made under subsection (b) on whether the organizations listed under such subsection have sanctions imposed pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and shall provide a detailed explanation should any such organization not be sanctioned.
