1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Wrong Door for Veterans Act
.
2.
Amendments to and reauthorization of the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Reorganization
Subsection (b) of section 201 of the Commander John Scott Hannon Veterans Mental Health Care Improvement Act of 2019 (
Public Law 116–171
;
38 U.S.C. 1720F
) is amended, in the second sentence, by striking
Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention
and inserting
the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Clinical Services
.
(b)
Use of grant money
Such section is further amended, in subsection (c)(2)(A), by inserting
(not more than 5 percent of which may be spent on food and non-alcoholic beverages)
after
fiscal year
.
(c)
Briefing for local VAMCs
Such section is further amended, in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Briefing for local VAMCs
Not less than once per calendar quarter, the Secretary shall provide, to the appropriate personnel of each medical center of the Department located not more than 100 miles from the primary location of a grantee, a briefing about the grant program under this section in order to improve coordination between a grantee and such personnel.
.
(d)
Duration
Such section is further amended, in subsection (j), by striking
the date that is three years after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this section
and inserting
September 30, 2027
.
(e)
Emergent suicide care
Such section is further amended, in subsection (n)—
(1)
by inserting
(1)
before
When
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(2)
If the Secretary does not provide services under paragraph (1) to an eligible individual during the 72-hour period following a referral under subsection (m), such eligible individual shall be treated as eligible for emergent suicide care under section 1720J of title 38, United States Code.
.
(f)
Reauthorization
Such section is further amended, in subsection (p), by striking
2025
and inserting
2027
.
(g)
Technical correction to definitions
Such section is further amended, in subsection (q)(5), by striking
Medical services
and inserting
The term
emergency treatment
means medical services
.
(h)
Required use of certain screening protocol
Such section is further amended, in subsection (q)(11)(A)(ii), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
In the case of a grantee awarded a grant under this section on or after the date of the enactment of the
No Wrong Door for Veterans Act
, such screening shall be the Columbia Protocol (also known as the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C–SSRS)).
.
