1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Recreation and Outdoor Access Membership Act
or the
ROAM Act
.
2.
Pilot Program for State and National passes
(a)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall begin implementing a pilot program to issue a pass for a specified period not to exceed 12 months that allows entry into parks and other outdoor recreation areas under the jurisdiction of one or more Federal land management agencies and one or more State land management agencies in States located in the National Park Service Southeastern Region.
(b)
Partnership agreements
(1)
In general
Before including entry into a State park and other outdoor recreation area as part of a multi-entity pass, the Secretary shall enter into a partnership agreement, with the appropriate State land management agencies, that includes the following regarding the multi-entity pass:
(A)
Consent of the required State entities.
(B)
The price of the multi-entity pass.
(C)
The distribution of revenues between the Federal and State agencies.
(D)
The sharing of costs between the Federal and State agencies.
(E)
The benefits provided by the multi-entity pass.
(F)
Marketing and design of the multi-entity pass.
(G)
The terms of issuance of the multi-entity pass, including to volunteers, veterans, and other groups that or individuals who may receive a free or discounted multi-entity pass.
(2)
No net revenue loss
The Secretary—
(A)
shall take into consideration all relevant visitor and sales data available when entering into an agreement under this section; and
(B)
shall not enter into an agreement that would result in the Secretary or the relevant States collecting less net revenue for multi-entity passes under this section than the Secretary or the relevant States, respectively, would collect from non-multi-entity passes for entry into the same parks and outdoor recreation areas.
(c)
Sunset
(1)
Authority
The authority of the Secretary under this section shall expire 4 years after the effective date of the first partnership agreement entered into by the Secretary under subsection (b).
(2)
Multi-entity passes
The Secretary shall not issue a multi-entity pass under the program required under subsection (a) after the date that is 3 years after that program is established.
3.
Study
Not later than 5 years after the effective date of the first partnership agreement entered into by the Secretary under section 2(b), the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that includes—
(1)
the outcome of the pilot program; and
(2)
a recommendation regarding whether or not to implement the pilot program permanently nationwide.
4.
Definitions
In this Act, the following apply:
(1)
Multi-entity pass
The term
multi-entity pass
means a pass for entry into parks and other outdoor recreation areas under the jurisdiction of one or more Federal land management agencies and one or more State land management agencies issued under the pilot program established pursuant to section 2(a).
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
