1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secure And Fortify Entrances and Rooms in Schools Act of 2024
or the
SAFER Schools Act of 2024
.
2.
Installation or modification of interior and exterior doors in schools
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) of the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall convene a rulemaking advisory committee to review and develop findings and recommendations to require the installation or modification of interior and exterior doors in any primary or secondary school in the United States which receives Federal funding.
(b)
Membership
The Director of CISA shall chair and, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, appoint the members of the rulemaking committee under subsection (a), which shall be comprised of the Secretary of Education (or his or her designee) and at least one representative from the constituencies of—
(1)
State and local law enforcement officers;
(2)
school safety personnel or school resource officers;
(3)
school safety advocates, which may include parents;
(4)
public, private, or parochial school teachers or administrators;
(5)
individuals with expertise in the area of ballistic shielding technology;
(6)
individuals with expertise in the field of school construction, including structural engineering or architecture; and
(7)
other stakeholders or experts the Director of CISA, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines appropriate.
(c)
Considerations
The rulemaking advisory committee under subsection (a) shall consider the following:
(1)
Requirements for any reinforced door, including an identification or specification of appropriate technologies, mechanisms, covers, adhesives, or other qualities of such doors that may be utilized to better guarantee security within a classroom or primary or secondary school building.
(2)
Reinforced door performance standards that manufacturers and primary or secondary schools are required to satisfy.
(3)
The development, certification, testing, manufacturing, installation, and training relating to reinforced doors.
(4)
The appropriate term of service or lifetime of a reinforced door.
(5)
How requirements will ensure the effectiveness of a reinforced door in protecting against threats while not inhibiting the movement of law enforcement personnel in pursuit of a threat or the ability of students, teachers, and primary or secondary school personnel to safely evacuate in the event of an emergency.
(6)
Other considerations the Director of CISA determines appropriate.
(d)
Report to Congress
Not later than one year after the convening of the rulemaking advisory committee under subsection (a), the Director of CISA shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Heath, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report based on the findings and recommendations of such committee.
(e)
Final rule relating to installation or modification of interior and exterior doors in schools
Not later than six months after the date of submission of the report required under subsection (d), the Director of CISA, taking into consideration the findings and recommendations contained in such report, shall issue a final rule requiring the installation or modification of interior and exterior doors in primary or secondary school for the purpose of reinforcing such doors.
(f)
State Homeland Security Grant Program
This section shall be administered under the authorization of the Homeland Security Grant Program under section 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 605
). There is authorized to be appropriated to such Program to carry out this section an additional $100,000,000 for the fiscal year in which the final rule is issued in accordance with subsection (e) and for each of the nine fiscal years thereafter. Such additional amounts may only be obligated and expended for the purpose of carrying out this section.
