1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Budget, No Recess Act
.
2.
Timely completion of budgetary actions
(a)
In general
Section 2 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (
2 U.S.C. 621
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
to ensure timely completion of budgetary actions as outlined in this Act.
.
(b)
House approval of regular appropriation bills
Section 309 of such Act is amended by inserting
or August
after
July
.
3.
Limits on official travel of Members of Congress upon failure to adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget in a timely manner
(a)
Limits on official travel
(1)
Limitation
Except as provided in
paragraph (2)
, no amounts may be obligated or expended for official travel by a Member of Congress (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) during the period described in
subsection (b)
.
(2)
Exceptions
(A)
Return to DC
If a Member of Congress is away from the seat of Government on the date on which the period described in
subsection (b)
begins, funds may be obligated and expended for official travel for a single return trip to the seat of Government by the Member of Congress.
(B)
Travel in National Capital Region
During the period described in
subsection (b)
, amounts may be obligated and expended for official travel by a Member of Congress from one location in the National Capital Region to another location in the National Capital Region.
(C)
National security events
During the period described in
subsection (b)
, if a national security event that triggers a continuity of operations or continuity of Government protocol occurs, amounts may be obligated and expended for official travel by a Member of Congress for any official travel relating to responding to the national security event or implementing the continuity of operations or continuity of Government protocol.
(b)
Period described
The period described in this subsection is the period that—
(1)
begins on the next calendar day after April 15 of each calendar year if the House of Representatives and the Senate have not adopted a concurrent resolution on the budget as required by section 301(a) of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (
2 U.S.C. 632(a)
); and
(2)
ends on the date of the adoption of a concurrent resolution on the budget.
(c)
Definitions
For the purposes of this section—
(1)
a
calendar day
shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays; and
(2)
the term
National Capital Region
has the meaning given that term in section 8702 of title 40, United States Code.
