1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sovereign State Environmental Quality Assurance Act
.
2.
Abolishment of the Environmental Protection Agency
(a)
In general
Effective on the termination date under subsection (b), the Environmental Protection Agency is abolished.
(b)
Termination date
The termination date under this subsection is the date that is 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Wind-Up activities
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall take such actions as may be necessary to wind up any outstanding obligations, activities, or affairs of the Environmental Protection Agency prior to the termination date under subsection (b).
(d)
Progress report
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to Congress a report on the Agency’s progress in winding up the affairs of the Agency by not later than the termination date under subsection (b).
3.
Allocation of funds to State environmental quality departments
(a)
Allocation of funds
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall allocate amounts made available pursuant to paragraph (2) to the State environmental quality departments of each of the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa, in the proportion to which the total population of each State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa bears to the total population of all the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa, as determined by the last preceding decennial census.
(2)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $4,400,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029.
(b)
Authorization for administration
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury to audit and administer any allocation of amounts made available pursuant to subsection (a)(2) $880,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029.
4.
CBO Study and report
(a)
Annual study and report
The Congressional Budget Office shall annually, for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029, conduct a study and submit to Congress a report on the efficacy of this Act.
(b)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Congressional Budget Office to carry out this section $880,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029.
