1.
Department of Veterans Affairs pilot program on provision of naloxone to veterans and their caregivers
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a two-year pilot program under which the Secretary shall make naloxone available at pharmacies and medical facilities of the Department to any veteran or registered caregiver of a veteran at no charge and without a prescription.
(b)
Provision of information
The Secretary shall ensure that any veteran or registered caregiver who receives naloxone under the pilot program also receives—
(1)
information about addiction services, suicide prevention services, mental health services, and other related services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
(2)
information about available resources for education on the use and application of naloxone.
(c)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the completion of the pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program. Such report shall include each of the following:
(1)
The number of veterans and registered caregivers who received naloxone under the pilot program.
(2)
An assessment of the feasibility of expanding the pilot program in order to provide naloxone to immediate family members of veterans.
(3)
An assessment of the feasibility or expanding the pilot program to include non-Department medical providers through which the Secretary furnishes hospital care, medical services, and extended care services to veterans under section 1703 of title 38, United States Code.
(4)
An assessment of the effect of a requirement for a consultation by an appropriate medical provider of the Department when providing naloxone to any veteran or registered caregiver for a second time, including whether such a consultation requirement would be likely to reduce the number of veterans and registered caregivers who request naloxone for a second time.
(5)
Any budgetary considerations associated with continuing, expanding, or making permanent the pilot program.
(6)
Any other recommendations of the Secretary with respect to modifying or continuing the pilot program.
