1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Table Rock Lake Property Flexibility Act
.
2.
Table Rock Lake lease agreements
(a)
In general
Upon the request of an owner of covered property, the Secretary shall—
(1)
convey to such owner all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to covered land; or
(2)
enter into a lease agreement with such owner for covered land.
(b)
Consideration
Any owner to which a conveyance is made under this section or who enters into a lease agreement under this section shall pay to the Secretary an amount that is not more than 150 percent of the fair market value of the covered land.
(c)
Conveyance conditions
The Secretary may not require, as a condition of conveying covered land under this section, an owner to remove any structures existing on such land.
(d)
Lease conditions
With respect to any covered land that is subject to a lease entered into under this section, the Secretary may not—
(1)
require the removal of any structures existing on such land before the date on which the lease is entered into; or
(2)
prohibit or limit the installation of any structures on such land after such date.
(e)
Lease funds
Any amounts generated from a lease agreement entered into under this section shall be used by the Secretary for infrastructure for recreational activities related to the Lake and maintenance of such infrastructure.
(f)
Liability
(1)
Conveyance
An owner to which a conveyance is made under this section shall hold the United States harmless from any liability with respect to activities carried out, on or after the date of the conveyance, on the land conveyed. The United States shall remain responsible for any liability with respect to activities carried out, before such date, on the land conveyed.
(2)
Lease
The United States shall not be liable or responsible for damage to any structure that is installed on covered land that is subject to a lease entered into under this section.
3.
Alterations to docks on Table Rock Lake
The Secretary may not prohibit any individual with a lease or easement for a dock located on the Lake from making alterations to such dock, or to the land adjacent to such dock, that make such dock accessible to individuals with disabilities.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered land
(A)
In general
The term
covered land
means the portion of fee land that is within a 100-foot radius of any covered property and that is directly linear to such covered property.
(B)
Exclusion
The term
covered land
does not include land that is located within the flood plain of the Lake.
(2)
Covered property
The term
covered property
means any property located directly adjacent to fee land.
(3)
Fee land
The term
fee land
means the land acquired in fee title by the United States for the Lake.
(4)
Lake
The term
Lake
means the Table Rock Lake project of the Corps of Engineers, located in Missouri and Arkansas, authorized as one of the multiple-purpose reservoir projects in the White River Basin by section 4 of the Act of June 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 1218).
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
