1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Overdose in Schools Act
.
2.
Pilot program for opioid reversal agent administration training
(a)
Grants
Section 1003 of the 21st Century Cures Act (
42 U.S.C. 290ee–3a
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (i) and (j), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
(h)
Pilot program for opioid reversal agent administration training
(1)
In general
As part of the program established under this section, the Secretary shall establish a pilot program under which the Secretary will award grants to school districts—
(A)
to train school resource officers, security personnel, and school nurses in the administration of opioid reversal agents;
(B)
to purchase opioid reversal agent kits; and
(C)
to provide awareness of opioid use disorder and strategies for preventing overdose deaths.
(2)
Priority
In selecting recipients of a grant under this subsection, the Secretary shall—
(A)
ensure that 50 percent of such recipients are school districts located in a rural area (as defined by the Secretary); and
(B)
in selecting the remaining 50 percent of recipients, give priority to school districts located in areas with high rates of drug-related overdoses by youth (as defined by the Secretary).
(3)
Conditions
As a condition on the receipt of a grant under this subsection, a school district shall agree that if the school district has a school resource officer or any security personnel, the officer (or personnel) must be trained in opioid reversal agent administration.
(4)
Definition
In this subsection, the term
opioid reversal agent
means an opioid antagonist or other drug that has been approved or otherwise authorized by the Food and Drug Administration to reverse the effects of an opioid.
.
(b)
Set aside funding
Paragraph (3) of section 1003(j) of the 21st Century Cures Act (
42 U.S.C. 290ee–3
note), as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
of the amount remaining after application of subparagraphs (A) and (B), set aside not less than $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025 to carry out subsection (h).
.
