1.
Real property conveyance
(a)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services, on behalf of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice, shall sell, by quitclaim deed, the property described in subsection (b) at fair market value and at highest and best use.
(b)
Property described
The property to be sold under this section is all property, including all buildings and improvements thereon, located in the State of Missouri in connection with the United States Penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kansas, and administered by the United States Bureau of Prisons.
(c)
Survey required
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the exact legal description, including buildings, improvements, and acreage of the property to be sold under this section shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the Administrator.
(d)
Deferred maintenance
Any deferred maintenance required pursuant to the agreement between the United States and the Farley-Beverly Drainage District and entered into on April 18, 1967, shall be addressed before sale of the property under this section.
(e)
Costs
Any costs incurred for the completion of the survey or other activities undertaken to prepare the property for sale under this section, including costs related to the deferred maintenance requirements described in subsection (d), shall be reimbursed from the gross proceeds of the sale.
(f)
Net proceeds
(1)
In general
Any net proceeds received from the sale of the property under this section shall be deposited into an account in the Federal Buildings Fund established by section 592 of title 40, United States Code.
(2)
Future appropriation
On deposit of net proceeds into the Fund under paragraph (1), such net proceeds may be expended only subject to a specific future appropriation.
(g)
Prohibition on foreign ownership
(1)
In general
The property described in subsection (b) may not be sold to any foreign person or entity, including if such person or entity is a beneficial owner of such foreign person or entity.
(2)
Definitions
The terms in this subsection have the meaning given such terms in section 2 of Secure Federal LEASEs Act (
40 U.S.C. 585
note).
