1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
General Aviation Airport Access Act
.
2.
Public airport apron access for transient general aviation aircraft
(a)
In general
Chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
40131.
Apron access for transient general aviation aircraft
(a)
Transient apron
A covered airport shall provide transient general aviation aircraft parking on or near the existing apron when the pilot or owner of that aircraft does not need or request fuel or use other related services from the covered airport or a fixed-base operator at the covered airport.
(b)
Transient fees
A covered airport may assess a fee on a transient general aviation aircraft for using the transient apron described in subsection (a) and, if it does assess such a fee, the fee shall be fair, reasonable, transparent, publicly available (including on the website of the entity that imposes such fee), and exclude any extraneous or hidden costs.
(c)
Access to transient apron
A controlled access airport, or a fixed-base operator at a controlled access airport, may not charge a fee for a pilot or passengers to transit between their transient general aviation aircraft parked on the transient apron described in subsection (a) and a place outside the airport’s perimeter fence, whether or not such transit requires passing through a building.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Controlled access airport
The term
controlled access airport
means an airport that is a public use airport and—
(A)
is required to have an airport security program under part 1542 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations; or
(B)
the airport or a fixed-base operator at the airport does not allow a pilot unescorted access to the pilot's transient general aviation aircraft that is parked on the transient apron described in subsection (a).
(2)
Covered airport
The term
covered airport
means an airport that is a public use airport and has—
(A)
received a grant under section 48103 or chapter 471 at any time during the most recent 20-year period; or
(B)
been the recipient of a Federal property conveyance.
(3)
Fixed-base operator
The term
fixed-base operator
means a business granted the right by an airport sponsor or heliport sponsor to operate on an airport or heliport and provide aeronautical services, including fueling and charging, aircraft hangaring, tiedown and parking, aircraft rental, aircraft maintenance, and flight instruction.
(4)
Public use airport
The term
public use airport
has the meaning given that term in section 47102.
(5)
Transient general aviation aircraft
The term
transient general aviation aircraft
means an aircraft, not owned or operated by an air carrier or foreign air carrier, that is seeking to park temporarily at an airport.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 401
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 40130
the following:
40131. Apron access for transient general aviation aircraft.
.
