1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Earth Sciences and Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2024
.
2.
Memoranda of understanding with respect to scientific and technical cooperation in earth sciences
(a)
In general
The Secretary may enter into a memorandum of understanding with the head of an agency of a foreign country with respect to scientific and technical cooperation in the earth sciences.
(b)
Prioritization
The Secretary shall prioritize entering into memoranda of understanding under subsection (a) with the heads of agencies of partner foreign countries.
(c)
Prioritization of certain activities
A memorandum of understanding entered into under subsection (a) shall prioritize carrying out activities in a cooperative manner, including the following:
(1)
Acquisition, compilation, analysis, and interpretation of geologic, geophysical, geochemical, and spectroscopic remote sensing data.
(2)
Prospectivity mapping and mineral resource assessment.
(3)
Analysis of geoscience data, including developing derivative map products that can help more effectively evaluate the mineral resources of the other country.
(4)
Scientific collaboration to enhance the understanding and management of the natural resources of the other country and thereby contribute to the sustainable development of the mineral resources sector of the other country.
(5)
Training and capacity building in each area described in paragraphs (1) through (4).
(6)
Facilitation of higher education with respect to and specialized training in geoscience and mineral resource management at institutions of higher education located within the United States.
(7)
Training in environmental and workplace standards, led by the Secretary, for an agency of a foreign country that is a party to such a memorandum of understanding.
(d)
Encouragement of direct contacts and cooperation
A memorandum of understanding entered into under subsection (a) may encourage and facilitate the development of direct contacts and cooperation among and between entities of the United States and each country that is a party to the memorandum of understanding, including government agencies, universities, research centers, and private companies.
(e)
Participation of third parties
To the extent permitted by the laws and policies of the government of each country that is a party to a memorandum of understanding entered into under subsection (a), the memorandum of understanding shall encourage government entities or agencies of the United States and each such country and other entities that are not parties to the memorandum of understanding, including scientists, technical experts, institutions of other foreign countries, and international organizations, to participate in activities carried out pursuant to the memorandum of understanding.
3.
Authorization of appropriations
(a)
In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this Act $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until expended.
(b)
Required use of amounts
The Secretary shall use at least 70 percent of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) to support the implementation of memoranda of understanding entered into under section 2(a), including paying salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the activities described in section 2(c).
(c)
Allowed use of amounts
The Secretary may use amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) that are not used in accordance with subsection (b)—
(1)
to support the planning and coordinating of critical mineral data collection;
(2)
to adopt shared data management approaches with partner foreign countries; and
(3)
to coordinate data management approaches with partner foreign countries.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Critical mineral
The term
critical mineral
means any mineral, element, substance, or material—
(A)
included on the list of critical minerals published by the United States Geological Survey pursuant to section 7002(c) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(c)
);
(B)
included on the list of critical materials published by the Department of Energy pursuant to section 7002(a) of the Energy Act of 2020 (
30 U.S.C. 1606(a)
); and
(C)
designated as a material of interest by the Defense Logistics Agency.
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001(a)
).
(3)
Partner foreign country
The term
partner foreign country
means a country that is a source of a critical mineral and—
(A)
with which the United States has entered into a mutual defense treaty or other mutual defense agreement;
(B)
that is recognized by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense as a strategic partner due to an established bilateral agreement that emphasizes mutual interests in security, defense, and critical mineral supply chains, including countries designated under United States strategic frameworks and agreements;
(C)
with which the United States has entered into a comprehensive economic and trade agreement that includes provisions for the collaboration on critical mineral resources and to safeguard supply chains critical to national security and economic stability;
(D)
with which the Secretary has entered into a memorandum of understanding concerning scientific and technical cooperation in earth sciences under section 2(a); or
(E)
with which the Secretary of State is working under the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment to advance a critical mineral project.
(4)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geologic Survey.
