1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Family Plus Health Care Act of 2024
.
2.
Extension of coverage to parents of enrollees who are not eligible to enroll in the Medicare or Medicaid program
(a)
Extension of coverage
Title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 2714 the following new section:
2714A.
Extension of coverage to parents of enrollees who are not eligible to enroll in the Medicare or Medicaid program
A group health plan or a health insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage that provides dependent coverage of children shall extend coverage under such group health plan or such health insurance coverage, at the option of an individual enrolled in such group health plan or such health insurance coverage, to a parent of such individual if such parent is not entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and not eligible to enroll under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of such Act.
.
(b)
Tax treatment of expenditures for health insurance of non-Dependent parents
(1)
Tax treatment
(A)
Exclusion of amounts expended for medical care
Section 105(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(b)
Amounts expended for medical care
(1)
Amounts
Except in the case of amounts attributable to (and not in excess of) deductions allowed under section 213 (relating to medical, etc., expenses) for any prior taxable year, gross income does not include amounts referred to in subsection (a) if such amounts are paid, directly or indirectly, to the taxpayer to reimburse the taxpayer for expenses incurred by him for the medical care (as defined in section 213(d)) of the taxpayer, his spouse, his dependents (as defined in section 152, determined without regard to subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B) thereof), any child (as defined in section 152(f)(1)) of the taxpayer who as of the end of the taxable year has not attained age 27, and any parent of the taxpayer who (during the calendar month in which such amounts are incurred) is not entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and not eligible to enroll under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of such Act. Any child to whom section 152(e) applies shall be treated as a dependent of both parents for purposes of this subsection.
(2)
Parent defined
For purposes of this subsection, the term
parent
includes a biological parent, a stepparent, and a parent by adoption.
.
(B)
Self-employed health insurance deduction
Section 162(l)(1) of such Code is amended—
(i)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
at the end,
(ii)
in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting
, and
, and
(iii)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(E)
any parent (as defined in section 105(b)(2)) of the taxpayer who, during the calendar month in which such amounts are incurred, is not entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and not eligible to enroll under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of such Act.
.
(C)
Coverage under self-employed deduction
Section 162(l)(2)(B) of such Code is amended by inserting
or subparagraph (E)
after
subparagraph (D)
.
(D)
Medical and other benefits for retired employees
Section 401(h) of such Code is amended by striking
age 27.
and inserting
age 27 or who is a parent (as defined in section 105(b)(2)) of a retired employee who (during the calendar month in which such contributions are made) is not entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and not eligible to enroll under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of such Act.
.
(E)
Treatment of parent as dependent for purposes of certain sick and accident benefits
Section 501(c)(9) of such Code is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting
or who is a parent (as defined in section 105(b)(2)) of a member who (during the calendar month in which such payments are made) is not entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and not eligible to enroll under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of such Act.
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of this Act.
