1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Cuba Threat Assessment Act
.
2.
Assessment on threats within the United States posed by the Republic of Cuba
(a)
Requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for five years, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies as the Under Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an assessment regarding threats within the United States posed by the Republic of Cuba.
(b)
Coordination
The threat assessments under
subsection (a)
—
(1)
shall be coordinated with the Office of the General Counsel, the Privacy Office, and the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department of Homeland Security prior to release outside the Department to ensure each such assessment complies with applicable law and protects individuals’ privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties; and
(2)
may be informed by existing products, as appropriate.
(c)
Form
The threat assessments under
subsection (a)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. The Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall post on a publicly available website of the Department an unclassified portion of such assessments.
(d)
Briefing
Not later than 30 days after the submission of each threat assessment under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing regarding each such assessment. The head of any other Federal relevant department or agency referred to in such subsection shall join the Under Secretary for any such briefing if any such committee determines such is appropriate.
(e)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on Homeland Security and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
