1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Major Thomas D. Howie Congressional Gold Medal
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Major Thomas D. Howie was born on April 12, 1908, in Abbeville, South Carolina, and went on to both a storied academic and athletic career at The Citadel as class president, a star football halfback and captain of the baseball team.
(2)
Major Howie answered his nations call to service by accepting a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps in the Virginia National Guard upon graduation from The Citadel.
(3)
Major Howie was commissioned into the U.S. Army Reserve and later transferred to the Virginia National Guard’s 116th Infantry Regiment in Staunton, Virginia.
(4)
Major Thomas Howie valiantly served his country during the Battle of Normandy, demonstrating exceptional courage, devotion to duty, and skill in battle after landing on Omaha Beach on June 6th, 1944.
(5)
Major Howie commanded 3rd Battalion, 116th Infantry Regiment, 29th Infantry Division on July 13th, 1944, and shortly thereafter was tasked with rescuing the encircled 2nd Battalion, 116th Infantry Regiment.
(6)
Major Howie was instructed by his commanding officer to take St. Lo on July 17th 1944, he decided to leave the battered 2nd Battalion behind to recuperate and proceed with only the 3rd Battalion. When questioned on this, he was overheard saying
See you in St. Lo
to Major General Charles Gerhardt, words which would serve as inspiration for his men in the coming battle.
(7)
While giving his company commanders instructions for the attack, the unit came under fire from German mortars, and Major Howie was killed, a sacrifice for which he was posthumously awarded a Silver Star, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, French Legion of Honor, French Fourragere, and Combat Infantry Badge.
(8)
Major Howie’s men strapped his body to a stretcher, draped him with an American flag, and placed him on the hood of a Jeep so that he could be the first American to enter St. Lo. He was laid in the rubble of the St. Croix Cathedral, where fellow soldiers and French civilians paid their respects. From then on, he was known as
The Major of St. Lo
.
(9)
Major Howie’s leadership and unwavering commitment to his soldiers inspired bravery and determination among his troops, ultimately leading to the successful capture of St. Lo, a crucial strategic objective that directly led to Operation Cobra and the Allied Liberation France, Belgium, and the Netherlands from Nazi Tyranny.
(10)
Though his command of the 116th Infantry Regiment was short-lived, Major Howie embodied the extraordinary courage and valor that defined American soldiers during the Battle of Normandy. His sacrifice echoes through the halls of history to inspire Americans to this day.
(11)
The character of Major Howie was used as inspiration for the role of Captain John Miller, portrayed by Tom Hanks in the movie
Saving Private Ryan
. This brought attention to his remarkable leadership and sacrifice, thereby furthering public recognition of his valor.
(12)
Major Howie’s legacy extends beyond the silver screen. Monuments and markers commemorating his valor and leadership stand in Abbeville, Greenwood, and Charleston, South Carolina; Staunton, Virginia; Shelby, North Carolina; and Saint-Lo, Normandy, France. In 2003, South Carolina further honored him with a posthumous induction into the South Carolina Hall of Fame.
(13)
Major Howie’s sacrifice and exemplary service symbolize the highest ideals of patriotism, integrity, and dedication to duty.
(14)
Major Thomas D. Howie’s legacy continues to inspire future generations to uphold the seven army values of loyalty, duty, respect, selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal courage.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Award authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous award, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Major Thomas D. Howie, in recognition of his bravery and outstanding service during the Battle of Normandy.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purpose of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Presentation
The gold medal referred to in subsection (a) shall be presented to—
(1)
the nephew of Thomas Howie, Tom Howie; or
(2)
if Tom Howie is unavailable, the next of kin of Thomas Howie.
(d)
Award of medal
Following the presentation described in subsection (c), the gold medal shall be given to The Citadel Museum, where it shall be displayed as appropriate and made available for research.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of such medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
The medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
The amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
