1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Food Traceability Enhancement Act
.
2.
Easing recordkeeping and traceability lot code requirements
Section 204(d) of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (
21 U.S.C. 2223(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (5), by striking
not more than 2 years
and inserting
not more than 1 year
; and
(2)
in paragraph (6), by adding at the end the following:
(J)
Traceability lot codes at retail food establishments, restaurants, and warehouses
(i)
In general
The requirements under this subsection shall not require restaurants, retail food establishments, and warehouses to maintain traceability lot code information or provide traceability lot code information to the Secretary or other entities in the supply chain.
(ii)
Warehouse defined
In this subparagraph, the term
warehouse
means any facility primarily engaged in the storage of food to be shipped to retail food establishments or restaurants.
.
3.
Pilot projects on food tracing
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall conduct at least 9 pilot projects, in coordination with food industry members operating restaurants, retail food establishments, and warehouses distributing to retail food establishments and restaurants, to—
(1)
measure the effectiveness of foodborne illness outbreak investigations conducted without the use of traceability lot code information; and
(2)
identify and evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of low-cost food tracing technologies.
(b)
Diversity
In conducting the pilot projects required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
conduct—
(A)
at least 3 pilot projects in coordination with restaurants;
(B)
at least 3 pilot projects in coordination with retail food establishments; and
(C)
at least 3 pilot projects in coordination with warehouses distributing to retail food establishments and restaurants; and
(2)
ensure that each pilot project uses at least 1 commodity—
(A)
included in the Food Traceability List published by the Food and Drug Administration on November 21, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 70916); and
(B)
not used in another such pilot project.
(c)
Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the pilot projects required by subsection (a), including—
(1)
recommendations to minimize disruptions across the food supply chain;
(2)
recommendations to ensure product availability and diversity are not negatively impacted;
(3)
recommendations to reduce the compliance burden for small businesses covered by the final rule titled
Requirements for Additional Traceability Records for Certain Foods
, published on November 21, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 70910);
(4)
a list of low-cost food tracing technologies that are commercially available and an evaluation of the effectiveness of each technology; and
(5)
a list of all revisions that, as a result of such pilot projects, will be made to such final rule.
4.
Compliance date of final rule on food traceability
The compliance date for the final rule titled
Requirements for Additional Traceability Records for Certain Foods
, published on November 21, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 70910), or any other rule promulgated in accordance with section 204 of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (
21 U.S.C. 2223
), shall be no earlier than the date that is 2 years after the date on which the pilot projects required by section 3(a) are completed.
5.
Report on barriers to information sharing between FDA and food establishments
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report, which shall include a list of all barriers, legal or otherwise, that prevent the Food and Drug Administration from sharing with retail food establishments and restaurants pertinent information regarding foodborne illness outbreak investigations, including—
(1)
information surrounding early warning signals of foodborne illnesses;
(2)
reported consumer illnesses; and
(3)
suspected transmission vehicles of a foodborne illness.
