1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area Act
.
2.
Designation of Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area
(a)
Designation
Section 6001(a) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 768; 136 Stat. 6163) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(14)
Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area
(A)
In general
There is established as a component of the National Heritage Area System the Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area in the State of Kentucky, consisting of Bath, Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Clay, Elliott, Estill, Floyd, Harlan, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Madison, Magoffin, Martin, McCreary, Menifee, Morgan, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Rowan, Wayne, Whitley, and Wolfe Counties, Kentucky.
(B)
Local coordinating entity
Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, a nonprofit organization established under the laws of the State of Kentucky, shall be the local coordinating entity for the National Heritage Area designated by subparagraph (A).
.
(b)
Management plan
For the purposes of section 6001(c) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 772; 136 Stat. 6173), the local coordinating entity for the Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area designated under the amendment made by subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of the Interior for approval a proposed management plan for the Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c)
Termination of authority
For the purposes of subsection (g)(4) of section 6001 of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (
Public Law 116–9
; 133 Stat. 776), the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to provide assistance under that section for the Kentucky Wildlands National Heritage Area designated under the amendment made by subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
