1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reviewing QatarГўВҖВҷs Major Non-NATO Ally Status Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
On October 8, 1997, the Secretary of State designated Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiya (
Hamas
) as a foreign terrorist organization in accordance with section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189
).
(2)
In 2012, the State of Qatar allowed Hamas to open a political office in Doha.
(3)
On October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists operating from Gaza attacked Israel, resulting in the death of more than 1,200 individuals and the kidnapping of more than 240 individuals, including the death of more than 30 and kidnapping of more than a dozen United States citizens.
(4)
Ismail Haniyeh, the chief of HamasГўВҖВҷs political bureau, resides in Qatar, as do Khalil al-Hayya, head of HamasГўВҖВҷs communications office, and Khaled Mashal, HamasГўВҖВҷs former political chief and current head of the groupГўВҖВҷs diaspora office.
(5)
On January 6, 2024, in a meeting with a bipartisan, bicameral delegation of United States lawmakers, Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani assured the delegation that
since day 1, Qatar has been strong arming Hamas to get the hostages back
.
(6)
At the end of January 2024, Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani asserted publicly that Qatar has no leverage over Hamas in hostage negotiations.
(7)
On February 17, 2024, Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani urged a ceasefire in Gaza without preconditions, undercutting negotiations for the release of hostages, including United States citizens, at the Munich Security Conference.
(8)
As of April 2024, Hamas continues to hold 5 United States citizens hostage in Gaza, as well as the bodies of 3 United States citizens believed to be killed on or shortly after October 7, 2023.
(9)
The March 10, 2022, designation of the State of Qatar as a major non-NATO ally is a privilege which must be continuously earned.
(10)
It is in the United States interest to review the designation of certain countries as Major Non-NATO Allies from time to time as facts and circumstances change. In fact, the United States Government terminated AfghanistanГўВҖВҷs status as a major non-NATO ally in July 2022, following the TalibanГўВҖВҷs takeover of that country.
3.
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
meansГўВҖВ”
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
4.
Review of designation of the State of Qatar as a major non-NATO ally
(a)
Review and report
(1)
In general
In light of the fact that the State of Qatar hosts Hamas, a United States-designated terrorist organization with American blood and hostages on its hands, and the fact that Qatar continues to host this terrorist organization despite the continued captivity by Hamas of American hostages, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shallГўВҖВ”
(A)
conduct a thorough review ofГўВҖВ”
(i)
bilateral relations between the United States and Qatar;
(ii)
QatarГўВҖВҷs relationship with Hamas; and
(iii)
QatarГўВҖВҷs designation as a major non-NATO ally; and
(B)
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed written report summarizing the review.
(2)
Form
The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in an unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
(b)
Certification
(1)
In general
The report required under subsection (a) shall include a certification from the Secretary of State as to whetherГўВҖВ”
(A)
It is in the national interest of the United States for Qatar to maintain its designation as a major non-NATO ally;
(B)
Qatar has exerted any and all leverage it has over Hamas to secure the release of United States hostages from Gaza;
(C)
Qatar does not directly or indirectly support, financially or otherwise, acts of international terrorism or foreign terrorist organizations, including Hamas; and
(D)
Qatar has expelled or agreed to extradite to the United States any individuals determined to be members of Hamas, including Ismail Haniyeh, Khalil al-Hayya, Khaled Mashal, and any other individuals bearing responsibility for the terror attack on October 7, 2023.
(2)
Form and publication
The certification required under paragraph (1) shall be in unclassified form and posted on a publicly available website of the Department of State.
(c)
Termination
In the event that the Secretary of State cannot in good faith certify the determinations described under subsection (b)(1) in the affirmative, the PresidentГўВҖВ”
(1)
shall immediately terminate the designation of the State of Qatar as a major non-NATO ally pursuant to section 517(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321k(a)(1)
) or any other provision of law; and
(2)
may not issue a separate designation of the State of Qatar as a major non-NATO ally pursuant to section 517(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2321k(a)(1)
) or any other provision of law unless the President submits to Congress a certification described in subsection (b).
