1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Robert Cleckler (
Bobby
) Bowden Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
Robert Cleckler (
Bobby
) Bowden was born on November 8, 1929, in Birmingham, Alabama.
(2)
Bobby Bowden served as head coach of the Florida State University Seminoles from 1976 to 2009.
(3)
While coaching at the Florida State University, Bobby Bowden’s teams won two national championships (1993 and 1999) and 12 Atlantic Coast Conference titles.
(4)
Bobby Bowden posted a 316–97–4 record in his 34 years at Florida State University.
(5)
Throughout his entire 44 years of coaching college football, Bobby Bowden won a total of 377 games, making him one of the winningest coaches in college football history.
(6)
Bobby Bowden and wife, Ann Estock, his childhood sweetheart, have been married for 72 years. The couple has six children, 21 grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
(7)
In 1999, he coached what would be the first of many games against a team coached by his son,
The Bowden Bowl
. This event was the first of its kind in the history of Division I–A football.
(8)
In 2004, the Fellowship of Christian Athletes’ organization began presenting an annual
The National Bobby Bowden Award
to a football player for philanthropic work.
(9)
In 2011, he was awarded the
Children’s Champion Award for Leadership Development
by the Children’s Hunger Fund, a charitable organization, in recognition of his humanitarian work.
(10)
In 2021, Bobby Bowden received the inaugural Florida Governor’s Medal of Freedom Award.
(11)
Bobby Bowden leaves a legacy of leadership for his contributions on the football field and in his community.
(12)
While Bobby Bowden is recognized for his many football accomplishments, he will be remembered as a family man who counted all as part of his family and encouraged us all to recognize our own humanity and love our many brothers and sisters.
(13)
We are better for having known him, even if we never met him. He stood for our best, recognized our failings, and believed we all had merit.
(14)
Bobby Bowden’s spirit is the American spirit of which we can be proud and seek to emulate in both large and small ways.
(15)
Bobby Bowden never asked for accolades, and for this, and the totality of his life and his love, we honor him in perpetuity.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration to Mr. Robert Cleckler (
Bobby
) Bowden, in recognition of his achievements both on and off the football field.
(b)
Design and striking
(1)
In general
For the purpose of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (in this Act referred to as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(2)
Image
The emblems, devices, and inscriptions determined by the Secretary shall include an inscription of the name of Robert Cleckler (
Bobby
) Bowden.
(c)
Disposition Of Medal
Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to Mr. Robert Cleckler (
Bobby
) Bowden’s next of kin.
4.
Duplicate medals
(a)
Striking of duplicates
The Secretary may strike duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3.
(b)
Selling of duplicates
The Secretary may sell such duplicates under subsection (a) at a price sufficient to cover the costs of such duplicates, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medals
Medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
