1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Stealing Like There’s No Tomorrow Act
.
2.
Identifying violators of End-Use Monitoring and prohibiting such individuals from United States entry
(a)
Certification of end-Use monitoring compliance
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 120 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains the following:
(1)
A thorough analysis of the manner and extent to which the Government of Ukraine has been in compliance with end-use monitoring for all defense articles sold, leased, and exported under the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2751
) as follows:
(A)
Compliance with the Blue Lantern Program of the Department of State on and after February 24, 2022.
(B)
Compliance with the Golden Sentry Program of the Department of Defense on and after February 24, 2022.
(2)
A list of each official of the Government of Ukraine that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State determine have acted in violation of either end-use monitoring program described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Ineligibility for visas
Each alien included on the list described in subsection (a)(2) shall be—
(1)
inadmissible to the United States;
(2)
ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and
(3)
otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.
).
(c)
Revocation of current visas
The visa or other entry documentation of any alien included on the list described in section (a)(2) is subject to revocation regardless of the issue date of the visa or other entry documentation. Such revocation shall, in accordance with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1201(i)
), take effect immediately and cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the possession of the alien.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
