1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
HIDTA Reauthorization Act of 2024
.
2.
Office of National Drug Control Policy
(a)
Amendments
Section 707 of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (
21 U.S.C. 1706
), is amended—
(1)
in subsection (l)(2)(F), by inserting
and immigration authorities
after
joint terrorism task forces
;
(2)
in subsection (m)(2), by inserting
, including immigration authorities,
after
law enforcement agencies
;
(3)
in subsection (p)—
(A)
in paragraph (5), by striking
; and
and inserting a semicolon;
(B)
in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
$302,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2030.
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(t)
Fentanyl Interdiction Activities
(1)
Grants
The Director shall provide grants through a competitive process in a form and manner as the Director determines to be appropriate to HIDTAs for the purposes of enhancing fentanyl seizure and interdiction activities.
(2)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Director $14,224,000 for each of fiscal year 2024 through 2030 to carry out this subsection.
(u)
Use of Funds To Combat Fentanyl Trafficking
(1)
Requirement
As part of the documentation that supports the President’s annual budget request for the Office, the Director shall submit to Congress a report describing the use of HIDTA funds to investigate and prosecute organizations and individuals trafficking in fentanyl or fentanyl analogues in the prior calendar year.
(2)
Contents
The report shall include—
(A)
the amounts of fentanyl or fentanyl analogues seized by HIDTA-funded initiative in the area during the previous year; and
(B)
law enforcement intelligence and predictive data from the Drug Enforcement Administration showing patterns and trends in abuse, trafficking, and transportation in fentanyl and fentanyl analogues.
(v)
Additional prosecutorial resources
(1)
In general
The Attorney General shall identify not less than 16 assistant United States attorneys who shall be available for temporary reassignment under subsection (b)(2) for fiscal years 2024 through 2030, during which such an assistant United States attorney shall prioritize the investigation and prosecution of organizations and individuals trafficking in fentanyl or fentanyl analogues. Such reassignment may be extended by the Attorney General for such time as may be necessary to conclude any ongoing investigation or prosecution in which the assistant United States attorney is engaged.
(2)
Process for temporary reassignment
Not later than 180 days after the effective date of this subsection, the Attorney General shall establish a process under which the Director, in consultation with the Executive Boards of each designated high intensity drug trafficking area, may request such an assistant United States attorney to be so temporarily reassigned.
.
(b)
Offset
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are authorized to be appropriated for
National Archives and Records Administration–Repairs and Restoration
$8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2030.
