1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
ADA 30 Days to Comply Act
.
2.
Notice and cure period
Paragraph (1) of section 308(a) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (
42 U.S.C. 12188(a)(1)
) is amended to read as follows:
(1)
Availability of remedies and procedures
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), the remedies and procedures set forth in section 204(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (
42 U.S.C. 2000a–3(a)
) are the remedies and procedures this title provides to any person who is being subjected to discrimination on the basis of disability in violation of this title or who has reasonable grounds for believing that such person is about to be subjected to discrimination in violation of section 303. Nothing in this section shall require a person with a disability to engage in a futile gesture if such person has actual notice that a person or organization covered by this title does not intend to comply with its provisions.
(B)
Barriers to access to existing public accommodations
A civil action under section 302 or 303 based on the failure to remove an architectural barrier to access into an existing public accommodation may not be commenced by a person aggrieved by such failure unless—
(i)
that person has provided to the owner or operator of the accommodation a written notice specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier; and
(ii)
(I)
during the period beginning on the date the notice is received and ending 30 days after that date, the owner or operator fails to provide to that person a written description outlining improvements that will be made to remove the barrier; or
(II)
if the owner or operator provides the written description under subclause (I), the owner or operator fails to remove the barrier or, in the case of a barrier, the removal of which requires additional time as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator, fails to make substantial progress in removing the barrier during the period beginning on the date the description is provided and ending 30 days after that date.
(C)
Specification of details of alleged violation
The written notice required under subparagraph (B) must also specify in detail the circumstances under which an individual was actually denied access to a public accommodation, including the address of property, whether a request for assistance in removing an architectural barrier to access was made, and whether the barrier to access was a permanent or temporary barrier.
(D)
Notice specific enough
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
notice specific enough
means notice that allows such owner or operator to identify the barrier to access in question.
.
