1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Confidence in Elections: District of Columbia Timely Reporting of Election Results Act
.
2.
Requirements for processing and reporting results with respect to District of Columbia elections
(a)
Requirements
Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as sections 305 and 306, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after section 303 the following new section:
304.
Timely processing and reporting of results with respect to a District of Columbia election
(a)
Time for processing ballots and reporting results
The District of Columbia shall begin processing ballots received by mail in a District of Columbia election as soon as such ballots are received and shall ensure to the greatest extent practicable that the results of such District of Columbia election are reported to the public not later than 10:00 am on the date following the date of the election, but in no case shall such ballots be tabulated or such results be reported earlier than the closing of polls on the date of the election.
(b)
Requirement To publish number of voted ballots on election day
The District of Columbia shall, as soon as practicable after the closing of polls on the date of a District of Columbia election, make available on a publicly accessible website the total number of voted ballots in the possession of election officials in the District of Columbia as of the time of the closing of polls on the date of such election, which shall include, as of such time—
(1)
the number of voted ballots delivered by mail;
(2)
the number of ballots requested for such election by individuals who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (
52 U.S.C. 20301 et seq.
); and
(3)
the number of voted ballots for such election received from individuals who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (
52 U.S.C. 20301 et seq.
), including from individuals who, under such Act, voted by absentee ballot without requesting such a ballot.
(c)
Requirements To ensure bipartisan election administration activity
With respect to a District of Columbia election, District of Columbia election officials shall ensure that all activities are carried out in a bipartisan manner, which shall include a requirement that, in the case of an election worker who enters a room which contains ballots, voting equipment, or non-voting equipment as any part of the election worker’s duties to carry out such election, the election worker is accompanied by an individual registered to vote with respect to a different political party than such election worker, as determined pursuant to the voting registration records of the District of Columbia.
(d)
District of Columbia election defined
The term
District of Columbia election
means any election for public office in the District of Columbia, including an election for Federal office, and any ballot initiative or referendum.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment relating to enforcement
Section 401 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21111
) is amended by striking
and 303
and inserting
303, and 304
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended—
(1)
by redesignating the items relating to sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections 305 and 306, respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:
Sec. 304. Timely processing and reporting of results with respect to a District of Columbia election.
.
