1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strategy To Oppose Purposeful CCP Aggression at the United Nations Act of 2023
or
STOP CCP at UN Act of 2023
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The People’s Republic of China and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) wield increasing influence at the United Nations and other international and multinational organizations.
(2)
This influence threatens the United States in its diplomatic engagement with countries at the United Nations and around the world.
(3)
China uses its influence to sway vulnerable countries to vote in support of policies that support China and the goals of the CCP.
(4)
China uses its financial support and contributions to the United Nations and its agencies to influence the outcomes of policy debates and votes.
(5)
From 2015 to 2021, China has grown its leadership role at the United Nations, where Chinese citizens have led four United Nations specialized agencies: the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). Three of the four Chinese citizen agency heads have departed due to term limits, however the FAO is still led by a Chinese citizen. Additionally, this year a Chinese citizen is one of seven candidates for election to the position of Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organization (IMO), a United Nations specialized agency responsible for improving the safety and security of international shipping and facilitation of international maritime traffic.
3.
Efforts to counter the influence of China at the United Nations
(a)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 9 years, the Secretary of State and the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the People’s Republic of China’s actions and attempts to place Chinese nationals in leadership positions at the United Nations and its affiliated agencies, including through coercion, intimidation, bribery and other illegitimate means, and to provide broader personnel representation of China at the United Nations, to influence the United Nations and its agencies generally.
(2)
Matters to be included
The report required by this subsection should include the following:
(A)
A description of votes taken in the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations Security Council, and United Nations specialized agencies that aligned with China’s interest and voting record.
(B)
A description of financial contributions to the United Nations by China.
(C)
The number of Chinese diplomatic personnel assigned to the United Nations.
(D)
A description of Chinese contributions, to include military personnel, to United Nations peacekeeping missions.
(E)
An identification of leadership positions at the United Nations, an identification of Chinese nationals in such positions, including Chinese nationals in supporting positions.
(F)
The number and description of attempts by China to obtain such leadership positions at the United Nations.
(G)
A description of attempts and processes of China to co-opt third countries in order to align their votes at the United Nations with Chinese interests.
(H)
A list of not less than those 15 countries that are most aligned with Chinese interests at the United Nations, to include through voting record and lobbying efforts.
(I)
An explanation on how China views the United Nations as a vehicle to advance its interests.
(3)
Form
The report required by this subsection should be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
(4)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this subsection, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Select Committee on the Strategic Competition between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(b)
Office of Multilateral Strategy
(1)
In general
The Secretary of State shall establish an office to develop and implement a strategy to counter China at the United Nations. The Secretary may designate the Office of Multilateral Strategy at the Department of State, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, as the office required to be established by this subsection.
(2)
Reporting and consultation
The office established pursuant to this subsection shall report to and consult with Congress with respect to the strategy described in this subsection.
(c)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should consider paying its contributions to the United Nations that are in arrears in order to strategically and financially expand its influence at the United Nations and counter China’s argument of insufficient United States financial engagement at the United Nations.
(d)
Sponsored junior professional officers
The Secretary of State shall—
(1)
require tracking and reporting on the number of Chinese sponsored junior professional officers at the United Nations; and
(2)
increase the number of United States sponsored junior professional officers at the United Nations in order to match or exceed the number of Chinese sponsored junior professional officers at the United Nations.
