1.
Cybersecurity prioritization in information technology procurement
(a)
Sense of congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Department has not sufficiently emphasized cybersecurity in its operations or in its procurement of information technology, and that these shortcomings have contributed to numerous cybersecurity incidents at the Department; and
(2)
the Department should prioritize, to the highest level and to a greater extent than it already does, the minimization of cybersecurity risks in its procurement of information technology.
(b)
Annual report
The Chief Information Officer in the Bureau of Information Resources Management shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report which—
(1)
describes all Department information technology procurement contracts awarded in the year prior to the issuance of the report, including the name of the awardee and the information technology they were contracted to procure; and
(2)
for all Department information technology procurement contracts awarded in the year prior to the issuance of the report with contract price exceeding $10,000,000—
(A)
details the cybersecurity risks which have been or will be created by the information technology procured or intended to be procured under the contract, including the Department’s strategy for mitigating these risks;
(B)
justifies the Department’s choice to award the contract to its particular awardee in light of those cybersecurity risks; and
(C)
justifies the Department’s choice to procure such information technology in light of those cybersecurity risks.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
(2)
Cybersecurity incident
The term
cybersecurity incident
has the meaning given the term
incident
in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code.
(3)
Cybersecurity risk
The term
cybersecurity risk
has the meaning given that term in section 2200 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 650
), except that it refers exclusively to cybersecurity risks to the Department’s information and information systems.
(4)
Department
The term
Department
means the United States Department of State.
(5)
Information system
The term
information system
has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.
(6)
Information technology
The term
information technology
has the meaning given that term in section 11101 of title 40, United States Code.
