1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Winter Oilseed Study Act of 2024
.
2.
Purposes and findings
(a)
Purposes
The purposes of this Act are as follows:
(1)
To ensure the continued growth of clean and sustainable feedstocks, crops such as winter canola will need access to crop insurance products that allow for additional growing practices.
(2)
To recognize the importance and regionality characteristics of rotationally and double-crop grown canola and the economic and environmental benefits to producers.
(3)
By investing in lower carbon-intensity renewable fuels, such as those produced from canola, the United States can provide sustainable fuels, create jobs, enhance our rural communities, and bolster our national security.
(b)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Canola improves farm economics by increasing yield in cereal, soybean, and other crops that follow winter canola.
(2)
Canola oil is a source of renewable energy as a feedstock for biodiesel, renewable diesel, and jet biofuel.
(3)
Canola oil-based renewable fuels reduce greenhouse gas emissions by over 50 percent compared to conventional fuels, providing significant air quality improvements.
(4)
Expanding winter canola production will provide additional feedstock to meet growing renewable fuel demand without bringing new land into production, which will yield an even more favorable carbon intensity compared to conventional fuels.
3.
Study of inclusion of certain oilseed crops under double and rotational cropping policies
Section 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
4 U.S.C. 1522(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(20)
Double cropping and rotational cropping of certain oilseed crops
(A)
Definition of covered oilseed crops
In this paragraph, the term
covered oilseed crops
means rapeseed and canola crops.
(B)
Research and development
The Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, with respect to the inclusion of covered oilseed crops under double cropping and rotational cropping policies.
(C)
Requirements
The research and development carried out pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be conducted in consultation with stakeholders to evaluate—
(i)
the factors impacting availability and cost of crop insurance when incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies; and
(ii)
the potential risk management benefits associated with incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies, specifically with respect to winter planted covered oilseed crops, including risk management benefits to soil health, biodiversity, and the profitability of farming operations.
(D)
Emphasis
In awarding contracts under subparagraph (B), the Corporation may place emphasis on qualified persons that—
(i)
have previous research experience with covered oilseed crops; and
(ii)
have access to a facility with the capacity to carry out the applicable research.
(E)
Report
Not later than 13 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes—
(i)
the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (B); and
(ii)
any recommendations with respect to those results.
.
4.
National Institute of Food and Agriculture amendments
Section 1473D of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (
7 U.S.C. 3319d
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(3)—
(A)
in subparagraph (E), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
by redesignation subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); and
(C)
by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
(F)
to examine potential benefits and opportunities for supplemental and alternative crops (including winter-planted rapeseed and winter-planted canola crops); and
; and
(2)
in subsection (e) by adding at the end the following:
(4)
$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029.
.
5.
Report to Congress
Not later than 13 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes—
(1)
the results of the research and development carried out under the amendments made by section 3; and
(2)
any recommendations with respect to those results.
