1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
VA Security Screening Pilot Program Act
.
2.
Pilot program to use weapon screening technology at medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a pilot program to use weapon screening technology at the primary entrance of each medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs located in one VISN selected by the Secretary.
(2)
Exception
The Secretary may omit from the pilot program a medical center located in the VISN selected if the Secretary—
(A)
determines that—
(i)
the Secretary already uses weapon screening technology at the primary entrance of such medical center; or
(ii)
the medical center has a staffing shortage that makes participation in the pilot program impracticable; and
(B)
submits to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives written notice of such omission before the Secretary carries out the pilot program.
(b)
Agreements
The Secretary may enter into an agreement with an entity to acquire weapon screening technology to carry out the pilot program. Any such agreement shall terminate not later than the day the pilot program terminates.
(c)
Termination
The pilot program shall terminate two years after the Secretary begins to carry out the pilot program.
(d)
Report
Not later than 90 days after the pilot program terminates, the Secretary, after consulting with the director of the VISN selected and the director of each medical center in such pilot program, shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the pilot program. Such report shall include the following:
(1)
The determination of the Secretary of the usefulness and effectiveness of the weapon screening technology used.
(2)
The satisfaction, determined by surveys conducted by the Secretary, with such pilot program, of—
(A)
veterans who visited each medical center during such pilot program;
(B)
Department police officers; and
(C)
employees of the Department who worked at each such medical center during such pilot program.
(3)
) The determination of the Secretary whether—
(A)
existing policies regarding security screenings at medical centers of the Department are appropriate; and
(B)
to update any such policy.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
primary entrance
means the entrance through which the most individuals pass on average per day.
(2)
The term
VISN
means a Veterans Integrated Service Network.
(3)
The term
weapon screening technology
means technology designed to screen individuals for weapons and other dangerous or prohibited items.
