1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Facilitating Access to Swiftly Transport Goods during a Publicly Announced State of Emergency Situation Act
or the
FAST PASS Act
.
2.
Study on critical cargo
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a study to examine—
(1)
efforts to expedite the movement of critical cargo through ports and marine terminals; and
(2)
methodologies, practices, and processes for moving such cargo during an event for which an emergency is declared by the President or a Federal agency.
(b)
Contents
In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall examine methodologies, practices, and processes for—
(1)
identifying critical cargo and expediting the movement of such cargo through the marine terminals and ports;
(2)
expediting the movement of critical cargo across all modes of transportation after leaving marine terminals and ports; and
(3)
mitigating the impact on the movement of other cargo that is not critical.
(c)
Consultation
In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with—
(1)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
(2)
other relevant Federal agencies.
(d)
Request for information
The Secretary shall issue a request for information in the Federal Register seeking public comment on the matters to be considered in the study required under subsection (a).
(e)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing—
(1)
the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a); and
(2)
recommendations for methodologies, practices, and processes described in such subsection, including recommendations for using data from commercial and government data tracking initiatives to—
(A)
determine when cargo is critical and needs to be expedited;
(B)
identify such critical cargo at port and marine terminals; and
(C)
expedite the movement and distribution of such cargo to end users.
3.
Pilot program
(a)
Voluntary pilot programs
In conducting the study required under section 2, the Secretary may establish 1 or more voluntary pilot programs to test the effectiveness of methodologies, practices, and processes for expediting the movement of critical cargo through ports and marine terminals.
(b)
Limitations
The Secretary may only establish a pilot program under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that the pilot program does not—
(1)
allow for the purchase of any fully automated cargo handling equipment that is remotely operated or remotely monitored with or without the exercise of human intervention or control; or
(2)
result in a net loss of jobs within a port or port terminal.
4.
Savings clause
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to interfere with or supersede any port labor agreements.
