1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Voter Integrity and Defense Act
.
2.
Requiring photo identification law as condition of eligibility for Federal funds to support election administration
(a)
Requirement
Subtitle D of title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21001 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
7
Conditioning Eligibility for Funds on Laws Requiring Photo Identification for Voting
297.
Condition on eligibility for funds
(a)
Requiring provision of photo identification for voting
A State or a jurisdiction in a State is not eligible to receive a payment from the Commission under this Act or any other Act unless the State or jurisdiction certifies to the Commission that the State has in effect a law that—
(1)
prevents the appropriate State or local election official from providing a ballot for an election for Federal office to an individual who desires to vote in person unless the individual presents to the official a valid photo identification described in section 297A; and
(2)
prevents the appropriate State or local election official from accepting any ballot for an election for Federal office provided by an individual who votes other than in person unless the individual submits with the ballot a copy of a valid photo identification described in section 297A.
(b)
Exception for absent military voters
A State or jurisdiction is eligible to receive a payment if the State provides an exemption under the law described in subsection (a) for absent uniformed services voters under section 107(1) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (
52 U.S.C. 20310(1)
).
297A.
Valid photo identification described
A valid photo identification described in this section with respect to an individual is any of the following:
(1)
A valid State-issued motor vehicle driver’s license that includes a photo of the individual and an expiration date.
(2)
A valid State-issued identification card that includes a photo of the individual and an expiration date.
(3)
A valid United States passport for the individual.
(4)
A valid military identification for the individual.
(5)
Any other form of government-issued identification that the State may specify as a valid photo identification for purposes of voting in an election for Federal office.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subtitle D of title II the following:
Part 7—Conditioning Payment of Funds on Laws Requiring Photo Identification for Voting
Sec. 297. Condition on payments.
Sec. 297A. Valid photo identification described.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall apply with respect to payments made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
