1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modernizing Operations for Vehicles in Emergencies Act
or the
MOVE Act
.
2.
Modernizing authority for certain vehicle permits during emergencies and certain other conditions
Section 127(i) of title 23, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
(i)
Special permits during emergencies and certain other conditions
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a State may issue special permits to overweight vehicles and loads that can easily be dismantled or divided if the conditions of either paragraph (2) or paragraph (3) are met.
(2)
Presidential declaration
The conditions of this paragraph are—
(A)
the President has declared an emergency or a major disaster pursuant to section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
; 5191);
(B)
the permits described in paragraph (1) are issued in accordance with State law;
(C)
the permits are issued exclusively to vehicles and loads that are delivering relief supplies or supplies that facilitate recovery or return to normalcy; and
(D)
a permit shall expire not later than 120 days after the date of the declaration described in subparagraph (A), unless the permit expiration date is extended by the Governor of the State issuing such permit.
(3)
Governor declaration
The conditions of this paragraph are the following:
(A)
A Governor of a State has declared that—
(i)
emergency or other unusual conditions, including weather, fire, earthquake, disease, or natural emergencies and including financial or other non-natural emergencies, are having a negative impact on commerce in the State; or
(ii)
supply chain function is substantially impaired in the State, either in terms of slow overall movement, freight traffic congestion, or otherwise.
(B)
The permits described in paragraph (1) are issued in accordance with State law.
(C)
The authority to issue a permit described in paragraph (1) shall expire 270 days after a Governor makes a declaration pursuant to subparagraph (A), unless the expiration date is extended by the Governor, which may be for a period of not more than 90 days.
(D)
A permit issued pursuant to this paragraph shall expire on the date on which the period of authority to issue a permit under subparagraph (C) ends, including any extension of such period of authority.
.
