By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   of  , it is ordered as follows:

1. I hereby designate  , formerly Chief Justice,   of  ,  , formerly Judge,   of  ,  .  , Associate Justice,   of  ,  , Presiding Judge,   of the State of  ,  , Judge,   of the State of  ,  , Associate Justice,   of the State of Massachusetts,  , Judge,   of the State of  ,  , Judge,   of the State of  , and  , attorney of  , as the members, and  , attorney of  , as an alternate member, of the military tribunals established by the Military Governor for   of Occupation within   pursuant to the quadripartite agreement of  , enacted  , as  . 10, and pursuant to   of the Charter of  , which tribunal was established by  ,  ,   and  , and  , for the trial and punishment of major war criminals of  . Such members may, at the direction of the Military Governor of   Occupation, serve on any of the several military tribunals above mentioned, which tribunals are a component part of the military occupational forces of  , and upon which the members designated herein shall perform active service during the period of their designation.

2. The members herein designated shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of the   and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes.

3. The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , and the Secretary of the   are authorized to provide appropriate assistance to the members herein designated in the performance of their duties and may assign or detail such personnel under their respective jurisdictions, including members of the armed forces, as may be requested for the purpose. Personnel so assigned or detailed shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of the   and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes, except that personnel assigned or detailed from   shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses to which they may be entitled by reason of their military grade and service and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to   for such purposes.
