PART I - ORGANIZATION FOR PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Organization for personnel administration in the executive branch of   is hereby prescribed as follows:

§   for personnel management. Personnel management is primarily the responsibility of all who plan, direct, or supervise the work of Federal employees. Personnel management methods should be consistent for the   as a single employer and yet be sufficiently flexible to meet the diversified conditions in the Federal service.

  responsibilities under this order. (a) The   shall be responsible to the President for the proper application of  , the  ' Preference Act, and all other applicable statues and Executive orders imposing responsibilities on the  .

(b) The   shall exercise and provide leadership in personnel matters throughout the Federal service, and in the discharge of this responsibility shall whenever practicable, consult   agencies.

(c) The   shall develop and promulgate standards, applicable to the competitive service and designed to protect and promote its efficiency, for the reinstatement or reemployment of former Federal employees, and for the promotion, demotion, reassignment, and transfer of present employees. The   shall also define the restoration rights of persons who left the Federal service to enter the armed forces of   in such a manner as to give full effect to section 8 of the Selective Training and Service Act.

(d) The   shall prescribe procedures to be followed by agencies in connection with removals, demotions and suspension in the competitive service which will insure equitable and uniform treatment to employees against whom adverse action is proposed.

(e) The   shall, when consistent with law and with the economical and efficient management of the Government, delegate to the agencies its authority to act in personnel matters in accordance with standards issued by the  .

(f) The   shall maintain and adequate system of inspection to determine that equitable and sound application of statutes, Executive orders, regulations and standards relating to personnel management is being carried out by the agencies. Whenever the inspection indicates failure on the part of an agency to adhere to established policies, regulations and standards, the   shall take such action as may be appropriate to bring about adherence thereto. In this connection, the   may suspend or revoke any delegation of its authority.

(g) The   shall in the exercise of its personnel functions give all practicable assistance to international organization in which   participates, to the   civil service board, and to such  , or local agencies shall request its cooperation and offer like cooperation, including, when appropriate, the sharing of any necessary expenses. Under such regulations as may be jointly agreed upon, the   shall conduct or join with such agencies in conducting examinations or other personnel functions. In its discretion, the   may certify eligibles from appropriate registers maintained by the   civil service board,   boards, or civil service boards of   and local agencies, if such boards agree, and the   finds that the requirement of law concerning appointments to the competitive service have been met. If such boards so desire, they may, upon agreement with the  , certify eligibles from the appropriate registers maintained by the  .

§01.3 Agency responsibilities for personnel management. (a) The head of each agency, in accordance with applicable statutes, Executive orders, and rules shall be responsible for personnel management in his agency. To assist and advise him in carrying out this responsibility he shall maintain or establish such office or division of personnel as may be required. He shall designate a director of personnel or other similarly responsible official to be in charge of such office or division. Such director or other official shall represent the head of the agency in personnel matters, subject to his instructions.

(b) The head of each agency shall provide for the cooperation of his agency with   in the conduct of personnel matters.

(c) Authority for the conduct of personnel matters within each agency should be delegated to the extent compatible with provisions of law and with economical and efficient administration to those officials responsible for planning, directing, and supervising the work of others. The exercise of such delegated authority shall be subject to policies, rules, regulations and standards established by the head of the agency, and shall be subject to appropriate review and inspection.

(d) The head of each agency shall remove, demote, ore reassign to other position any employee in the competitive service whose conduct or capacity is such that his removal, demotion or reassignment will promote the efficiency of the service.

§01.4 Committees of expert examiners and boards of examiners. (a) In order to promote the effective recruitment and placement of persons for the Federal service, the departmental and field service resources of the   agencies may be utilized to the extent permitted by law. After consulting the agency or agencies concerned, the   may establish in the departmental service committees of examiners, expert in their respective fields, for scientific, professional, or technical positions, and in the field service, boards of examiners for any position. If such a position is peculiar to any agency, the committee or board shall be composed of not less than three qualified officers or employees of the agency concerned. If such a position exists in more than one agency, the committee or board shall be composed of not less than three qualified officers or employees of the agencies concerned.

(b) The work of the committees or boards referred to in this section shall be under the direction and supervision of the   in connection with the execution of  , and Regulations.

(c) The duties performed by the members of such committees or boards shall be considered part of their official duties and adequate time shall be allowed for their performance by the agency in which they are employed.

(d) Where qualified examiners are not readily available in the Federal service, and to the extent permitted by law, the   or the agency concerned may designate and compensate individuals outside the service especially qualified by experience and training to serve as examiners.

§01.5  . (a)   shall hereafter be known as   and shall be continued with  .

(b) The membership of the   shall consist of a chairman, the director of personnel or official responsible for personnel matters in each agency subject to  , one additional member designated by the Director of  , and such additional member or members as the   shall designate.

(c) The Chairman of the   shall be appointed by   after consultation with the   and shall serve as a member of the staff of the  .

(d) The purpose of the  , functioning as an advisory body, shall be to promote through study and discussion the application, interpretation, and development of personnel policies and practices. Its findings and recommendations shall be submitted to the   and may be submitted to the President or to other Federal agencies.

(e) Where there are substantial concentrations of Federal agencies in a geographical area, subsidiary councils may be established and maintained as recommended by the   and approved by the  . The membership of such councils shall consist of the heads of field establishments in such areas or their designated representatives and of the designated representatives of the commission.

PART II - CIVIL SERVICE RULES

  are hereby amended to read as follows:

RULE 1 - COVERAGE OF THESE RULES

§1.1 Positions and employees affected by these rules. (a) These Rules shall apply to all positions in the competitive service. As used in these Rules, the words "competitive service" shall have the same meaning as the words "classified service", or "classified (competitive) service," or "classified civil service" as defined in existing statutes and Executive orders. The competitive service shall include all civilian positions in the executive branch of the Government unless specifically excerpted therefrom under statute or Executive order, and all positions in the legislative and judicial branches of   and in   which are specifically made subject thereto by statute. Whenever there is a doubt the   shall determine whether a position is in the competitive service.

(b) Persons occupying such positions shall be considered as being in the competitive service when they have competitive status. A competitive status shall mean a status which permits a person to be promoted, transferred, reassigned, and reinstated to positions in the competitive service without competitive examination, subject to the conditions prescribed by   for such noncompetitive actions. A competitive status shall be acquired by probational appointment through competitive examination, or may be granted by statute, Executive order, or  .

RULE II - APPOINTMENT THROUGH THE COMPETITIVE SYSTEM

§2.1 Competitive examinations and eligible registers. (a) The   shall be responsible for open, competitive examinations for admission to the competitive service which will fairly test the relative capacity and fitness of the persons examined for the position to be filled. The   is authorized to establish standards with respect to citizenship, age, education, training and experience, suitability, and physical and mental fitness, and for residence or other requirements which applicants must meet to be admitted to or rated in examinations.

(b) In addition to the names of persons who qualify in competitive examinations, the names of persons who lost eligibility on a probational register because of service in the armed forces subsequent to  , and the names of persons having a competitive status whom the   determines should be given further certification may also be entered at such places as appropriate registers and under such conditions as the   may prescribe.

§2.2 Apportionment. Subject to such modifications as the   finds to be necessary in the interest of good administration, appointments to positions in agencies' headquarters offices which are located within the metropolitan area of  ,  , shall be made so as to maintain the apportionment of appointments among the several  , Territories, and   upon the basis of population.

§2.3 Probational and temporary appointments. (a) Persons selected from eligible registers for other than temporary appointment shall be required to serve a probationary period under such terms and conditions as the   may prescribe.

(b) The   may determine the types, durations and conditions of war service and other temporary appointments, and may prescribe the method for replacing persons holding such appointments.

RULE III - ACQUISITION OF A COMPETITVE STATUS

§3.1 Classes of persons who may acquire status. (a) A person may acquire a competitive status by probational appointment through competitive examination, or by statute, Executive order, or this Rule.

(b) Subject to such noncompetitive examination time limits, or other requirements as the   may prescribe, the following classes of persons may acquire a competitive status:

(1) Any person holding a permanent positions when it is placed in the competitive service by statue or Executive order or is otherwise made subject to competitive examination.

(2) Any person entitled to veteran preference who establishes the present existence of a service-connected disability of not less than 10 percent, or any person entitled to wife or widow preference under the  ' Preference Act, when such person is service under a war service indefinite appointment, a temporary appointment pending establishment of a register, or a temporary appointment for job employment which has been continuous for  .

(3) Any disabled veteran who, in a manner satisfactory to the  , has completed a course of training in the executive branch of the   prescribed by   in accordance with the act of   (57 Stat. 43).

(4) Any employee who has served   in the immediate office of the President or on   Staff and whose transfer to a competitive position is requested by any agency.

(5) Any employee who is servicing when his name was reached for certification on a civil service register appropriate for the position in which he was serving, provided recommendation for status is made prior to expiration of the register on which his name appears.

(6) An employee who was serving when his name was reached for certification on a civil service register appropriate to the position in which he was serving, provided he was appointed to a competitive position prior to the date such position was placed under the War Service Regulations and stood higher on such register than another eligible who received an original probational appointment therefrom.

(7) An employee who has served   under an appointment not limited to   or less and has received an eligible rating in an open competitive examination appropriate for the position occupied: Provided, That the lowest rating reached in the regular order of certification does not exceed his rating by more than five point: Provided further, That such employee is about to be replaced as a result of certification by the  . A non-veteran employee may not be granted status until all preference eligibles standing higher on the register have been given appropriate consideration under the  ' Preference Act.

§3.2 Appointment without competitive examination in rare cases. (a) Subject to receipt of satisfactory evidence of the qualifications of the person to be appointed, the   may authorize an appointment in the competitive service with a competitive examination when it finds:

(1) That the duties or compensation of the position are such, or that qualified persons are so rare, that in the interest of good civil service administration, the position cannot be filled through open competitive examination; or

(2) That it is essential to the program in which he is engaged to retain in the service a person who was serving in highly specialized scientific, professional or administrative position during the war period and prior to  , the effective date of  .

(b) Any subsequent vacancy in such position shall not be filled without competitive position shall not be filled without competitive examination except upon express prior approval of the   in accordance with this section. Detailed statements of the reasons for the noncompetitive appointments made under this section shall be made a part of the records of the   and shall be published in its   reports. Any person heretofore or hereafter appointed under this section may acquire a competitive status upon completion of   of satisfactory service and compliance with such requirements as the   may prescribe.

RULE IV - GENERAL PROVISIONS

§4.1 Prohibition against political activity. Persons in the executive branch shall retain the right to vote as they choose and to express their opinions on all political subjects and candidates, but such persons shall not use their official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting the result thereof. Persons occupying positions in the competitive service shall not take any active part in political management or in political campaigns except as may be provided by and pursuant to statute.

§4.2 Attempting to secure withdrawal from competition. The   is authorized to take such disciplinary action as it deems appropriate whenever it finds that any person has influenced another person to withdraw from competition for any position in the competitive service for the purpose of either improving or injuring the prospects of any applicant for appointment.

§4.3 Method of filling vacancies. In his discretion an appointing officer may fill any position by appointment through the competitive system from a certificate of eligibles issued under the authority of the  , or by promotion, demotion, reassignment, transfer, reinstatement or restoration in accordance with  . He shall exercise his discretion in all personnel actions solely on the basis of merit and fitness and without regard to political or religious affiliations, marital status or race.

§4.4 Personnel reports. Each agency shall report to the  , in such manner and at such times as the   may prescribe, such personnel information as it may request relating to positions and officers and employees in the competitive service or excepted from the competitive service by statute or Executive order, whether permanent, indefinite, temporary or subject to contract.

RULE V - REGULATIONS INVESTIGATION AND  

§5.1 Regulations. (a) The   is authorized and directed to promulgate and enforce such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of  , the  ' Preference Act, and all other applicable statues or Executive orders imposing responsibilities on the  .

(b) The   is authorized, whenever there shall be practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships in complying with the strict letter of its regulations, to grant a variation from the strict letter of the regulations if the spirit of the same is complied with and the efficiency of the Government sand the integrity of the competitive service are protected and promoted: Provided, That whenever such a variation is made from the regulations the   shall record in the minutes of its proceedings (1) the particular practical difficulty or hardship, (2) what is permitted in lieu of what is required by regulation, (3) the circumstances which protect or promote the efficiency of the Government and the integrity of the competitive service, and (4) a statement limiting the application of the variation to the continuation of the conditions which gave rise to the variation; Provided further, That similar variations shall be granted whenever similar conditions exist. All minutes approved under authority of this section shall be published in the  's   reports.

§  to make investigations. The   may make appropriate investigations to secure enforcement of the Civil Service Act, Rules, and  , including investigation of the qualifications and suitability of applicants for positions in the competitive service. It may authorize appointments conditioned upon a subsequent determination that the requirements of law or   have been met.

§5.3 Officers and employees to furnish testimony. All officers and employees in the executive branch, and applicants or eligibles for positions therein, shall give to the   or its authorized representatives all information and testimony in regard to matters inquired of arising under the Civil Service Act, Rules, and Regulations. Whenever required by the  , such persons shall subscribe such testimony and make oath or affirmation thereto before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths.

§  to issue instructions as to discipline or separation. Whenever the   finds that an appointment has been made in violation of  , or that any employee subject thereto has violated such Act, Rules, or   or is holding a position in violation thereof, it is authorized, after giving due notice and opportunity for explanation to the employee and the agency concerned, to certify the facts to the proper appointing officer with specific instructions as to discipline or dismissal.

§5.5 Withholding salary. If the appointing officers fails to carry out the instructions of the   issued under §5.4 of this Rule, the   shall certify the facts to the head of the agency concerned. If the head of the agency fails to carry out the instructions of the   within   after receipt thereof, the   shall notify   and no payment or allowance shall be made of the salary or wages accruing to the employee concerned after such notification.

RULE VI - EXCEPTIONS FROM THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE

§6.1 Positions excepted from the competitive service (a) Because of their confidential or policy-determining character, or because it is not practicable to make appointments thereto through competitive examination, the positions named in   and B, set for in §6.4 of this Rule shall be excepted from the competitive service. The   may, upon the request of an agency, determine that similar positions also should be excepted from the competitive service. Upon publication in   of its determination excepting such positions from the competitive service, appointment thereafter may be made to such positions in the same manner as under Schedules A and B (§6.4). At the end of   the   shall submit to the President for review a list of the positions which it has excepted from the competitive service under this section during  .

(b) Appointments to positions in   (a)) may be made without examination by the  .

(c) Appointments to positions in   (b)) shall be subject to such noncompetitive examination as the   may prescribe.

(d) Appointments under either   or B (§6.4) shall not confer a competitive status. Final decision as to whether the duties of a particular position are such that appointment to it is authorized under Schedule A or B (§6.4): Provided, That such revocation shall be published in  .

(d) An appointing officer in his discretion may fill any position in Schedule A or B (§6.4) or any position excepted from the competitive service by statute in the same manner as competitive positions are filled.

(f) Whenever any position in Schedule A or B (§6.4) is occupied by a person having competitive status, he shall be separated from such position only in accordance with the provisions of this order and  . Whenever any position excepted from the competitive service by statute is occupied by a person having a competitive status he shall not be entitled to the protection against separation provided by such Rules and Regulations.

§6.2 Assignment of excepted employees. Any person appointed without competitive examination to a position in   or B (§6.4), or to a position excepted from the competitive service by statute, shall not be assigned to the work of a position in the competitive service without prior approval of the  .

§6.3 Requirements of the Veterans' Preference Act. The regulations issued by the   pursuant to section 11 of the Veterans' Preference Act shall apply to positions listed in  ) and positions excepted from the competitive service by statute.

§6.4 Lists of positions excepted from the competitive service - (a)   The following positions are those excepted from the competitive service to which appointments may be made without examination by the  , and constitute   of  :

(1)  , (i)  .

(ii) Cooks, except at fixed locations such as, hospitals, quarantine stations, and penal institution.

(iii) Positions to which appointments are made by the President without confirmation by the  .

(iv) Attorneys.

(v)  ,  , and   interpreters.

(vi) Any position in which the appointee will receive compensation aggregating not more than $720 per annum, the duties of which are part-time or intermittent, but such appointments shall not be for job employment. In  , D. C., such appointments shall be subject to the prior approval of the  . All such employment shall be reported on the regular reports of personnel action; and in addition, unless payment is at a per annum rate of $720 or less, the total service rendered and its distribution shall be shown on reports submitted at the end of each calendar year; if separation occurs prior to the close of a calendar year, report should be submitted at the time of separation. Additional employment of the appointee by another agency, under similar conditions, shall be subject to the prior approval of the  .

(vii) Any position in a foreign country, or beyond the continental limits of  , when in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable, except as provided in subdivisions (viii) and (ix) of this subparagraph, and except the following:

(a) All positions in  ;

(b) Positions in  ,  , in   and  ;

(c) Positions in  ,  , in foreign countries, in   and in  .

(viii) Positions on the Isthmus of  , except: accountant, architect, architectural designer, bookkeeper, calculating machine operator, chemist, clerk (paying more than $150 in   currency per month),  ,  , draftsman, employee counselor, medical technician, personnel aid, personnel assistant, pharmacist, physician, play-ground director,  , stenographer, storekeeper, surgeon, trained nurse, typist, and harbor personnel of  .

(ix) Positions in  , when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination in impracticable. Persons formerly appointed under this subdivision may be reinstated to positions in   with the approval of the  .

(x) Temporary, part-time, or intermittent employments of mechanics, skilled laborers, and tradesmen on construction or repair work in places where there is o local board of examiners of   for the employment establishment, when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.   employments of a recurring nature are not authorized under this subdivision.

(xi) Any position directly concerned with the protection of the life and safety of the President and the members of his family.

(xii) Positions without compensation provided such appointments meet the requirements of applicable laws relating to compensation.

(xiii) Professional, scientific and technical excepts for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for consultation purposes.

( ) Unskilled laborers at any city, locality or establishment where the Labor Regulations were not in effect on  . The  , with the concurrence of the department or agency concerned, may include within the competitive civil service unskilled laborer positions at any such city, locality, or establishment.

(xv) Any local physician, surgeon, or dentist employed under contract or on a part-time or fee basis, when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(2)  . (i) Five special assistants to the Secretary of  .

(ii) All positions under international commissions, congresses, conferences, and boards, except  ;  ,   and  ; and  ,  ,  , and  .

(iii) Chief and Assistant Chief of  .

(iv) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  .

(v) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Under Secretary of  , the  , the Assistant Secretaries of State,  , and other officials of the   holding the rank of Assistant Secretary of  .

(vi) One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

(vii) Gage readers employed part-time or intermittently by  ,   and   at isolated localities when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(viii) Temporary field employees of  ,  ,  , and  , such as instrument men, foremen, recorders, packers, cooks, and axemen, for not to exceed   a year.

(3)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  , and one to the Under Secretary of the  .

(ii) Special employees in the field service of  ; and special employees for temporary detective work in the field service of   under the appropriation for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons violating the internal revenue laws. Appointments under this subdivision shall be limited to persons whose services are required because of individual knowledge of violations of the law, and such appointments shall be continued only so long as the personal knowledge possessed by the appointee of such violation makes his services necessary. This exemption from competition is for special and unusual cases only and report shall be made to the   by letter as soon as the appointment is made.

(iii)   in the foreign countries designated as "interpreter-translator" and "special employees," when filled by appointment of persons who are not citizens of  ; and positions in foreign countries of messenger and janitor.

(iv) Coast Guard: Lamplighters.

(v) Five assistants to the Secretary of the  .

(vi) Receivers of insolvent national banks and other financial institutions which are filled by appointment by   and whose salaries are paid directly from the funds of insolvent institutions.

(vii) One assistant to the Under Secretary of the  .

(viii) Until  , positions of Chief National Bank Examiner, Assistant Chief  ,  ,  , and Assistant National Bank Examiner, in  , whose salaries are paid from assessments against national banks and other financial institutions.

(ix) Until  , positions of the   Director and Deputy   Director of  .

(4) War Department. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of War and one to each Assistant Secretary of War.

(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of War.

(iii)   and stevedores employed at ports of embarkation in  ; and all positions on vessels operated by  .

(iv) Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-military nature and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(v) Student assistant positions under  ,  , concerned with scientific engineering investigations when filled by the appointment of students in attendance at colleges and universities of recognized standing, Provided, That substantial contributions to the investigations are made by such colleges and universities in money, services, advice or materials, or in the use of buildings, laboratories, equipment, facilities, or otherwise. Such employment may be continued under this authority only so long as the appointee is a bona fide student in a particular college or university and receives academic credit toward a degree for the work he is performing: And provided, That appointments to such positions will not exceed fifteen in number at any particular time, and will be for a period not to exceed  .

(vi) Land appraisers employed in   on a temporary or indefinite basis for specific projects where knowledge of local values or conditions or other specialized qualification not possessed by appraisers regularly employed by the   are required for successful results.

(vii) Caretakers of abandoned military reservations or of abandoned or unoccupied military posts when the positions are filled by retired noncommissioned officers or enlisted men.

(viii) Civilian professors, instructors, teachers, hostesses, chapel organist and choirmaster at  ,  ,  , and librarian when filled by an officer of   retired from active service, except teachers at  .

(ix) During the emergency declared by the President to exist on  , all positions in   on the Isthmus of  .

(x)   laborers and munitions handlers engaged in handling Ordnance materiel, including ammunition, where temporary or intermittent employment is necessary

(xi)   boys employed on  .

(xii) Internes [sic] (medical and dental) in   hospitals.

(xiii) During the emergency declared by the President to exist on  , positions in   and positions of hostess and librarian under  , assigned to   posts.

( ) Civilian deans and professors at  ,  ,  ,  .

(5)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the  , one to each Assistant Secretary of the   and one to the Under Secretary of the  .

(ii) Professors, instructors, and teachers in  .

(iii) Positions the duties of which are of a quasi-naval character and involve the security of secret or confidential matter, when , in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(iv) Positions of orderly at   when filled by the appointment of beneficiaries of the  .

(v) Technical or professional consultants or advisors at entrance rate of P-5 or its equivalent and above, employed not to exceed  .

(vi) One chauffeur for the Secretary of the  .

(vii) Caretakers or guards employed at closed or decommissioned facilities of  . Appointments under this subdivision shall not extend beyond  , except with the prior approval of the  .

(6)  . (i) Director and three assistant directors of prisons.

(ii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Attorney General, and one to each of the following: Assistant to the Attorney General, Solicitor General, Assistant Solicitor General, and each Assistant Attorney General.

(iii) One chauffeur for the Attorney General.

(iv) Eight positions in the immediate office of the Attorney General in addition to those excepted under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.

(v) Members of  .

(vi) All positions in  .

(vii) One private secretary to  .

(viii)  , Inc: The Commissioner of Industries.

(ix) Three Deputy Commissioners of Immigration and Naturalization.

(x) Deputy   paid on a fee basis.

(xi) Positions of bailiff in   courts.

(7)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to  , one to each Assistant  , and one to the Solicitor of  .

(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau (or office) in   in  , D. C., who is appointed by the President.

(iii) Clerks in fourth class post offices.

(iv) One chauffeur to  .

(v) Four special assistants to  .

(vi) Substitute rural carriers.

(vii) Special delivery messengers in second, third, and fourth class post offices.

(viii)   laborers employed as janitors and cleaners in small postal unites in leased quarters at a compensation less than $1,700 per annum.

(ix) The Solicitor of the Post Office Department.

(x) Fourth class postmasters in  .

(xi) One private secretary to the Executive Assistant to  .

(  of the Interior. (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of the   and one to each Assistant Secretary of the  .

(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of the  .

(iii) Office of the Secretary: One assistant to the Secretary.

(iv) Engineers, geologists, economists, architects and appraisers in a consulting or advisory capacity for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment. Employments under this subdivision shall not exceed   a year unless prior permission is given by the   for the extension of  . This time limit does not apply to consultants on reclamation work authorized by the act of  , as amended.

(v) Positions in  ,  , D. C., and in the  , when filled by the appointment of   who are one-fourth or more   blood.

(vi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau of   who is appointed by the President, and one each to the Governors of  ,  ,  , and  .

(vii) All positions in the Neopit Lumber Mills on   in  .

(viii) Agricultural extension agents and home demonstration agents employed in field positions in  , the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

(ix) Office of the Secretary: Six special agents in   to investigate fraudulent entries and other matters of criminal nature.

(x) Temporary, intermittent, or seasonal positions in the field service of  , when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a field activity or district, and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the field activity of the  , subject to the approval of the  .

(xi) Seaman, deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of  .

(xii) Housekeepers in   at a gross salary not in excess of entrance rate grade   or its equivalent.

(xiii) Agents in the Fish and Wildlife Service and   employed in field positions, the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons or organizations outside the   service.

(xiv) Positions in the field service of the Fish and   concerned with scientific fishery investigations when filled by the appointment of students at colleges and universities of recognized standing: Provided, That substantial contributions to the investigations are made by such college or universities in money, services, or materials or in the use of building, laboratories, equipment or facilities or otherwise. Such employments may be continued under this authority only so long as the appointee is a bona fide student at the particular college or university and receives academic credit toward a degree for the work he is performing for the Fish and Wildlife Service.

(  of the Secretary: Director and Assistant Director of  .

(xvi) Office of the Secretary: One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Director of  .

( :  .

(xviii) Temporary or   caretakers at temporarily closed camps or buildings or other structures and prevent damage or theft of Government property. Such appointments shall not extend beyond   without prior approval of the  .

(xix) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal field assistants in forestry, range management, soils, engineering, and with surveying parties, for not to exceed   a year.

(xx)  : One Administrator and one Head Administrative Officer.

(xxi) Three members of  .

(xxii)  : The Executive Director of   and  .

(xxiii) Temporary emergency forest and range fire and blister rust control employees in the field service of   employed for fire prevention or suppression or blister rust control for not to exceed   a year.

(xxiv)  : The Administrator.

(xxv)   and Island Possessions: The Director of the  .

(xxvi) Territory of  : One     Representative.

( )  :  ,  

(xxviii) Office of the Secretary: Six field representatives whose duties are of a confidential nature.

(9)  . (1) (a) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service.

(b) Local agents, except veterinarians, employed temporarily outside of   in demonstrating in their respective localities the necessity of eradicating contagious or infectious animal diseases.

(c) Positions the duties of which require a speaking knowledge of one of the   languages.

In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the   setting forth the name, designation, and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties, in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under one of the above classes. The same procedures shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

(ii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of Agriculture.

(iii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , one to each Assistant Secretary of Agriculture.

(iv) Student assistants who salaries shall not aggregate more than $832 a year. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standing shall be eligible for appointment under this subdivision. Employments under this subdivision shall not exceed   a year.

(v) Four assistants to the Secretary in  .

(vi) Any local veterinarian employed on a fee basis or a part-time basis when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(vii) The Solicitor of the Department of Agriculture.

(viii) Technical or professional consultants or advisers at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of grade P-5 or higher employed for not to exceed   a year.

(ix) Temporary seasonal field assistants in grades SP-1 through SP-5 or not to exceed   a year.

(x) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal clerical, crafts, protective and custodial positions in the field service of   at places other than civil service regional headquarters, paying not to exceed entrance rate of   or its equivalent, for not to exceed   a year, whenever in the opinion of the   appointment through competitive examination is impracticable.

(xi) Temporary or   caretakers at temporarily closed camps or improved areas. Such appointments shall not extend beyond a period of   without prior approval of the  's regional director.

(xii) Owner-operators of equipment who are residents in the area of employment for periods not to exceed 180 actual   in any one calendar year.

 . (xiii) Temporary, intermittent field enumerators and supervisors at salaries not exceeding entrance rate of   or its equivalent, for not to exceed   a year.

  ((xiv) One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Governor of  ,   Commissioner,  ,  , and   Commissioner.

(xv) Positions in  ,  ,  , the Banks for  , and positions filled by joint officers and employees of these institutions.

(xvi) Positions in  , joint stock land bank receivers, and petitions in receiverships, and   receivers and conservators.

( , intermittent and seasonal collectors at grades not higher than   for not to exceed   a year.

 . (xviii) Members of  .

(xix) The President, two Vice Presidents, and one assistant to the President.

 . (xx) One Deputy Administrator.

Forest Service. (xxi) Temporary forest workers employed for not to exceed   a year, such employment to be with headquarters other than in forest supervisor and regional officers unless employed primarily for fire prevention or suppression activities.

(xxii) Temporary, intermittent or seasonal positions when filled by the appointment of persons who are certified as maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence within, or contiguous to, a national forest and as being dependent for livelihood primarily upon employment available within the national forest, subject to approval by the  .

 . (xxiii) The Director, Assistant  , Regional Directors, and   of  .

(xxiv) Members of   Committees of  .

(xxv) Farmer fieldmen and farmer fieldwomen in   to interpret and explain and supervise farm programs.

(xxvi) Temporary, intermittent and seasonal employees in   to check allotments whose aggregate employment shall not exceed   a year.

( ) Farm fieldmen of  .

(xxviii) The Administrator, two Deputy Administrators, three Assistant Administrators, assistants to the Administrator, at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of CAF-13 or higher, ten experts at salaries equivalent to the entrance rate of CAF-13 or higher, for the duration of the war; two private secretaries to the Administrator, and one chauffeur for the Administrator.

(xxix) Loss adjustors employed locally on an intermittent basis to handle adjustments in crop losses under   for not to exceed   a year.

 . (xxx) The Deputy Administrator and three Assistant Administrators.

(xxxi) Sate and county committeemen to consider, recommend, and advise with respect to   program.

(10) Executive Office of the President. (i) Bureau of the Budget: One private secretary or confidential assistant each to the Director and Assistant Director.

(11)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in  , and to each Assistant Secretary of  .

(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

(iii) One chauffeur for the Secretary of  .

(iv) Student assistants in   whose salaries shall not exceed a rate of $832 a year each while employed. Only bona fide students at high schools or colleges of recognized standings pursuing technical or scientific courses shall be eligible for appointment under this subdivision. Appointments shall not exceed   in any one calendar year, except in especially meritorious cases, and then only upon prior approval of the  . Appointments under this subdivision shall be reported to the   in such form as the   may prescribe.

(v) Seaman, deckhand, fireman, cook, mess attendant, and water tender on vessels of  .

(vi) Office of the Secretary of  : Six assistants to the Secretary.

(vii) Temporary positions required in connection with the surveying operations of the field service of   as may be authorized by the   after consultation with  . Appointments to such positions shall not exceed   in any one calendar year.

(viii) Caretakers and helpers at magnetic and seismological observatories outside continental  .

(ix) Caretakers and light attendants employed on emergency landing fields and other air navigation facilities.

(x) One private secretary or confidential assistant to  .

(xi) Agents to take and transmit meteorological observations in connection with airways, whose duties require only part of their time, and whose compensation does not exceed $135 a month.

 . (xii) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside  .

In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of his qualifications for such duties ins such details as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under the above subdivision. The name procedure shall be followed in case of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

Bureau of the Census. (xiii) Supervisors, assistant supervisors, and supervisors' clerks and enumerators in the field service for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment for not to exceed  . Such appointments may be extended for not to exceed   with the express prior approval of the  .

(xiv) Employments of individuals, firms, or corporations for not to exceed   for special statistical studies and statistical compilations, the compensation of which is derived from funds deposited with the   under the act of   (49 Stat. 292), Provide, That such employments may, with the approval of the  , be extended for not to exceed and  .

(xv) Special agents employed in collecting cotton statistics.

Inland Waterways Corporation. (xvi) The President, the Vice Presidents, and the Secretary-Treasurer of the  .

(xvii) All members of  .

(xviii) All positions under  .

(xix) All unlicensed personnel on vessels operated by the  .

(xx) Wharf laborers.

(12)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each commissioner.

(13)  . (i) Commissioners of conciliation in labor disputes whenever in the judgment of the Secretary of   the interests of industrial peace so require.

(ii) Office of the Secretary: Three special assistants to the Secretary.

(iii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the head of each bureau in   who is appointed by the President.

(iv) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Secretary of  , one to the Under Secretary of  , and one to each Assistant Secretary of  .

(v) One chauffeur to the Secretary of  .

(vi) Member,   (Labor Representative).

(vii) Member,   (Industry Representative).

(viii) Member,   (Public Representative).

(14)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to  .

(ii) Two assistants to  .

(15)  ,  . (1) All positions.

(16)   of  . (i) One private secretary and two technical assistants for each Judge of the  .

(ii) Until  , a   of the   and a Chief Deputy  .

(iii) One administrative assistant to the Presiding Judge.

(17)  ;  . (i) A Secretary to the  , two assistants to the Secretary, five Assistant Secretaries, a  , two assistants to the  , and four assistant Treasurers.

(ii) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to each of the following:  ; the Chairman of  . One private secretary or confidential assistant to each of the following; each Member of   (other than the Chairman); the Secretary of the  ; The Treasurer of the  ;  .

(iii) One assistant, and twelve special assistants, to  , and one assistant to each member of  .

(iv) Six administrative assistants and two junior administrative assistants in  .

(v) Six special representatives (field).

(vi) Four chauffeurs for the Chairman and the members of  .

(vii) All directors, trustees, and officers (President, Vice President,  , Assistant General Counsel, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,  , and Assistant  ) or subsidiary or affiliated corporations.

(viii) Any position where the incumbent thereof is serving as director or officer of any subsidiary or affiliated corporation.

(ix) One General Counsel, one Special Counsel and Six Assistant General  .

(x) A Chief Accountant.

(  of the following   Auditing,  ,  , Railroad, Self-Liquidating, Statistical and Economic, and Information.

(xii) Section Chiefs of the following  ,  .

(xiii) Six Assistant Chiefs and three Administrative Assistants in  .

( ) Two special examiners in  .

(xv) Not to exceed 32 positions of   Manager and 36 positions of Assistant Loan Agency Manager.

(xvi) Inventory custodians, watchmen, caretakers, and laborers engaged in the care and preservation of property held by the   or its subsidiaries as security for loans, or property to which title has been acquired by the   or its subsidiaries.

(xvii) Positions of Executive Director of the following offices:  ,  .

(xviii) Chief Administrative Officer of  .

(18)  . (i) Five special assistants to the Administrator.

(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Administrator.

(iii) Positions in   facilities when filled by the appointment of members of such facilities receiving domiciliary care if, in the opinion of  , the duties can be satisfactorily performed by such members.

(19)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to  .

 . (ii) Supervisors, assistant supervisors, and supervisors' clerks and enumerators in the field service for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment for not to exceed  .

Public Health Service. (iii) Special escorts to accompany patients of   in accordance with existing laws and regulations. Employment under this paragraph shall be only for the period of time necessary for the escort to deliver the patient to his destination and return.

(iv) Positions at Government sanatoria when filled by patients during treatment or convalescence.

(v) All positions in leprosy, yellow fever, psittacosis investigation stations.

(vi) Trainees in cancer research.

(vii) Positions concerned with problems in preventive medicine financed or participated in by   and a cooperating  , county, municipality, incorporated organization or an individual, in which at least one-half of the expense is contributed by the cooperating agency either in salaries, quarters, materials, equipment, or other necessary elements in the carrying on of the work.

(viii) Professional, technical, or scientific specialists when employed on a fee basis or part-time basis as consultants in connection with problems in preventive medicine, subject to the prior approval of the  .

(ix) Internes and externs (medical and dental) and student nurses.

St. Elizabeths [sic]  . (x) Visiting physicians and organist.

 . (xi) Professional, technical or scientific specialists when employed intermittently for short periods, not to exceed a total of   in any one year, as members of   for duty in connection with the formulation of definitions and standards of identity and quality for food products, or as consultants upon problems in their specialized fields having to do with the enforcement of  , and Cosmetic Act.

 . (xii) Pupil nurses, internes, and externs (medical and dental), student dietitians, and resident physicians.

(2)  . (i) All positions.

(21) U. S. Maritime Commission. (i) All positions on Government-owned ships operated by  .

(22) Twelve positions of Director of Division.

(iii) One assistant to each member of the   and two assistants to the Chairman of the  .

(iv) Ten special assistants to  .

(v) The Secretary of the  .

(vi)  .

(vii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner and to  .

(viii) The Executive Director.

(ix) The Financial Assistant to the Chairman.

(22)  . (i) One private secretary and one confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

(ii) A Secretary to the  .

(iii) Consultants, experts and special counsel whose employments and compensation are fixed by contract within the limits of special funds appropriated by   for this purpose.

(23)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

(ii) A Solicitor.

(iii) Director of  , Director of  , Director of  , and Director of  .

(iv) One Chief Accountant.

(v) One Assistant to the Chairman.

(24)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

(25)  . (i) Architectural or engineering consultants, land appraisers and land purchasing officers for temporary, intermittent, or part-time service.

(26)  . (i) Two special assistants, private secretaries, or confidential assistants to each member of  .

(ii) All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed banks or the liquidation of loans to bank, and all temporary field positions the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured banks.

(27)  . (i) Seven  .

(28)  . (i) The Executive Officer.

(29) United States Soldiers' Home. (i) All positions.

(30)  . (i) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by   and cooperating persons, organizations or governmental agencies outside the   service [sic].

In making appointments under this subdivision, a full report shall be submitted immediately by   to the  , setting forth the name, designation and compensation of the appointee and a statement of the duties to which he is to be assigned and of his qualifications for such duties in such detail as to indicate clearly that the appointment is properly made under this subdivision. The same procedure shall be followed incase of the assignment of any such agent to duties of a different character.

Office of the Administrator. (ii) Two expert assistants to the Administrator.

Public Buildings Administration. (iii) The Commissioner of Public Buildings.

(iv) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

Public Roads Administration. (v) The Commissioner of Public Roads.

(vi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

(31)  . (i) A Secretary to the  .

(ii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

(iii) A   and three Assistant General  .

(iv) A Chief Engineer and three Assistant Chief Engineers.

(v) A Chief Accountant and three Assistant Chief Accountants.

(32)  . (i) The Secretary of the   and one private secretary or confidential assistant to each Commissioner.

(33)  . (i) Two members of   to be selected by the  , one from recommendations made by representatives of the employees, and one from the recommendations made by the carriers.

(ii) Two members of   which may be established by  , one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the representatives of the employees and one from recommendations made by the carriers.

(34)  . (i) A Secretary to the  .

(ii) A general Counsel and two Assistant General  .

(iii) Two permanent expert consultants.

(iv) Professional, technical and scientific consultants for temporary, part-time or intermittent employment for periods not to exceed   in any one calendar year, but such employment may be extended for   with the approval of the  .

(v) A Chief Trial Examiner and an Assistant Trial Examiner.

(vi) Examiners employed on a temporary, part-time or intermittent basis for periods not to exceed   in any calendar year.

(vii) One confidential assistant to each member of the  .

(viii) A Director and two Assistant Directors of   and a Director and Assistant Director of  .

(35)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to each member of the  .

(36)  . (i) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Public Printer.

(37)  . (i) Two private secretaries or confidential assistant to the Chairman of   and one to each member of the  .

(ii) The President, three Vice-Presidents, the  , the Secretary.

(iii) Chiefs of the following  , and  .

(38) War Assts Administration. (i) Temporary field positions concerned with the inspection, inventory, pricing, sale, and shipping of surplus property at the site of the property.

(ii) Custodians, guards, watchmen, laborers, and other employees engaged in the custody, care and preservation of plants, warehouses, shipyards, airfields, and surplus facilities of a similar nature pending disposition of such facilities.

(39)  .  . (i) One Deputy Commissioner.

(ii) One Executive Assistant and one Assistant to the Commissioner.

(iii) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

(iv) One General Counsel and one Assistant to   in charge of financial matters and matters of financial policy referred to  .

(v) One Financial Adviser.

 . (vi) The Governor and three Deputy Governors of  .

(vii) One assistant to the Governor.

(viii) One Associate General Counsel.

 . (ix) One General Manager and two Deputy Managers.

(x) One Associate General Counsel.

(xi) All field positions concerned with the work of liquidating the assets of closed insurance institutions, or the liquidation of loans or the handling of contributions to insured institutions and the purchase of such assets therefrom, and all temporary field positions of   the work of which is concerned with paying the depositors of closed insured institutions.

 . (xii) One General Manager and two Deputy  .

(xiii) One Associate General Counsel.

 . ( ) Five Assistant Commissioners, two special assistants to the Commissioner, and five Zone Commissioners.

(xv) An Executive Secretary of the Administration.

(xvi) Two private secretaries or confidential assistants to the Commissioner.

(xvii) One chauffeur to the Commissioner.

(xviii) A general Counsel.

(xix) One assistant to the Commissioner on public relations.

(xx) Sixty-five field directors ( , District, and Territorial).

 . (xxi) One private secretary or confidential assistant to the Commissioner.

 (b)   The following positions are those excepted from the competitive service to which appointments may be made after such noncompetitive examination as the   shall prescribe, and constitute   of  :

(1)  . 9I) Any competitive position at an   school when filled by the wife of a competitive employee of the school, when because of isolation or lack of quarters, the   deems appointment through competitive examination impracticable.

(ii) Twelve field representatives to act as the immediate and confidential representatives of  , subject to such evidence of qualifications as the   may prescribe after consultation with  .

(2)  .  . (i) Administrative or custodial positions in the field service of   relating to the management or maintenance of Federal low-rent projects when, in the opinion of the  , appointment through competitive examination is impracticable: Provided, That no position shall be filled under this paragraph unless it is clearly demonstrated that the best interest of the service will be served thereby.

 . (ii) A Technical Director; a   Director; a Director of  .

(iii) A Comptroller.

(iv) Two land use planners.

(3)  . (i) Not to exceed six specialists who may be employed in   for the purpose of promoting the foreign and domestic commerce of  .

(4) War Department. (i) Positions of military storekeeper in   when filled by retired noncommissioned officers of  .

(ii) Any position outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of War the best interests of the service so require.

(iii) Positions assigned exclusively to   activities.

(5) District of Columbia Government. (i) Surgeons of the Police and Fire Departments of  .

(6)  . (i) Not to exceed five special experts.

(7)  . (i) Specialists in foreign relations, political, economic, and financial, whose proposed compensation is fixed at entrance rate of grade P-3 or higher, and whose training and experience along the lines of their proposed duties meet the standard minimum qualifications set up in open competitive examinations for positions in the professional service for corresponding grades.

(ii) Persons formerly employed abroad as   Diplomatic or consular officers of career or foreign-service officers of career for the period of  , for service in   as administrative officers or executive advisors in positions comparable in salary with the associate professional grade or higher.

(iii) Positions of professional and technical specialists in the fields of health and sanitation, food supply, education and transportation, in grade P-5 or its equivalent, in   and  , Incorporated, when filled by the appointment of persons who have served in such positions in the   service [sic] in foreign countries.

(8) Navy Department. (i) Positions assigned exclusively to  .

(ii) Any position outside the continental limits of   (except the Canal Zone and  ), when in the opinion of the Secretary of the   the best interests of the service so require.

(9)  . (i) One postal rate expert.

(10)  . (i) A General Counsel or two Assistant General  .

(ii) A Chief Examiner and a Chief Engineer.

(iii) Five regional engineers

(iv) A chief and an assistant chief of the following bureaus:   and  .

(11)  . (i)   or professional consultants or advisers, at salaries equivalent to entrance rate of grade P-5 or higher, for periods not to exceed  .

(ii) Farm Credit Administration: The Deputy Governor, Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, the Director and Assistant Director of  , and the Director of  .

(iii)   Special field representatives who serve as Vice Presidents of  .

(12)  . (i) Architectural or engineering consultants, construction supervisors, landscape planners, surveyors and related positions for temporary, intermittent or part-time service.

(13)  . (i)  : Assistant to cottage officers when filed by the appointment of bona fide students at colleges or universities at salaries not in excess of $720 per annum, subject to the approval of the  .

(ii) Special experts employed on a temporary basis for specific litigation or other legal work in which technical knowledge or particular industries, or knowledge of other highly technical matters not possessed by regular employees of the  , is required for successful results. Such temporary employment shall be only for such time as is required to complete the specific assignment for which the original appointment was approved.

PART III

The following Executive orders are hereby revoked:

No. 279 of  .

No. 283 of  .

No. 294 of  .

No. 314 of  .

  of  .

No. 715 of  .

No. 983 of  

No.   of  .

No.   of  .

No.   of  .

No. 3108 of  .

Unnumbered order of  , concerning reinstatement of persons nearing retirement age.

No.   of  .

No. 5924 of  .

Unnumbered order of  , concerning negotiations for transfer.

No. 7915 of June 24,  

No. 7916 of  .

No. 7975 -A of  .

No. 8083 of  .

No. 8179 of  .

No. 8257 of  

No.   of  .

No. 8300 of  .

No. 8423 of  .

No. 8425 of  .

No. 8467 of  .

No. 8564 of  .

No. 8587 of  .

No. 8705 of  .

No. 8707 of  .

No. 8760 of  .

No. 8894 of  .

No. 8937 of  .

No.   of  .

No. 9027 of  .

No. 9052 of  .

No. 9200 of  .

No.   of  .

No. 9298 of  .

No. 9333 of  .

No. 9394of  .

No.   of  .

No.   of  .

No. 9538 of  .

No. 9579 of  .

No. 9598 of  .

No.   of  .

No.   of  .

No.   of  

No. 9668 of  .

No. 9688 of  .

No. 9691 of  .

No. 9733 of  .
