WHEREAS section 4(j) of   of  , as amended by the act of  , Public Law 779, 81st  , provides in part as follows:

(j) The President shall establish   which shall advise   and shall coordinate the work of such   and local volunteer advisory committees as may be established to cooperate with  , with respect to the selection of needed medical and dental and allied specialist categories of persons as referred to in subsection (i). The members of   shall be selected from among individuals who are outstanding in medicine, dentistry, and the sciences allied thereto, but except for the professions of medicine and dentistry, it shall not be mandatory that all such fields of endeavor be represented on the committee.

In the performance of their functions,   and the   and local volunteer advisory committees shall give appropriate consideration to the respective needs of   and of the civilian population for the services of medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel; and, in determining the medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel available to serve the needs of any community, such committees shall give appropriate consideration to the availability in such community of medical, dental, and allied specialist personnel who have attained the fifty-0first anniversary of their birth.

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 4(j) of   of   as amended, it is ordered as follows:

1. There is hereby established   on  ,  , and   (hereinafter referred to as the  ), which shall be composed of such members as may be appointed by the President, and the chairman of which shall be designated by the President.

2. In performing its functions, as prescribed by the sad section 4(j) of   of   as amended, the   shall consult with the Director of   and with such other officials and agencies as may be necessary, including the Secretary of   and appropriate officials of  ,  , and  ,  ,  , and  .

3. All executive departments and agencies of   are requested to cooperate with the   and to furnish it such available information as it may require for the performance of its duties.

4.   shall defray necessary expenses of the  , including the compensation of the members thereof, within limits of applicable law.
