Executive Order  —  and Material Obtained From Advisory Bodies Created to Implement  
 
 

  has entered into the Agreement on an   of  , which created  . This program is a substantial factor in the conduct of our foreign relations and an important element of our national security. The effectiveness of the   depends significantly upon the provision and exchange of information and material by participants in advisory bodies created by  . Confidentiality is essential to assure the free and open discussion necessary to accomplish the tasks assigned to those bodies. I have consulted with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General and   concerning the handling and safeguarding of information and material in the possession of   which has been obtained pursuant to the program, and I find that some of such information and material requires protection as provided in Executive Order No.   of  , as amended.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Information and material obtained pursuant to   and which requires protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interest of the national defense or foreign relations of   shall be classified pursuant to Executive Order No.   of  , as amended. The Secretary of   shall have the responsibility for the classification, declassification and safeguarding of information and material in the possession of   which has been obtained pursuant to:

(a) Section 252 (c) (3), (d) (2) or (e) (3) of   (89 Stat. 871; 42 U.S.C.   (c) (3), (d) (2), (e) (3)), or

(b) The Voluntary Agreement and Program relating to   (40 F.R.  ), or

(c) Any similar   entered into under   after the date of this  .

 . 2. Information or material classified pursuant to Section 1 of this   may be exempted from the General Declassification Schedule established by Section 5 of Executive Order No.   if it was obtained by   on the understanding that it be kept in confidence, or if it might otherwise be exempted under Section 5 (B) of such  .

 . 3. (a) Within  , the Secretary of   shall promulgate regulations which implement his responsibilities under this  .

(b) The directives issued under Section 6 of Executive Order No.   shall not apply to information and material classified under this  . However, the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of   shall:

(1) conform, to the extent practicable, to the policies set forth in Section 6 of Executive Order No.  ; and

(2) provide that he may take such measures as he deems necessary and appropriate to ensure the confidentiality of any information and material classified under this   that may remain in the custody or control of any person outside  .

 

 ,

 .
