Executive Order 11890—Amending Executive Order No.  , as   to the Secretary General of   United States   or   on the Secretariat of the United Nations
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution, statutes, and treaties of  , including the Charter of the United Nations, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1.  , 2 and 3 of Part I of Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9,  , as amended, are hereby amended to read as follows:

"1. Whenever the Secretary of   receives, from the Secretary General of  , the name of and other necessary identifying data concerning each   citizen employed or being considered for employment by  , the Secretary of   shall, consistent with the Privacy Act of   (5 U.S.C. 552a) and other applicable law, cause an investigation to be conducted as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, or forward the information received from the Secretary General to  , which shall conduct an investigation, consistent with the Privacy Act of   (5 U.S.C. 552a) and other applicable law, as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Part.

"2. With respect to all applicants for short term appointments which will not exceed   and which are not appointments to   professional posts or posts subject to geographical distribution, the Secretary of   shall cause an investigation to be conducted, which investigation shall be limited to a search of the files of  . If the investigation reveals any derogatory information within the meaning of the standard set forth in Part II of this order, the information received from the Secretary General of the   shall be forwarded to   Service Commission, which shall conduct an investigation.

"3(a) Whenever   receives the information forwarded by the Secretary General to the Secretary of  ,   shall conduct a National Agency Check.   shall include reference to the following: (1)   files; (2) Civil Service Commission files; (3) Military Intelligence files as appropriate; and (4) files of any other appropriate Government investigative or intelligence agency.

(b) If the investigation conducted by   reveals that a favorable   was previously completed, and the investigation conducted by   has not disclosed any derogatory information within the meaning of the standard set forth in Part II of this order, completion of a new   is not required if: (1) the applicant is or was previously employed by the same or another international organization without an immediately prior break in such service exceeding  ; (2) the applicant is or was a   civilian or military employee, or a   contract employee, without an immediately prior break in such employment exceeding  ; or (3) the applicant is transferred or detailed from an agency of   pursuant to the provisions of sections  ,  ,  ,  , or 3584 of Title 5 of the United States Code.".

 . 2. Paragraph 2(f) of Part II of Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9,  , as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

"(f) Knowing membership with the specific intent of furthering the aims of, or adherence to and active participation in, any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons, which unlawfully advocates or practices the commission of acts of force or violence to prevent others from exercising their rights under the Constitution or laws of  , or of any  , or which seeks to overthrow   or any   or subdivision thereof by unlawful means.".

 

 ,

 .
