Executive Order  —Implementation of the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of   and Commander-in-Chief of  , in order to provide for the coming into force on  , of the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,   ( , 93d  ., 1st Sess.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) With respect to vessels of special construction or purpose, the Secretary of the  , for vessels of the  , and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, for all other vessels, shall determine and certify, in accord with Rule I of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,  , hereinafter referred to as the International Regulations, as to which such vessels cannot comply fully with the provisions of any of the International Regulations with respect to the number, positions, range or arc of visibility of lights or shapes, as well as to the disposition and characteristics of sound-signaling appliances, without interfering with the special function of the vessel.

(b) With respect to vessels for which a certification is issued, the Secretary issuing the certification shall certify as to such other provisions which are the closest possible compliance by that vessel with the International Regulations.

(c) Notice of any certification issued shall be published in  .

 . 2. The Secretary of the   is authorized to promulgate special rules with respect to additional station or signal lights or whistle signals for ships of war or vessels proceeding under convoy, and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, including the provisions of Title 14 of the United States Code, to promulgate special rules with respect to additional station or signal lights for fishing vessels engaged in fishing as a fleet. In accord with Rule I of the International Regulations, the additional station or signal lights of whistle signals contained in the special rules shall be, as far as possible, such as they cannot be mistaken for any light or signal authorized by the International Regulations. Notice of such special rules for fishing vessels shall be published in  .

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , for vessels of the  , and the Secretary of the   in which   is operating, for all other vessels, are authorized to exempt, in accord with Rule 38 of the International Regulations, any vessel or class of vessels, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a corresponding stage of construction, before  , from full compliance with the International Regulations, provided that such vessel or class of vessels complies with the requirements of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,  . Notice of any exemption granted shall be published in  .

 . 4. The Secretary of the   in which   is operating is authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to promulgate such rules and regulations that are necessary to implement the provisions of  . He shall cause to be published in  

any implementing regulations or interpretive rulings promulgated pursuant to this  , and shall promptly publish in  

the full text of the International Regulations.

 

 ,

 .
