Executive Order  — 
 
 

Under the provisions of Section 14 of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), each advisory committee created by the President or any other officer of   and subject to the provisions of this Act-in existence on the effective date of the Act,  -will terminate on  , unless renewed by the President or other appropriate officer.

During the period elapsed since   was enacted, all   advisory committees subject to that Act have been thoroughly examined and reexamined to determine whether they should be continued, modified, abolished, or allowed to terminate. In that period, more than 300   advisory committees have been abolished or allowed to terminate.

All advisory committees created by the President before the effective date of the Act and subject to the provisions of the Act have been carefully examined. I have determined that those listed in Section 1 of this   should be continued until  , unless terminated sooner. I have also determined that the advisory committees listed in Section 2 of this  , created after the effective date of  -expiring under the terms of that Act before  ,  -should be continued until that date, unless terminated sooner.

Now, THEREFORE, I,  , by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , particularly by  , do hereby order as follows:

SECTION 1. The following listed advisory committees are hereby continued until  , unless otherwise sooner terminated-

(1)  . 11472 of  , as amended ( ).

(2)  . 11342 of   ( ).

(3)  .   of   ( ).

(4)  .   of  , as amended ( , and  ).

(5) President's   and Sports-Executive Order No.   of   ( , and  ).

(6) Committee for the Preservation of the White House-Executive Order No.   of  , as amended ( ).

(7)   on the Status of Women-Executive Order No. 11126 of  , as amended ( ).

(8) President's   on  .   of   ( ).

(9)  .  , as amended ( ).

(10) President's Committee on  .  , as amended ( ).

(11) President's Commission on    .   of  , as amended ( ).

 . 2. The following listed advisory committees are hereby continued until  , unless terminated sooner-

(1) President's  .   of   ( ).

(2) President's  .   of   ( , and  ).

(3)  .   of   ( ).

(4)   of   ( ).

(5) Ad Hoc Advisory Group on   of   ( ).

 . 3. The department or agency listed after the advisory committees listed in Section 1 and Section 2 of this   shall perform such functions with respect to the committee involved as may be required by  .

 . 4. Advisory committees created by the President before  , which are subject to the provisions of  , and which have not been continued by Section 1 of this Order, will, unless sooner terminated under the provisions of  , terminate as of  .

 

 ,

 .
