Executive Order  —Establishing   Sinai Support Mission
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the joint Resolution of   (Public Law 94-110, 89 Stat. 572, 22 U.S.C.   note), the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.   et seq.), including but not limited to  , 621, 633, 901, and 903 thereof (22 U.S.C.  ,  ,  ,  ), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) In accordance with the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended, and notwithstanding the provisions of Part I of Executive Order No.  , as amended, there is hereby established   Sinai Support Mission, hereinafter referred to as the Mission.

(b) The Mission shall, in accordance with the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended, the joint Resolution of  , and the provisions of this order, carry out the duties and responsibilities of   to implement the "United States Proposal for the Early Warning System in  " in connection with the Basic Agreement between   and  , signed on  , and the   to the Basic Agreement, subject to broad policy guidance received through the Assistant to the President for national security affairs, and the continuous supervision and general direction of the Secretary of   pursuant to Section 622(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 2382(c)).

(c) It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Mission to ensure that   role in the Early Warning System enhances the prospect of compliance in good faith with the terms of the  -Israeli agreement and thereby promotes the cause of peace.

(d) At the head of the Mission there shall be a Director, who shall be appointed by the President. The Director shall be a Special Representative of the President. There shall also be a Deputy Director, who shall be appointed by the President. The Deputy Director shall perform such duties as the Director may direct, and shall serve as the Director in the case of a vacancy in the office of the Director, or during the absence or disability of the Director.

(e) The Director and Deputy Director shall receive such compensation, as permitted by law, as the President may specify.

 . 2. (a) The Director shall exercise immediate supervision and direction over the Mission.

(b) The Director may, to the extent permitted by law, employ such staff as may be necessary.

(c) The Director may, to the extent permitted by law and the provisions of this order, enter into such contracts as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order.

(d) The Director may procure the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants, in accordance with the provisions of Section 626 of the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), and section 3109 of title 5 of the United States Code.

(e) As requested by the Director, the agencies of the   branch shall, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent practicable, provide the Mission with such administrative services, information, advice, and facilities as may be necessary for the fulfillment of the Mission's functions under this order.

 . 3. (a) In accordance with the provisions of Section 633 of the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ), it is hereby determined to be in furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of  , as amended, that the functions authorized by that act and required by this order, may be performed, subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, by the Director without regard to the following specified provisions of law and limitations of authority:

(1) Section 3648 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 529).

(2) Section 3710 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 8).

(3) Section 2 of Title III of the Act of   (47 Stat.  , 41 U.S.C.  ).

(4) Section 3735 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 13).

(5) Section 3679 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (31 U.S.C. 665, Section 3732 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (41 U.S.C. 11), and Section 9 of the Act of   (34 Stat. 764, 31 U.S.C. 627), so as to permit the indemnification of contractors against unusually hazardous risks, as defined in Mission contracts, consistent, to the extent practicable, with regulations prescribed by   pursuant to the provisions of the Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C.   et seq.) and Executive Order No.   of  , as amended.

(6) Section 302(a) of   of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 252(a)), so as to permit the Sinai Support Mission to utilize the procurement regulations promulgated by   pursuant to Section 2202 of Title 10 of the United States Code.

(7) Section 304(b) of   of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 254(b)), so as to permit the payment of fees in excess of the prescribed fee limitations but nothing herein contained shall be construed to constitute authorization hereunder for the use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting.

(8) Section 305 of   of  , as amended (41 U.S.C. 255).

(9) Section 901(a) of the Merchant Marine Act,  , as amended (46 U.S.C. 1241(a)).

(b) It is directed that each specific use of the waivers of statutes and limitations of authority authorized by this Section shall be made only when determined in writing by the Director that such use is specifically necessary and in furtherance of the purposes of this   and in the interests of  .

 . 4. (a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of the following:

(1) The Secretary of  , or his representative.

(2) The Secretary of   or his representative.

(3) The Administrator,   for  , or his representative.

(4) The Director of   or his representative.

(5) The Director of   or his representative.

(6) The Director of   Sinai Support Mission or his representative.

(b) The Director of   Sinai Support Mission or his representative shall be Chairman of the  .

(c) The President may from time to time designate others to serve on, or participate in the activities of, the Board. The   may invite representatives of other departments and agencies to participate in its activities.

(d) The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman to assist; coordinate, and advise concerning the activities of   Sinai Support Mission.

 . 5. The Secretary of   shall, pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended, including Part V thereof, and this order, provide from funds made available to the President the funds necessary for the activities of   Sinai Support Mission.

 . 6. All activities now being undertaken by the Secretary of   to implement the "United States Proposal for the Early Warning System in  " shall be continued until such time as the Mission has become operational and the Director requests the transfer of those activities to the Mission. The Secretary of   may exercise any of the authority or responsibility vested in the Director, by this order, in order to continue the performance of activities related to   until transferred to the Director. All such activities undertaken by the Secretary of   shall be deemed to have been taken by the Director.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: For an announcement of the appointment of   as Special Representative of the President and Director of   Sinai Support Mission, see page 39 of this issue.
