Executive Order  —Performance by   of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including   (89 Stat. 871, 42 U.S.C.   et seq.),   of  , as amended (15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.),   of   (88 Stat. 246,15 U.S.C. 791 et seq.), the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.), the Energy Reorganization Act of   (88 Stat.  , 42 U.S.C.   et seq.), Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), Section 301 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and section 3301 of Title 5 of the United States Code, and consistent with the provisions of 5 CFR 351.301, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. There is hereby established in   of the President a  , which shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of an Administrator of  , hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, who shall be appointed by the President. The Administrator shall be compensated at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for level II of the Executive Schedule.

 . 2. Within the framework of  , the Administrator shall advise the President with respect to the establishment and integration of domestic and foreign policies relating to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy and with respect to all other energy matters, and shall perform such other functions as may be delegated to him pursuant to law.

 . 3. There shall be in   the following officers each of whom shall be appointed by the President and each of whom shall receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for that level of the Executive Schedule indicated: Two deputy administrators (level III); six assistant administrators (level IV); a general counsel (level IV); and a director of intergovernmental, regional and special relations (level V).

 . 4. The Administrator is hereby designated, pursuant to section 14 of   of  , as   for purposes of   of  , and section 119 of the Clean Air Act, as amended (   ).

 . 5.   established by this order is designated the agency to carry out all functions vested in   under  .

 . 6. There is hereby delegated to the Administrator all the authority that was delegated to   pursuant to Executive Order No. 11790 of   and Executive Order No. 11912 of  .

 . 7. The Administrator is designated a member of   established by the Energy Reorganization Act of   and Executive Order No.   of October 11,  , as amended, and shall perform the functions assigned by the President and by the Chairman of the  , who is the Secretary of  , to  .

 . 8. The Administrator shall exercise the functions of  .  , as amended.

 . 9. (a) All orders, rules, regulations, rulings, interpretations, or other directives issued or pending, all rule making, judicial or administrative proceedings commenced or pending, all voluntary agreements, plans of action, and all other actions commenced or taken by, under the authority of or ratified by   prior to the effective date of this order that would be valid under the authority delegated or transferred by this order, are hereby continued, confirmed, ratified and made effective under this order and shall remain in full force and effect, unless or until altered, amended, or revoked by the Administrator or by such competent authority as he may specify.

(b) All personnel, property, records, contracts, obligations, cooperative agreements, rights, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available, in connection with functions of   are hereby transferred to  .

(c) The Administrator is authorized to exercise the authority of the President under the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, to establish not more than eight positions and to appoint individuals to such positions compensated at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for level V of the Executive Schedule.

(d) All individuals who, immediately prior to the effective date of this order, are serving in or have been nominated to positions under   of  , which correspond to the   established in   by sections 1 and 3 of this order are, on the effective date of this order, appointed to the positions established in   by sections 1 and 3 of this order.

(e) All individuals appointed to and serving in positions in grades  ,   and 18 pursuant to   of  , which appointments have been approved as to classification and qualifications by  , shall be continued in such grade unless any such position is determined by   to involve responsibilities substantially less than those responsibilities involved when originally established pursuant to   of  . Continuation in such grades shall also be subject to allotment by   of available positions in grades  ,   and  .   shall discharge its responsibilities with respect to the allotment of positions in grades  ,   and 18 by providing, consistent with law, the efficiency of  , and the provisions of this order, for the allotment of sufficient positions in grades  ,   and 18 to carry out the fast sentence of this subsection (e) and to provide for such additional positions as the Administrator and   deem necessary.

(f) Nothing in the order shall affect rights to reemployment under the provisions of section 5(a) (1) (B) of   of  , as amended, or section 212 (g) of the Economic Stabilization Act of  , as amended. Any employee transferred pursuant to subsection (b) of this section having a right to reemployment under the provisions of section 28 of   of   shall retain that right during the period of his employment with   established by this order. Any employee of the Federal government appointed, without a break in service of one or more work days, to any position in   established by this order shall have the rights of reemployment provided by subpart B of Part 352 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

 . 10. The Administrator shall, before promulgating proposed rules, regulations, or policies affecting the quality of the environment, provide a period of not less than five working days from receipt of notice of the proposed action during which   may provide written comments concerning the impact of such rules, regulations, or policies on the quality of the environment. Such comments shall be published along with public notice of the proposed action. The review required by this section may be waived for a period of   if there is an emergency situation which, in the judgment of the Administrator, requires immediate action.

 . 11.   shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support as may be needed by  . All departments and agencies of the   branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide assistance and information to  .

 . 12. This order shall become effective on  .

 

 ,

 .
