Executive Order  —  for the Generalized System of Preferences Under the Trade Act of  
 
 

Title V of the Trade Act of  , hereinafter referred to as the Act (Public Law 93-618, 88 Stat.  ), provides for a Generalized System of Preferences by which eligible articles from a beneficiary developing country may be provided duty-free treatment.

The Act authorizes the President to designate a country as a beneficiary developing country if such country meets the qualifications of the Act. Prior thereto, the President is to notify   and the   of his intention to make such designations and of the considerations entering into such decisions. I have so notified   and the   with respect to the countries listed in this   order.

In order to implement  , the Trade Act requires (1) designation of beneficiary developing countries, (2) publication and transmission to   of the lists of articles which will be considered for designation as eligible articles for purposes of generalized preferences, and (3) submission by   of its advice to the President within   as to the probable economic effect on domestic producers and consumers of implementing generalized preferences for those listed articles.

Concurrently with publication of those listed articles and transmission thereof to   for its advice as required by the Act, I also intend to ask the   to provide its advice, pursuant to Section 332(g) of the Tariff Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), with respect to articles of those countries designated and those which are still under consideration for designation as beneficiary developing countries.

The President is authorized to modify at any time the list of beneficiary developing countries designated herein, and for that purpose there shall be a continuing review of the eligibility of countries to be so designated under the provisions of the Act.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Trade Act of  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The following named countries are designated as beneficiary developing countries for purposes of   authorized by Title V of the Act:

(a) Those Responsible for Their Own External Relations.

(b) Those for Whom Another Country is Responsible for Their External Relations.

 . 2. The following named countries are identified as under consideration for designation as beneficiary developing countries in accordance with the criteria set forth in Title V of the Act:

 

 ,

 .
