Executive Order 11814—Activation of  
 
 

In my address to the   on  , I expressed my intention to create a new  , under the chairmanship of the Secretary of the  , to develop, coordinate, and assure the implementation of Federal energy policy. Subsequent to my delivery of that address, the   completed action on the Energy Reorganization Act of   which I have just approved into law. Section 108 of that act creates in   of the President a new   which would be charged with performing functions that are essentially the same as those I had intended to assign to  . Consequently, I have determined that it would serve no useful purpose to create that  . Instead, I am now exercising the authority vested in me by section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of  , to activate immediately  , to designate the Secretary of the   as its Chairman, and to designate additional officials as members thereof.

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and laws of  , particularly section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of  , and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of   shall be effective as of the date of this order and   shall be deemed to have been activated as of that date.

 . 2. The   shall consist of the Secretary of the  , who shall be its Chairman, the Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Administrator of  , the Administrator of   (upon entry into office),  , the Chairman of  , the Director of  , the Executive Director of  , and such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate.

 . 3.   shall perform such functions as are assigned to it by section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of  , shall develop a single national energy policy and program, and shall perform such other functions as may be assigned to it, from time to time, by the President.

 . 4. All departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide it with such assistance and information as the Chairman of the   may request.

 . 5.  , the establishment of which was announced on  , is hereby abolished.

 . 6. The   shall terminate in accordance with the provisions of section 108 of the Energy Reorganization Act of  .

 

 ,

 .
