Executive Order  —Assigning Responsibilities Relating to Activities of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States of America, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 9 of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is amended to read:

"The   shall submit its final recommendations to the President not later than September 15,  , at which time it shall cease to exist."

 . 2. Any applications for Executive clemency, as to which   (established by Executive Order No.  ) has not taken final action shall be transferred, together with the files related thereto, to the Attorney General.

 . 3. The Attorney General, with respect to the applications and related files transferred to him by Section 2 of this  , shall take all actions appropriate or necessary to complete the clemency process and shall expeditiously report to the President his findings and recommendations as to whether Executive clemency should be granted or denied in any case. In performing his responsibilities under this  , the Attorney General shall apply the relevant criteria and comply with the appropriate and applicable instructions and procedures established by Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, Proclamation No. 4313 of  , as amended, Executive Order No.   of September 16,  , and, to the extent that he deems appropriate, the regulations of   and   issued pursuant to the foregoing Executive orders.

 . 4. The Director of   is hereby designated and empowered to take such action as he deems necessary to ensure the orderly and prompt termination of the activities of   and the assignment of responsibilities directed by this  .

 :. 5. Departments and agencies in the   branch shall, to the extent permitted by law, cooperate with and assist the Attorney General, the Director of   and the Director of   in the performance of their responsibilities under this  .

 . 6. The responsibilities assigned under this   are to be completed  , at which time the Attorney General shall submit his final recommendations to the President.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: For a statement by the President on   transition, see page   of this issue.
