1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Guard and Reserve Entrepreneurship Support Act of 2016
.
2.
Extension of loan assistance and deferral eligibility to reservists beyond periods of military
conflict
(a)
Small Business Act amendments
Section 7 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 636
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(3)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A)—
(i)
in clause (i), by striking
concern;
and inserting
concern; and
;
(ii)
by striking clause (ii); and
(iii)
by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii); and
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by striking
during a period of military conflict
; and
(2)
in subsection (n)(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
during a period of military conflict
;
(B)
by striking subparagraph (C); and
(C)
by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (C).
(b)
Applicability to disaster loans
Section 402(e)(2) of the Veterans Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Act of 1999 (
Public Law 106–50
;
15 U.S.C. 636
note) is amended by striking
as the result of a period of military conflict occurring or ending
.
3.
National Guard and Reserve Deployment Support and Business Training Program
(a)
Expansion of Small Business Administration outreach programs
Section 8(b)(17) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 637(b)(17)
) is amended by striking
and members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces
and inserting
members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, and the spouses of veterans and members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces
.
(b)
Establishment of program
Section 32 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 657b
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(g)
National Guard and Reserve Deployment Support and Business Training
In making grants carried out under section 8(b)(17), the Associate Administrator shall establish a program, to be known as the
National Guard and Reserve Deployment Support and Business Training Program
, to provide training, counseling and other assistance to support members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and their spouses. In carrying out this section, the Associate Administrator may—
(1)
modify existing programs and resources made available through section 8(b)(17) to provide pre-deployment and other information specific to members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and their spouses;
(2)
collaborate with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau or the Chief's designee, State Adjunct Generals or their designees, and other public and private partners; and
(3)
provide training, information and other resources to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau or the Chief's designee and State Adjunct Generals or their designees for the purpose of supporting members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and the spouses of veterans and members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces.
.
