118 HJ 138 IH: Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services relating to “Clarifying the Eligibility of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Recipients and Certain Other Noncitizens for a Qualified Health Plan through an Exchange, Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit, Cost-Sharing Reductions, and a Basic Health Program”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-05-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. J. RES. 138
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 8, 2024
Mr. Pfluger
(for himself,
Mrs. Fischbach
,
Mr. Bilirakis
,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Mr. Crenshaw
,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Ogles
, and
Mr. Balderson
) submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
JOINT RESOLUTION
Providing for congressional disapproval under
chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services relating to
Clarifying the Eligibility of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Recipients and Certain Other Noncitizens for a Qualified Health Plan through an Exchange, Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit, Cost-Sharing Reductions, and a Basic Health Program
.
That Congress disapproves the rule submitted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services relating to
Clarifying the Eligibility of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Recipients and Certain Other Noncitizens for a Qualified Health Plan through an Exchange, Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit, Cost-Sharing Reductions, and a Basic Health Program
(89 Fed. Reg. 39392 (May 8, 2024)), and such rule shall have no force or effect.
