1.
Establishment of advisory working group
(a)
Establishment; composition
There is established an advisory working group to carry out this section that shall consist of the following members:
(1)
The Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Curator of the House of Representatives.
(3)
The Curator for the Architect of the Capitol.
(4)
The Chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration.
(5)
The Chair and ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch of the Committee on Appropriations.
(6)
The Co-Chairs of the Congressional Bipartisan Women’s Caucus.
(b)
Responsibilities
The advisory working group shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Minority Leader, and the Committee on House Administration a written report that includes recommendations with respect to the following:
(1)
Two women whose portraits would be suitable for inclusion among the relief portraits of lawgivers placed above the doors to the public gallery of the Hall of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The planning, funding, and commissioning of the relief portraits of the women described in paragraph (1).
(3)
The installation of the relief portraits described in paragraph (2) in the Hall of the House of Representatives, including whether the relief portraits should replace any existing relief portrait.
(4)
A timeline for such installation that would minimize the disruptive effect of the installation on the business conducted in the Hall of the House of Representatives.
(c)
Coordination
The advisory working group shall designate two members among the individuals described in paragraphs (4) through (6), with the approval of the Speaker and the Minority Leader, to take such actions as are necessary for the advisory working group to carry out this section.
(d)
Consultation with experts
In carrying out this section, the advisory working group shall consult with the following:
(1)
Leading and reputable scholars with respect to the history of law, women’s history, and related disciplines of study and research.
(2)
Staff of the Library of Congress.
(e)
Deadline for submission
The advisory working group shall submit the report described in subsection (b) not later than the earliest of the following:
(1)
One year after the date of the adoption of this Resolution.
(2)
The end of the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.
