117 SCON 30 IS: Expressing the sense of Congress that the United Nations should take immediate procedural actions necessary to amend Article 23 of the Charter of the United Nations to remove the Russian Federation as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
U.S. Senate
2022-03-01
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
117th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 30
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 1, 2022
Mrs. Blackburn
(for herself,
Mr. Cramer
,
Mr. Grassley
,
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
,
Mr. Scott of Florida
,
Ms. Ernst
,
Mr. Tillis
,
Mr. Daines
, and
Mr. Wicker
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress that the United Nations should take immediate procedural actions necessary to amend Article 23 of the Charter of the United Nations to remove the Russian Federation as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
Whereas the United Nations Security Council is tasked with upholding international peace and security among the countries of the world;
Whereas the primary responsibility of the United Nations Security Council is to determine the existence of a threat to international peace or act of aggression and to recommend what necessary action should be taken;
Whereas Article 39 of the Charter of the United Nations states that
The Security Council shall determine the existence of any threat to the peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression and shall make recommendations, or decide what measures shall be taken in accordance with Articles 41 and 42, to maintain or restore international peace and security
;
Whereas the United Nations Security Council currently has five permanent members: the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, the People’s Republic of China, and the Russian Federation;
Whereas the acts of aggression and malign influence by the Russian Federation and its proxies in Ukraine are a threat to the territorial integrity and democratic sovereignty of Ukraine and run counter to both the letter and spirit of the Security Council’s responsibility to maintain peace and security;
Whereas the build-up of nearly 200,000 Russian Federation military troops, artillery, tanks, armor, and other military equipment on Ukraine’s border since March 2021 has significantly threatened the safety, security, stability, and sovereignty of Ukraine and has destabilized the security of the continent of Europe;
Whereas, on February 21, 2022, the Russian Federation deployed additional military forces into two Russian-declared separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, which are under Ukrainian government control;
Whereas, on February 22, 2022, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin recognized the independence of the two Russian-backed separatist republics in eastern Ukraine, the Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, and secured parliamentary authorization to deploy additional Russian forces abroad, setting conditions for a further offensive against Ukraine;
Whereas, on February 24, 2022, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin launched a well-coordinated disinformation campaign, announcing the start of a
special military operation
aimed at the
demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine
in order
to protect the people who have been abused by
the genocide
of the Kyiv regime for 8 years
;
Whereas, on February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation launched multiple unprovoked missile strikes in Kyiv, Ukraine, as well as in numerous key eastern Ukrainian cities, including Kharkiv, Odessa, Mariupol, Dnipro, and Kramatorsk, jeopardizing the safety of civilians and with the intent to strike Ukrainian military infrastructure, including airfields, military depots, air defenses, and command and control sites; and
Whereas the increased aggression of the Russian Federation against the sovereignty of Ukraine has destabilized the security of the continent of Europe and could cause massive casualties, energy shortages, and financial instability across the globe: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
condemns the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine’s sovereign territory and its ongoing support of proxy militias in the region, which together pose a direct threat to international peace and security and run contrary to its responsibilities and obligations as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council;
(2)
urges the President to direct the United States representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to take all necessary steps to remove the Russian Federation as a Permanent Member of the United Nations Security Council; and
(3)
urges other member states to support such efforts to hold the Russian Federation accountable at the United Nations by supporting such efforts.
