Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to provide for timely coordinated Federal decisions on critical energy facility permit applications, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. The Director of   shall establish a  .

1-102. The Director of  , after consulting with the   agencies listed in Section 1-103, shall make recommendations to the President as to which nonnuclear facilities should be included in the  . The President shall identify non-nuclear energy facilities which he deems to be of critical national importance and which need Federal permits for siting, construction, or operation. Those facilities shall be included in the  . The Director of   shall establish a system through which deadlines will be established for final administrative decision-making by Executive agencies, consistent with statutory requirements.

1-103. The following Executive agencies shall participate in the   and the Director of   may invite others to participate where appropriate:

(a) Department of the Interior.

(b)  .

(c)  .

(d)  .

(e)  .

(f) Environmental Protection Agency.

(g)  .

(h)  .

1-104. Each Executive agency in the   shall submit such data and information as the Director of   may require with respect to a critical energy facility, including:

(a) Date a completed application is expected to be received from the sponsors of a critical energy facility project.

(b) Targeted final decision date for each significant permit or statutory review.

(c) Compilation of the actions required of other Executive agencies before a participating Executive agency may make a final decision.

(d) Compilation of the actions required of non-Federal authorities before a participating Executive agency may make a final decision.

(e) Compilation of significant actions required of the applicant before a final decision may be made.

(f) Progress reports, including reasons for any changes in any targeted final decision dates.

1—105. On the basis of information received pursuant to Section 1-104, the Director of   will provide to the President, to the participating Executive agencies, to the Governor of any affected  , and to the applicant a schedule of deadlines for Federal actions concerning each critical energy facility.

1-106. The Director of   shall provide for appropriate interagency mechanisms for the conduct of multiple agency reviews; but, only where such reviews are consistent with the statutory obligations of the agencies, and only when such reviews will assist in the expeditious processing of facility permits.

1-107. The Director of   shall assist participating Executive agencies with the establishment of joint   and local agency reviews. Such assistance shall be limited to those circumstances which are consistent with the legal obligations of the reviewing   and local agencies, and which will result in the expeditious processing of facility permits.

1-108. The Director of   shall keep the President informed on agency performance in meeting scheduled decision deadlines.

1-109. The Director of   shall, where appropriate, coordinate the procedures established herein with those procedures adopted by   pursuant to Executive Order No.   (40 CFR Parts  ).

1-110. Nothing in this   is intended to modify in any way (a) the review and decision-making responsibilities imposed by   statutes, or (b) the opportunity for timely   and local government and public participation in agency decision-making.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:21 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .
