Executive Order  —President's Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide, in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. 1 ), an independent forum to investigate and explain the recent accident at the nuclear power facility at Three Mile Island in  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment.

1-101. There is established   on the Accident at Three Mile Island.

1-102. The membership of the   shall be composed of not more than twelve persons appointed by the President from among citizens who are not full time officers or employees within  . The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

1-2. Functions.

1-201. The   shall conduct a comprehensive study and investigation of the recent accident involving the nuclear power facility on   in  . The study and investigation shall include:

(a) a technical assessment of the events and their causes;

(b) an analysis of the role of the managing utility;

(c) an assessment of the emergency preparedness and response of   and other Federal, state and local authorities;

(d) an evaluation of   licensing, inspection, operation and enforcement procedures as applied to this facility;

(e) an assessment of how the public's right to information concerning the events at Three Mile Island was served and of the steps which should be taken during similar emergencies to provide the public with accurate, comprehensible and timely information; and

(f) appropriate recommendations based upon the  's findings.

1-202. The   shall prepare and transmit to the President and to     a final report of its findings and recommendations.

1-3. Administration.

1-301. The Chairman of the   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff of such persons as may be necessary to discharge the  's responsibilities, subject to the applicable provisions of   and Title 5 of the United States Code.

1-302. To the extent authorized by law and requested by the Chairman of the  ,   shall provide the   with necessary administrative services, facilities, and support on a reimbursable basis.

1-303.   and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such facilities, support, funds and services, including staff, as may be necessary for the effective performance of the  's functions.

1-304. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice or assistance as it deems necessary to carry out its functions. Each such agency is directed, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information, advice or assistance upon request by the Chairman of the  .

1-305. Each member of the   may receive compensation at the maximum rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for   such member is engaged in the work of the  . Each member may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-306. The functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  .

1-4.  .

1-401. The final report required by Section 1-202 of this   shall be transmitted not   from the date of the  's first meeting.

1-402. The   shall terminate   after the transmittal of its final report.

.JIMMY CARTER

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:46 a.m.,  ]
