Executive Order  —  on the International Year of the Child,  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States of America, in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I) and   resolution of   which designated   as the International Year of the Child, and as President of  , in order to provide for the observance of the International Year of the Child within  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established   the International Year of the Child,  , hereinafter referred to as the  .

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than 25 persons appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. The President shall designate the Chairman and two Vice Chairmen.

(c) The President of the   and the Speaker of   are invited to designate two Members of each   to serve on the  .

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall plan for and promote the national observance in   of   as the International Year of the Child. The   shall coordinate its efforts with local,  , national, and international organizations, including   (UNICEF).

(b) In promoting this observance, the   shall foster within   a better understanding of the special needs of children. In particular, the   shall give special attention to the health, education, social environment, physical and emotional development, and legal rights and needs of children that are unique to them as children.

(c) The   shall keep informed of activities by organizations and groups in   and abroad in observance of  . The   shall consult with, and stimulate activities and programs through, community, civic,  , regional, national   and international organizations.

(d) The   may conduct studies, inquiries, hearings and meetings as it deems necessary. It may assemble and disseminate information, issue reports and other publications. It may also coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects, studies, events and other activities that it deems necessary or desirable for   as the International Year of the Child.

(e) The   shall make recommendations to the President on national policies for improving the well-being of children; shall issue periodic reports on discrete areas of the rights and needs of children; and shall submit,  , an interim report to the President on its work and tentative recommendations.

 . 3. Resources,  , and Cooperation. (a) The   may establish subcommittees. Private citizens who are not members of the   may be included as members of subcommittees.

(b) The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information, advice, services, and funds as may be useful for the fulfillment of the  's functions under this order. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information, advice, services, and funds to the   upon request of the Chairman of the  .

(c) The   is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of a staff and such other persons as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. The   may obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United States Code, to the extent funds are available therefore.

(d) Each member of the   and its subcommittees may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he or she is engaged officially in meetings of the   or its subcommittees at a rate not to exceed the   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-15 of the General  ; and, may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons in the government service employed intermittently.

 . 4. Coordination. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall designate an agency representative for purposes of coordinating agency support for the national observance of the International Year of the Child,  .  , designated by the Secretaries of State and Health, Education, and  , of   should act as advisers to, and coordinate activities with, the Chairman of the  .

(b)   shall provide administrators services, facilities, and support to the   on a reimbursable basis.

(c) The functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by   as provided by Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 5.  . The   shall conclude its work and submit a final report to the President, including its recommendations for improving the well-being of children,   prior to its termination. The   shall terminate on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:07 p.m.,  ]
