Executive Order  —  and Other Personnel Functions
 
 

RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF CERTAIN EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT

AND OTHER PERSONNEL FUNCTIONS

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II), Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the' United States Code, and as President of  , in order to transfer certain functions from the Director of   to  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The following functions which heretofore have been performed by the Director of  , either alone or in conjunction with  , are hereby reassigned and delegated to  :

(a) Providing overall Executive Branch leadership, regulation, and guidance in executive personnel selection, development, and management including:

(1) Devising and establishing programs and encouraging agencies to devise and establish programs to forecast the need for career executive talent and to select, train, develop, motivate, deploy and evaluate the men and women who make up the top ranks of Federal civil service;

(2) Initiating and leading efforts to ensure that potential executive talent is identified, developed and well utilized throughout   and;

(3) Ensuring that executive training and motivation meet current and future needs.

(b) Studying and reporting on issues relating to position classification and the compensation of Federal civilian employees, including linkages among pay systems, and providing reports on average grade levels, work-years and personnel costs of Federal civilian employees.

(c) Providing primary Executive Branch leadership in (1) developing and reviewing a program of policy guidance to departments and agencies for   responsibility under   program; and (2) monitoring issues and trends in labor management relations for referral to appropriate   officials including  .

 . 2. Section 1 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection:

"(d) The delegation to the Director of   following executive development and personnel functions (which have been transferred to  ) is terminated on  : (1) Providing overall Executive Branch leadership, regulation, and guidance in executive personnel selection, development and management.

(2) Studying and reporting on issues relating to position classification and the compensation of Federal civilian employees, including linkages among pay systems, and providing reports on average grade levels, work-years and personnel costs of Federal civilian employees.

(3) Providing primary Executive Branch leadership in (i) developing and reviewing a program of policy guidance to departments and agencies for the organization of management responsibility under   program; and (ii) monitoring issues and trends in labor management relations for referral to appropriate   officials including  .".

 . 3. Executive  .  , as amended, is further amended by amending Section 25(a) to read as follows:

" , in conjunction with the Director of  , shall establish and maintain a program for the policy guidance of agencies on labor-management relations in the Federal service and shall periodically review the implementation of these policies.   shall be responsible for the day-to-day policy guidance under that program.   also shall continuously review the operation of the   labor-management relations program to assist in assuring adherence to its provisions and merit system requirements; implement technical advice and information programs for the agencies; assist in the development of programs for training agency personnel and management officials in labormanagement relations; and, from time to time, report to   of the program with any recommendations for its improvement."

 . 4. Section 5 (a) of Executive Order No.   of  , establishing an   as a committee of  , is amended by deleting: "The representative of   shall be the Chairman of the  " and substituting therefor "The representative of   shall be the Chairman of the  ".

 . 5. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred or reassigned by this   from   to  , are hereby transferred to  .

 . 6. The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

 . 7. This   shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:59 p.m.,  ]
