Executive Order  — 
 
 

AMENDING THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V and Section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.; 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and as President of  , in order to modify, as provided by Section 504(c) of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2464(c)), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, and to adjust the original designation of eligible articles taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of Sections 503(a) and 131-134 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2463(a); 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2151-2154), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is further amended as provided in Annex II, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex III, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex IV, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the   is modified-

(i) by adding, in alphabetical order, to the list of independent designated beneficiary developing countries for the purposes of  ", " ", and "Seychelles"; and by deleting from the list of non-independent designated beneficiary developing countries and territories "Comoro Islands", "French Territory of the Afars and  ", and "Seycheiles."

(ii) by deleting from the list of independent designated beneficiary developing countries "Central-African Republic", "Congo (Brazzaville)", "Maldive Islands", and "Republic of China", and by substituting therefor, in alphabetical order, "  Empire", "Congo", "Maldives", and " ", respectively.

(iii) by deleting from the list of nonindependent designated beneficiary developing countries "Falkland Islands (Malvinas) and  ", "Pitcairn Island", and "Spanish Sahara", and by substituting therefor, in alphabetical order, "Falkland Islands ( )", "Pitcairn Islands", and "Western Sahara", respectively.

(iv) by deleting from the list of nonindependent designated beneficiary developing countries " ."

 . 6. The amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles that are both: ( 1 ) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after  .

 . 7. Effective  , Annex II to Executive Order  , as amended, is further amended by deleting item 652.97,  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:30 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in  .
