Executive Order  —  
 

RELATING TO CERTAIN FUNCTIONS TRANSFERRED TO THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY BY  

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , in order to reflect the responsibilities of the Secretary of Energy for the performance of certain functions previously vested in other officers of   by direction of the President and subsequently transferred to the Secretary of   pursuant to   (91 Stat. 565; 42 U.S.C.   et seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Functions of  . In accordance with the transfer of all functions vested by law in  , or the Administrator thereof, to the Secretary of   pursuant to Section 301 (a) of  , hereinafter referred to as the Act,   referred to in this Section, which conferred authority or responsibility upon the Administrator of  , are amended as follows:

(a) Executive Order No.  , as amended, relating to  , is further amended by deleting " " in Section 1 (a) (10) and substituting " ", and by deleting "The Deputy Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration" in Section 3(a) (10) and substituting "The Deputy Secretary of  ".

(b) Executive Order No. 11790 of  , relating to   of  , is amended by deleting "Administrator of  " and "Administrator" wherever they appear in   I through 6 and substituting "Secretary of  " and "Secretary", respectively, and by deleting Sections 7 through 10.

(c) Executive Order No.  , as amended, relating to energy policy and conservation, and Proclamation No.  , as amended, relating to imports of petroleum and petroleum products, are further amended by deleting "Administrator of  ", " ", and "Administrator" (when used in reference to  ) wherever those terms appear and by substituting "Secretary of  ", " ", and "Secretary", respectively, and by deleting "and  " in Section 1 (b) of Executive Order No.  , as amended.

 . 2. Functions of  . In accordance with the transfer of functions vested in   to the Secretary of   pursuant to Section 301 (b) of the Act,   referred to in this Section, which conferred authority or responsibility upon  , or Chairman thereof, are amended or modified as follows:

(a) Executive Order No. 10485 of  , relating to certain facilities at the borders of   is amended by deleting Section 2 thereof, and by deleting " " and "Commission" wherever those terms appear in  , 3 and 4 of such   and substituting for each "Secretary of  ".

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to the administration of   of  , is hereby amended by deleting the second sentence in Section 1, by deleting "the Secretary of the  ,  , other members of   and" in Section 2, and by deleting "Chairman of  " and "Chairman" wherever those terms appear and substituting therefor "Secretary of  " and "Secretary", respectively.

(c) Paragraph (2) of Section 3 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, relating to  , is hereby amended by deleting "from each of the following   departments and agencies" and substituting therefor "to be appointed by the head of each of the following Executive agencies", by deleting " " and substituting therefor " ", and by deleting "such member to be appointed by the head of each department or independent agency he represents,".

 . 3. Functions of the Secretary of the  . In accordance with the transfer of certain functions vested in the Secretary of the   to the Secretary of   pursuant to Section 302 of the Act,   referred to in this Section, which conferred authority or responsibility on the Secretary of the  , are amended or modified as follows:

(a) Sections 1 and 4 of Executive Order No. 8526 of  , relating to functions of  , are hereby amended by substituting "Secretary of  " for "Secretary of the  ", by adding "of the Interior" after "Secretary" in   and 3, and by adding "and the Secretary of  ," after "the Secretary of the  " wherever the latter term appears in Section 5.

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , relating to  , is amended by deleting "Secretary of the  " and "Department of the  " wherever those terms appear and substituting therefor "Secretary of  " and " ", respectively.

 . 4. Functions of   and  .

(a) In accordance with the transfer of all functions vested by law in   to the Secretary of   pursuant to Section 301 (a) of the Act,   referred to in this Section are amended or modified as follows:

(1) All current   which refer to functions of  , including Executive Order No.  , as amended; Executive Order No.  , as amended; Executive Order No.   of  ; Executive Order No. 11057 of  ; Executive Order No. 11477 of August 7,  ; Executive Order No.   of  ; and Executive Order No.   of   are modified to provide that all such functions shall be exercised by (1) the Secretary of   to the extent consistent with the functions of   that were transferred to   pursuant to   1974 (Public Law 93438; 88 Stat.  ), and (2)   to the extent consistent with the functions of   that were transferred to the   by the Energy Reorganization Act of  .

(2) Executive Order No.  , as amended, relating to the classification of national security matters, is further amended by substituting " " for " " in   2(A), 7(A) and 8 and by deleting " " in  ) (3).

(3) Executive Order No. 11902 of  , relating to export licensing policy for nuclear materials and equipment, is amended by substituting "the Secretary of  " for "the Administrator of the United States Energy Research and Development Administration, hereinafter referred to as the Administrator" in Section l(b) and for the "Administrator" in   and 3.

(4) Executive Order No.  , as amended, relating to foreign intelligence activities, is further amended by deleting " ", "Administrator of  ", and "ERDA" wherever those terms appear and substituting " ", "Secretary of  ", and " " respectively.

(5) Section 3(2) of each of the following   is amended by substituting " " for " ":

(i) Executive Order No.  , as amended, establishing the Great Lakes River Basin Commission.

(ii) Executive Order No.  , as amended, establishing the New England River Basin Commission.

(iii) Executive Order No.  , as amended, establishing the Ohio River Basin Commission.

(iv) Executive Order No.  , as amended, establishing the Missouri River Basin Commission.

(v) Executive Order No.  , as amended, establishing the Mississippi River Basin Commission.

 . 5. Special Provisions Relating to Emergency Preparedness and Mobilization Functions.

(a) Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by adding thereto the following new Sections:

" . 609. Effective  , the Secretary of Energy shall exercise all authority and discharge all responsibility herein delegated to or conferred upon (a)  , and (b) with respect to petroleum, gas, solid fuels and electric power, upon the Secretary of the  .

" . 610. Whenever   believes that the functions of an Executive agency have been modified pursuant to law in such manner as to require the amendment of any Executive order which relates to the assignment of emergency preparedness functions or the administration of mobilization programs, he shall promptly submit any proposals for the amendment of such Executive orders to the Director of   in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order No.  , as amended.".

(b) Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by adding thereto the following new section:

"Sec.  . Effective  , the Secretary of Energy shall exercise all authority and discharge all responsibility herein delegated to or conferred upon (a)  , (b)  , and (c) with respect to electric power, petroleum, gas and solid fuels, upon  .".

 . 6. This   shall be effective as of  , the effective date of   pursuant to the provisions of Section 901 thereof and Executive Order No.   of  , and all actions taken by the Secretary of Energy on or after  , which are consistent with the foregoing provisions are entitled to full force and effect.

 

 ,

 .
