Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S: . I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of members appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

(c) The Secretary of   shall designate an   Secretary.

 . 2. ('a) The Board shall, whenever requested, make confidential recommendations to the Secretary of   and the President as to the qualifications of individuals for an ambassadorial post for which noncareer individuals are being considered, and such other advice as the President shall request.

(b) In considering the qualifications of a prospective nominee, the   shall consider such background information on the requirements of particular ambassadorial posts, evaluation criteria, and information regarding the prospective nominee which may be furnished by  ; and the   shall consider such other information as it deems appropriate in order to render an informed judgment concerning a prospective nominee's qualifications and suitability.

 . 3. Upon request by the President or the Secretary of  , the   shall consider which ambassadorial posts should be filled by career people and which should be filled by noncareer people, and shall make its recommendations in confidence regarding same to them.

 . 4. Board members may not be appointed to an .ambassadorial post during their service on the   nor for   thereafter. The President may waive this provision in specific cases and will in such cases state his reasons for doing so.

 . 5. Members of the   who are not officers or employees of the   shall receive no compensation from   for their service as members of the  , but may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ) for persons employed intermittently in the government service.

 . 6. The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative and staff services, support, .and facilities for the  .

 . 7. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 8. The   shall terminate on  , unless extended prior to that date.

 

 ,

 .

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .
