Executive Order  —Withholding of Income or Employment Taxes by  
 
 

WITHHOLDING OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,

STATE AND CITY INCOME OR EMPLOYMENT TAXES

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Sections   and   of Title 5 of the United States Code, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Whenever the Secretary of the   enters into an agreement pursuant to Sections  , or 5520 of Title 5 of the United States Code, with  , a  , or a city, as the case may be, with regard to the withholding, by an agency of  , hereinafter referred to as an agency, of income or employment taxes from the pay of Federal employees or members of  , the Secretary of the   shall ensure that each agreement is consistent with those sections and regulations, including this  , issued thereunder.

 . 2. Each agreement shall provide (a) when tax withholding shall begin, (b) that the head of an agency may rely on the withholding certificate of an employee or a member of   in withholding taxes, (c) that the method for calculating the amount to be withheld for  ,   or city income or employment taxes shall produce approximately the tax required to be withheld by   or   law, or city ordinance, whichever is applicable, and (d) that procedures for the withholding, filing of returns, and payment of the withheld taxes to  ,   or city shall conform to the usual fiscal practices of agencies. Any agreement affecting members of the   shall also provide that the head of an agency may rely on the certificate of legal residence of a member of   in determining his or her residence for tax withholding purposes. No agreement shall require the collection by an agency of delinquent tax liabilities of an employee or a member of  .

 . 3. The head of each agency shall designate, or provide for the designation of, the officers or employees whose duty it shall be to withhold taxes, file required returns, and direct payment of the taxes withheld, in accordance with this  , any regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the  , and the applicable agreement.

 . 4. The Secretary of the   is authorized to prescribe additional regulations to implement Sections  , and   of Title 5 of the United States Code, and this  .

 . 5. Executive  . 10407 of  ,   of  , and  , are hereby revoked. However, all actions heretofore taken by the President or his delegates in respect of the matters affected by this   and in force at the time of the issuance of this  , including any regulations prescribed or approved by the President or his delegates in respect of such matters and any existing agreements approved by his delegates, shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this  , remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this  , unless sooner terminated by operation of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:11 p.m.,  ,  ]

Note: The Executive order was not issued in the form of a   press release.
