Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me by the Trade Agreements Act of  , the Trade Act of  ,   of  , section 350 of the Tariff Act of  , Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  , and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1-101.  .

(a) Except as may be otherwise expressly provided by law,   (hereinafter referred to as  ") shall be chief representative of   for:

(1) all activities of, or under the auspices of, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade;

(2) discussions, meetings, and negotiations in   when trade or commodity issues are the primary issues under consideration;

(3) negotiations in   and other multilateral institutions when trade or commodity issues are the primary issues under consideration;

(4) other bilateral or multilateral negotiations when trade, including East-West trade, or commodities is the primary issue under consideration;

(5) negotiations under sections 704 and 734 of the Tariff Act of   (   ); and

(6) negotiations concerning direct investment incentives and disincentives and bilateral investment issues concerning barriers to investment.

For purposes of this subsection, the term "negotiations" includes discussions and meetings with foreign governments and instrumentalities primarily concerning preparations for formal negotiations and policies regarding implementation of agreements resulting from such negotiations.

(b) The Trade Representative, in consultation with  , shall invite such members of   and representatives of other departments or agencies as may be appropriate to participate in the negotiations and other activities listed in subsection (a).

(c) The Trade Representative, in consultation with  , may delegate to any member of  , or to any other appropriate department or agency, primary responsibility for representing   in any of the negotiations and other activities set forth in subsection (a).

(d) The Trade Representative, or any department or agency to which responsibility for representing   in a negotiation or other activity has been delegated pursuant to subsection (c), shall consult with   and with any affected regulatory agencies on the policy issues arising in connection with the negotiations and other activities listed in subsection (a).

SECTION 1-102.  .

(a) As provided by section 242 of the Trade Expansion Act of   (19 U.S.C.  ),   (hereinafter referred to as  ") is continued. The   shall have the functions specified by law or by the President, including those specified in section 1 (b) (3) of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979.

(b) The   shall be composed of the following:

(1) The Trade Representative, who shall be Chair

(2) The Secretary of  , who shall be Vice Chair

(3) The Secretary of  

(4) The Secretary of the  

(5) The Secretary of  

(6) The Attorney General

(7) The Secretary of  (8) The Secretary of Agriculture

(9) The Secretary of  

(10) The Secretary of  

(11) The Secretary of Energy

(12) The Director of  (13) The Chairman of  

(14) The Assistant to the President for  

(15) The Director of  .

The   and any member of the   may designate a subordinate officer whose status is not below that of an Assistant Secretary to serve in his stead when he is unable to attend any meetings of the  . The   may invite representatives from other agencies to attend the meetings of the  .

(c) (1) There is established, as a subcommittee of the  , a Trade Negotiating Committee which shall advise   on the management of negotiations referred to in section 1-101 (a) of this order. The members of such subcommittee shall be  ), the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  .

(2) The Trade Representative, with the advice of the  , may create additional subcommittees thereof.

(d) In advising the President on international trade and related matters, the   Representative shall take into account and reflect the views of the members of the   and of other interested agencies.

SECTION 1—103.  .

(a) The function vested in the President by section 412(b) of   of   (19 U.S.C.   (b)) is delegated to the Secretary of Commerce with regard to the technical office established under section 412 (a) (1) of such Act and to the Secretary of Agriculture with regard to the technical office established under section 412(a)(2) of such Act. In prescribing the functions of each technical office, the Secretary concerned shall consult with   and with all affected regulatory agencies. The functions delegated by this section shall be exercised in coordination with the Trade Representative.

(b) The functions of the President under sections 2(b) and 303 of the Trade Agreements Act of   (19 U.S.C.   (b) and  ) and section 701(b) of the Tariff Act of   (19 U.S.C. 1671(b)) are delegated to  , who shall exercise such authority with the advice of  .

SECTION 1—104. Authority Under the Foreign Service Act and Related Laws.

(a) The Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary") is authorized to establish   in  , and a category of career officers of   to be known as Foreign Commercial Officers. For purposes of the utilization by the Secretary of the authorities granted to the Secretary under this section, the terms "Foreign Service" and "Foreign Service Officer" shall be construed to mean  " and "Foreign Commercial Officer", respectively.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), and except with regard to career ministers and career ambassadors, the Secretary is authorized to exercise, with respect to   commercial officers,   officers,   staff officers and employees, and alien clerks and employees employed to perform the functions transferred under section 5(b) (1) of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), all authority available to the Secretary of   under the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or under any other existing or future provision of law applicable to    , Foreign Service staff officers and employees, and alien clerks and employees. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, the prescription of regulations incident to the exercise of such authority.

(2) All provisions of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended, or of any other existing or future law, that apply to   officers,   officers,   staff officers and employees, or alien clerks and employees of   shall be applicable to Foreign Commercial officers,   officers,   officers, Foreign staff officers and employees, or alien clerks and employees of  .

(3) There are excluded from the authority granted to the Secretary by paragraph (1) the following powers now vested in or delegated to the Secretary of  :

(A) to issue regulations pertaining to overseas differentials and allowances;

(B) to administer   under title VIII of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.   et seq.); and

(C) to commission or to recommend that   officers,   officers, and   staff officers as diplomatic and consular officers under sections 512, 514,  , and 533 of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C. 907, 909, 924, and 938).

(5) The Secretary is authorized to exercise, with regard to the functions transferred under section 5(b) of the  , the authority of the Secretary of   under section 4 of the Act of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ) to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to the performance of such functions.

(c)   and   for   established by Executive Order  , as amended, shall exercise with respect to   personnel of   the functions delegated to them by that order with respect to   personnel of  . The Boards shall perform such additional functions with respect to   personnel of   as the Secretary may from time to time delegate or otherwise assign, consistent with the functions of such boards.

SECTION 1-105.   and  .

(a) Section l(b) of     of  , as amended, is amended by adding " ," after "the Secretary of  ,".

(b) (1) Section 1 of Executive Order  , is amended to read as follows:

"Section 1.  , with the concurrence of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , is authorized to negotiate bilateral agreements with representatives of governments of foreign countries limiting the export from the respective countries and the importation into   of (1) fresh, chilled, or frozen cattle meat, (2) fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of goats and sheep (except lambs), and

(3) prepared and preserved beef and veal (except sausage) if articles are prepared, whether fresh, chilled, or frozen, but not otherwise preserved, that are the products of such countries.".

(2) Section 4 of such order is amended by striking out "the Secretary of  " and inserting in lieu thereof "  Representative".

(c) The last sentence of section 1 (a) of Executive Order  , as amended, is amended to read as follows: " , or his designee, also shall be a member of the  .".

(d) The first sentence of section 3 of Executive Order   of  , is amended to read as follows: "The Oil Policy Committee shall henceforth consist of  , chair, and the Secretaries of State,  ,  , the Interior, Commerce and Energy, the Attorney General, and the Chairman of  , as members.".

(e) Sections 2(b) and 3(a), the first sentence of section 3(c), and sections 3 (e), 3(f), and 6 of Executive Order  , as amended, are revoked.

(f) (1) Section l(a)(5) of Executive Order   of  , is amended to read: "(5)   Representative".

(2) Section 1(a) (6) of such order is amended to read: "(6) The Chairman of  ".

(g) Executive Order  , is revoked.

(h) The last paragraph of   (dated  ) (44 FR 74781, at  ;  ), delegating functions under section 2 (b) of   of   and section 701 (b) of the Tariff Act of  , is revoked.

(i) Any reference to   or to   in any Executive order, Proclamation, or other document shall be deemed to refer to   or to  , respectively.

SECTION 1—106.  .

So much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with functions transferred or reassigned by the provisions of this order as the Director of   shall determine shall be transferred or reassigned for use in connection with such functions.

SECTION 1—107.  .

(a) Sections 1, 2(a), 2(b)(2), 2(c), 2(d), 3,  , 5(a), 5(b) (2), 5 (c) through (e), and 6 through 8 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of  , and the provisions of this order, shall take effect as of  .

(b) Section 5(b) (1) of such plan shall take effect as of  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:59 a.m.,  ]
