Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on matters relating to the use of coal in meeting energy demand in  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment.

1-101. There is established  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of nine members appointed by the President, none of whom shall be an officer or a full-time employee of  . The President shall designate one of the members to  .

1-2. Functions.

1-201. Whenever requested by the President or the Secretary of  , the   shall advise the President and the Secretary of   on matters pertaining to labor-management relations in the coal industry, to mine safety, and to productivity in the coal industry.

1-202. The   shall, from time to time, advise the President or the Secretary of   on other issues when the President or the Secretary specifically request the advice of the   on a particular matter.

1-3. Administration.

1-301. The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

1-302. Members of the   shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the  , members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate   from the date of this  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:11 p.m.,  ]
