Executive Order  —President's   
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of not more than nine members who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members.

 . 2. (a) The   shall review at least the analyses, findings, and recommendations related to military compensation which have been completed by  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(b) The   shall identify, study, and make recommendations on critical military compensation issues, specifically addressing the following issues:

(1) What form of military compensation is the most effective for meeting the needs of the   in peace and war? Is the present pay and allowances system appropriate? If not, what changes (such as some form of military salary) offer greater potential to serve the national purpose?

(2) Are specific standards appropriate and necessary for setting and adjusting military compensation? If so, what should the standards be? What elements of compensation should be based on such standards?

(3) What provisions are appropriate for differential compensations) such as special and incentive pays) and what are the appropriate criteria for using them?

(4) What are the purposes of the military retirement system? Is the present system effective in achieving these purposes? What changes are appropriate?

(5) Should the unique characteristics of military service be reflected in the compensation system, and, if so, how?

(c) The   shall submit a report to the President through the Secretary of   by  . The report shall recommend how the military compensation system can best be structured to serve the national interest. If changes are recommended, the   should estimate their cost and propose an implementation plan and timetable.

 . 3. In performing its functions the   shall conduct such studies, reviews, and inquiries as may be necessary. In addition to conducting open meetings in accordance with  , the   shall conduct public hearings to identify critical issues and possible solutions related to the structure of military compensation.

 . 4. The   is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information that may be deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this  . Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information to the   in the performance of its functions under this  .

 . 5. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed in   may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he or she is engaged in the work of the   at a rate not to exceed the maximum   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-18 of the General  , and may also receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

 . 6. The Chairman of the   is authorized to establish such additional advisory committees as may be deemed appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

 . 7. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by  .

 . 8. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 9. The   shall terminate   after submitting its report.

 

 ,  .

[Filed with  , 4:42 p.m.,  ]
