Executive Order  —President's   
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to create in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory committee on   participation in  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of Committee.

1-101. There is established   on  ). The members will be the Secretaries of Labor,  , and  , the Assistant to the President for  , and the Presidents of   and  , or their designated representatives.

1-102. The Chairman of the   shall be the Secretary of  . The   shall meet at the request of the Chairman.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall monitor and assess the work of the ILO.

1-202. The   shall make recommendations to the President or other officers of the Federal government, including the Secretary of  . With due recognition that in the ILO tripartite system, government, employer, and employee representatives retain the right to take positions independent of one another, the   shall exert its best efforts to develop a coordinated position as to   policy on   issues.

1-203. The   shall also perform other functions relevant to relations with the   as requested by the President or the   Chairman.

1-3. Funding and Expenses.

1-301. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed full-time by the Federal government may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for   he is engaged in the work of the   at a rate not to exceed the maximum   rate now or hereafter prescribed by law, and may also receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-302. The Chairman of the   is authorized to establish such additional advisory committees as may be deemed appropriate to carry out the purposes of this  .

1-303. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities and expenses of the   shall be furnished by   to the extent permitted by law.

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President applicable to the   under  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , are hereby delegated to the Secretary of  , who shall perform them in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate on  , unless this date is extended by further   order.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:15 p.m.,  ]
