Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code and Sections 201 and 205 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  , not having been disapproved by   ( . 126, 125  . Rec. S   ( );  . 199, 125  . Rec. H   ( ) ), shall be effective on  .

1-102. In accord with Section 201 of that Plan, there is hereby established   for the system for the transportation of   natural gas ("the System") as such system is defined in the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Act of   (15 U.S.C. 719 et seq.).

1-103. The   shall consist of the Secretaries of   Labor,  , and the  ,  , the Chief of Engineers of  , and the Chairman of  . Additional members may be elected to the   by vote of a majority of the members. The   will by majority vote elect a Chairman to serve for a   term.

1-104. The Board shall perform the following functions:

(a) Advise the Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System ( ") established by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of  , on policy issues in accord with applicable law and existing   or   policies.

(b) Provide advice, through  , to the officers representing and exercising the functions of   that concern the System ("Agency Authorized Officers").

(c) Advise   and the Agency Authorized Officers on matters concerning enforcement actions.

(d)  , assess the progress made and problems encountered in constructing the System and make necessary recommendations to  .

1—105. The   shall keep the   informed of the progress made and problems encountered in the course of construction of the System.

1-106. Whenever the Federal Inspector determines that implementation of   or   enforcement policies and procedures would require action inconsistent with Section 9 of the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Act of  , the   shall issue a written statement of such determination including a complete factual and legal basis for the determination. A copy of each statement shall be forwarded promptly to the   and made available to the public by  .

1-107. After written notice of a proposed enforcement action is given by  ,   will be subject to the rules of procedure for ex parte contacts as reflected in the guidelines and policies of   from which the specific enforcement authority is transferred.

1-108.   and all employees of   shall be subject to the provisions of Executive Order No.  , concerning standards of conduct for Federal employees. The   shall issue standards of conduct, pursuant to the  , for  .

1-109. To the extent permitted by law, each   shall cooperate with and furnish necessary information and assistance to the   in the performance of its functions.

I-110. This   shall be effective on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 9:13 a.m.,  ]
