Executive Order  —  for the Purchase of   Bonds
 
 

ESTABLISHING THE INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE FOR THE PURCHASE OF  

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall consist of a Chairman, who is to be appointed by the President for a term of  , and the heads of Federal agencies. Each member of the   is responsible for the success of   in his agency.

(b) Members of the   may designate an alternate, who shall serve as a member of the   whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting of the  . The alternate member may be authorized to act for the regular member in all appropriate matters relating to the  . In the case of an executive or military department, a Deputy Secretary or an Under Secretary may be designated as an alternate member. In the case of any other Federal agency, the alternate member shall be designated from among the officials thereof of appropriate rank.

(c) The Chairman will designate   of  ,  , to act as his liaison officer with members of the  .

 . 2. The   shall perform the following functions and duties:

(a) Formulating and presenting to the   agencies a plan of organization and sales promotion whereby  , hereinafter referred to as the  , will be made available to all uniformed and civilian personnel of the government for the purchase of  , and whereby all such personnel will be urged to participate.

(b) Assisting the   agencies in installing the   and in solving any special problems that may develop in connection therewith.

(c) Acting as a clearinghouse for Federal agencies in compiling and disseminatins such statistics and information with respect to the implementation and sales promotion of the   as may be appropriate.

(d) Recommending to the   agencies any methods for improvements in the program adopted pursuant to the  .

(e) The   will meet, and will be available to meet with the President, at least once each calendar year and at such other times as may be necessary to carry out its responsibilities.

 . 3. Each Federal agency shall institute and put into operation, as soon as practicable, a plan of organization and sales promotion recommended by the  , with such modifications as particular circumstances may render advisable.

 . 4. As used in this  , the term "Federal agencies" means departments, agencies, and establishments of the   branch of the Government.

 . 5. This   supersedes Executive  . 11532 of June 2,  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:15 p.m.,  ]

Note: The President signed the   order at an   ceremony attended by  , Director of  ,  , Secretary of the  , and   officials from  .
