Executive Order  —Defense Economic Adjustment Programs
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, in order to provide coordinated Federal economic adjustment assistance necessitated by changes in   activities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Functions of the Secretary of  .

(a) The Secretary shall, through  , design and establish   to assist in the alleviation of serious economic and social impacts that result from major   realignments. The program shall provide for:

1. Identification of Defense-related impact problems of  , metropolitan areas, or communities that require assistance.

2. Preparation of development strategies and action plans to coordinate   and local economic adjustment efforts.

3. Strengthened and uniform economic impact analysis and analysis of community requirements for Federal economic adjustment resources, prior to base realignment action.

4. Timely and earliest possible consultation and cooperation with local,   and   officials concerning impact problems and coordinated interagency and intergovernmental adjustment assistance.

5. A clearinghouse service to exchange information among  , State and local officials involved in the resolution of community adjustment problems; e.g., previous studies, technical information, and sources of public and private financing.

6. Application of consistent policies, practices, and procedures in the administration of Federal programs that are utilized to assist   impact communities.

7. Encouragement of effective   and regional cooperation and concerted involvement of public interest groups and private sector organizations in   adjustment activities.

8. Development, with representatives of appropriate agencies, of uniform criteria for the determination .of social economic impact of a particular realignment.

9. Identification and strengthening of existing agency mechanisms to better coordinate employment opportunities for displaced agency personnel.

10. Increased attractiveness to the private sector of interim usage of lands and buildings and ways of streamlining property disposal procedures to enable impacted communities to acquire base property for job-generation purposes as military activities phase down.

(b) The Secretary of   shall ensure that sufficient resources and personnel are allocated to carry out these functions.

 . 2.  . (a)   is hereby continued.

(b) The   shall be composed of the following, or a principal deputy, and such others as the President may designate:

(1) The Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  .

(2) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(3) The Secretary of  .

(4) The Secretary of  .

(5) The Secretary of  , and  .

(6) The Secretary of  .

(7) The Secretary of the  .

(8) The Secretary of  .

(9) The Secretary of  .

(10) The Attorney General.

(11) The Chairman,  .

(12) The Director of  .

(13) The Director of  .

(14) The Administrator of  .

(15) The Director of  .

(16)  .

(17) The Administrator of  .

(18) The Chairman of  .

(c) The   shall advise, assist, and support the Secretary of   activities.

(d) The Secretary of   shall provide all necessary administrative support for the  .

 . 3. Responsibility of Executive Agencies.

(a) The head of each agency represented on   shall designate a permanent representative to: (1) serve as liaison with the Secretary of  's economic adjustment staff, (2) coordinate agency support and participation in assistance projects, and (3) assist in resolving community impact problems.

(b) All Executive agencies shall:

(1) Support, to the extent permitted by law, the economic adjustment assistance activities of the Secretary of  . Such support shall include the use and application of personnel, technical expertise, legal authorities, and available financial resources to the extent required to provide a coordinated Federal response to the needs of individual communities,  , and regions adversely affected by necessary   changes.

(2) Afford priority consideration to community requests for Federal technical assistance, financial resources, excess or surplus property, or other requirements that are part of a comprehensive plan issued by  .

 . 4. Construction. Nothing in this   shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:15 p.m.,  ]
