Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 11 of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (42 FR 62461 ( )), Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , in order to provide for the establishment of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (42 FR 62461), which establishes  , except for Section 7(a) (14) thereof, is hereby effective.

(b) Section 7(a)(14) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of  , relating to   of  , shall be effective on  .

 . 2. The functions vested in the Secretary of   by Executive Order No.   are assigned and redelegated to the Director of  . All authority vested in   or its Director by Executive order is reassigned and redelegated to   or its Director, respectively.

 . 3. In order to ensure appropriate coordination among the   agencies, the Director of   shall exercise primary responsibility for Governmentwide policy guidance for international informational, educational, and cultural activities, including exchange programs. The Director shall take into account the statutory functions of the other concerned Executive agencies.

 . 4. The Director of  , with the assistance of the Secretary of  , and  , shall prepare and submit to the President the reports which the President is to transmit to the   pursuant to Section 108(b) of   of  , as amended (22 U.S.C.  ).

 . 5. The functions vested in the President by Sections 108(c) and 108(d) of   of  , as amended, are delegated to the Director of  ; because, (a) such a delegation is in the interest of the purposes expressed in that Act and the efficient administration of the programs undertaken pursuant thereto, (b) the Director is an appropriate official to perform those functions, and (c) those functions are not now delegated to any other officer of the Government.

 . 6. The Director of   shall be the principal adviser to the President,  , and the Secretary of   on international informational, educational, and cultural matters. As such, the Director shall provide advice within the policy formulation activities of   when such matters are considered. The Director shall ensure that the senior official of the   at each diplomatic mission provides advice to the Chief of Mission on such matters. The scope of the Director's advice shall include assessments of the impact of actual and proposed   foreign policy decisions on public opinion abroad.

 . 7. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred or reassigned, or redelegated as provided in this  , are hereby transferred to the Director of  .

 . 8. The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided in this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

 . 9. This   shall be effective on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1: 14 p.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released on  .
