Executive Order  — 
 
 

AMENDING THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended by   of   (93 Stat. 315), Section 604 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ), and Section 503(a) (2) (A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), and as President of  , in order to modify, as provided by Section 504(c) of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C. 2464(c) ), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, to adjust the original designation of eligible articles taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of Sections 503(a) and 131-134 of the Trade Act of   (88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.  ; 88 Stat.  , 19 U.S.C.   et seq.) and to modify the designations of beneficiary developing countries in accord with my notifications to  . and  , and in accord with technical changes in the identification of certain beneficiary developing countries, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. In order to subdivide existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex II attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3 (c) (iii) of the  , is amended by substituting therefor the new Annex III, attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is amended by substituting therefor the General Headnote 3(c) (iii) set forth in  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 5. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the   is modified—

(a) by deleting from the list therein of independent countries designated as beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the   " ", in order to withdraw from   the status of a beneficiary of the  ,

(b) by deleting from the same list, " ", in order to withdraw from   the status of a beneficiary of the  ,

(c) by adding, in alphabetical order, to that list of independent countries " ", " ", " ", and " ", and to the list of designated nonindependent countries and territories "Southern Rhodesia ( )", in order to designate these same countries as beneficiaries of the  , and

(d) (i) by deleting from the list of designated beneficiary nonindependent countries and territories "Dominica", "Gilbert Islands", "Saint Lucia", "Saint Vincent", and "Tuvalu", and

(ii) by adding, in alphabetical order, "Dominica", " ", "Saint Lucia", "Saint Vincent and the  ", and "Tuvalu" to the list of designated independent countries.

 . 6. General  ) of the   is modified-

(a) by deleting from the list of least developed developing countries ( 's) " ",

(b) by deleting from the same list " ",

(c) by adding, in alphabetical order, " " to that list.

 . 7. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Presidential Proclamation 4707 of  , is amended by Annex V to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 8. In order to provide special treatment for the least developed developing countries ( 's) with regard to   items 727.11 and 727.12,   Presidential Proclamation 4707 of  , is amended by   to this  , attached hereto and made a part hereof.

 . 9. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as the corresponding rate of duty inserted in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I or VI of this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 10.   and IV of Presidential Proclamation 4707 of  , are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 11. Effective  , Annex II to Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by adding, in numerical sequence, the following   item numbers, created by section (B) of   I of this Order: 740.11, 740.12, 740.13,  , and 740.15. Also effective  ,   to Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by deleting current   item 740.10.

 . 12. The modifications to the   made by   I of this   shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after the effective dates specified therein.

 . 13. The amendments made by  , III, and IV of this  , and the modifications made to General Headnotes 3(c) (i) and 3(d) (i) of the   by sections 5(c) and 5(d) and section 6(c), of this  , respectively, shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on and after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after  .

 . 14. (a) The amendments made by   (a) and 6 (a) of this   shall be effective on  .

(b) The amendments made by Sections 5(b) and 6(b) of this   shall be effective on the date of publication of this   in  .

 . 15. The amendments made by   shall be effective on  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:33 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes are printed in  .
