Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , in accordance with the provisions of   (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to amend the organization and responsibilities of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101.   is continued and redesignated the President's  .

1-102. The President shall appoint not more than thirty individuals to serve on the  . The President shall designate one member to chair the   and may designate two members as vicechairs.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall advise the President on a regular basis of initiatives needed to promote full equality for   women.

1-202. The   shall assist in reviewing the applicability of such initiatives, including recommendations of the    , to particular programs and policies.

1-203. The   shall provide advice on appropriate ways to promote the national observance of   (   ).

1-204. 'The   shall gather information relating to its responsibilities and shall disseminate such information, through newsletters or other appropriate means, to   and to interested members of the public.

1-205. The   shall consult regularly with  , whose existence is continued by Section 1-402.

1-206. The   shall establish such procedural regulations as are necessary to carry out its responsibilities.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   may request any agency of   of the government to furnish it with such information, advice, funds and services as may be useful for the fulfillment of the  's functions under this  . Such agencies are authorized, to the extent permitted by law, to honor the  's requests.

1-302. Each member of the   may receive compensation at the maximum rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for   such member is attending a regularly scheduled meeting of the   or a subcommittee thereof. Each member may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402.   (created by Section 6 of Executive Order No.  ) is continued.

1-403. The   shall conclude its work and   make a final report to the President by  , at which time it shall terminate.

1-404. Executive  .  , except for Section 6, and Executive Order No.  , are revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:20 a.m.,  ]
