Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create in accordance with   (5 U.S.C. App. I) an advisory committee on  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of Commission.

1-101. There is established  . The   shall be composed of five members.

1-102. The members of the   shall be appointed by the President. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall recommend appropriate alternate dates for holding   in the Fall of 1979.

1-202. The   shall recommend issues to be considered by the  , including those relating to fostering of small business and the expansion of opportunities for entry into small business enterprises.

1-203. The   shall recommend candidates for delegates to the Conference. It shall seek the majority of representatives from those engaged in small business activity, but shall also include others interested in small business concerns, such as government regulators, financiers, public interest and academic representatives.

1-204. Prior to  , the   shall hold open regional and local meetings or conferences. These open meetings shall seek to identify the specific issues which should be addressed at the   and shall solicit candidates for Conference delegates.

1-205. The   shall make periodic recommendations to the President and  , and shall offer such other advice at such times as the Administrator may request.

1-3. Administrative Provisions.

1-301. The   may request any Executive agency to furnish such information as may be useful in fulfilling the  's functions. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information to the  .

1-302. Each member of the   who is not otherwise employed by   shall receive no compensation from   by virtue of their service on the  , but all members may receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and  ).

1-303. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by  .

1-4. General Provisions.

1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   shall be performed by   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

1-402. The   shall terminate on  , or   after the conclusion of  , whichever is sooner.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:02 a.m.,  ]
