Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including the National Security Act of  , as amended, and as President of  , in order to reflect certain organizational changes for the control and direction of intelligence activities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Table of Contents of Executive Order No.   of  , is amended by deleting " " and "Operations Advisory Group" and substituting therefor " " and " " respectively.

 . 2. Section 2(d) of Executive Order No.   is amended by deleting " " and substituting therefor " ".

 . 3. Section 3(a) of Executive Order No.   is amended by adding thereto the following new paragraph:

"(4)   and   assist   in the performance of its functions. Membership on each committee includes, in addition to  , such members as the President may direct. In addition to the performance of policy development and coordination responsibilities which may be assigned by the President, these committees are responsible for those duties specified by this  .".

 . 4. Section 3(b) of Executive Order No.   is amended as follows:

(a) In the title,  " and substitute therefor " ".

(b)   paragraph (1) and substitute the following new paragraph:

"(1) Whenever  , hereinafter referred to as the  , performs the functions assigned in this  , the   shall be chaired by the Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the  , and include as members the Deputy Secretary of  , the Deputy Assistant to the President for  , and a senior representative of the Secretary of  .".

(c) In paragraphs (2) through (5), delete "CFI" wherever it occurs and substitute therefor " ".

(d) Insert in paragraph (3) immediately after the word "supported" the words "in its functions under this  ".

(e) Insert in paragraph (4) immediately after the last word the words "under this Order".

(f) Insert in paragraph (5) immediately before the word "may" the words "under this Order".

 . 5. Section 3(c) of Executive Order No.   is amended as follows:

(a) In the title, delete " " and substitute therefor " ".

(b)   paragraph (1) and substitute therefor the following new paragraph:

"(1) Whenever  , hereinafter referred to as the SCC, meets to perform the functions assigned in this  , the SCC shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for   and include the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , Director of   and Chairman of  , as members, and the Attorney General and Director of  , as observers.".

(c) In paragraphs (2) through (4),  " wherever it occurs and substitute therefor "SCC".

 . 6. Section 6 of Executive Order No.   is amended as follows:

(a) In paragraph (1) of subsection (a), delete "The members of   may also serve on the President's   (Executive Order No.   of  ).".

(b)   subsection (f).

 . 7. Section 8(a) of Executive Order No.   is amended by deleting the words " " and substituting therefor " ".

 

 ,

 .

Note: The Executive order was not issued in the form of a   press release.
