Executive Order    for a National Agenda for the Eighties
October  
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and by the   of  , including  , 5 U.S.C. App. I, and 3 U.S.C. 301, in order to establish an independent forum to recommend for this Nation an Agenda for the Eighties and to recommend approaches for dealing with the major issues which will confront the   people during  , it is ordered:

1-1. Establishment and Structure

1-101. There is hereby established   for a National Agenda for the Eighties.

1-102. The   shall be composed initially of fifty members appointed by the President from among private citizens of  . Upon the request of the  , the President shall select and appoint no more than fifty additional members.

1-103. The President shall designate the Chairperson of the Commission. The  , following consultations with   members, shall designate no more than fifteen members of the   to constitute an  .

1-104. The members of the   shall not receive compensation for their service on the  , but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence.

1-2. Functions and Reports

1-201. Under the direction of  , the   shall identify and examine the most critical public policy challenges of the  's. It shall examine issues related to the capacity for effective Federal governance, the role of private institutions in meeting public needs, and underlying social and economic trends, as these issues bear on our public policy challenges in the  's. Areas to be reviewed by the   shall include:

(a) underlying trends or developments within our society, such as the changing structure of our economy, the persistence of inflationary forces, demands on our natural environment, and demographic shifts within our population that will shape public choices in the  's;

(b) opportunities to enhance social justice and economic well-being for all our people in the  's;

(c) the role of private institutions, including the non-profit and voluntary sectors, in meeting basic human needs and aspirations in the future;

(d) defining the role of the public sector, and financing its responsibilities in the  's;

(e) impediments to building policy consensus, both within government—the   branch,  ,   and local government—and within the   as a whole.

Within this framework, the   shall identify the specific issues appropriate for examination.

1-202. The Chairperson of the   shall organize the   to study and make recommendations on major subject matter areas. This shall include the authority to appoint study panels and their chairpersons.

1-203.   shall coordinate the work and act on behalf of the   as necessary.

1-204. The   shall make every feasible effort to ensure citizen participation in the development of its Agenda and recommendations. The  , in preparing its recommendations, shall also consult with the   and with   and local officials.

1-205. The   shall prepare a final report .setting forth its recommendations for addressing its Agenda for the Eighties and shall present the report to the President and to the   by  .

1-206. The   shall terminate on  .

1-3. Staff and Support

1-301. The Chairperson of the   shall appoint an Executive Director of the  .

1-302. To the extent permitted by law, Executive Agencies shall provide funds, facilities, support, services and assistance for the   and its subgroups, and such information and advice as the   may request.

1-303. Notwithstanding Executive Order  , the functions of the President under   (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting   to  , shall be performed by the Director of   with regard to the   and its subgroups. The Director is authorized to further delegate these responsibilities.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:08 p.m.,  ]
