Executive Order  —Statistical Policy Functions
 
 

RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF CERTAIN STATISTICAL POLICY  

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II), Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , in order to transfer certain functions from the Director of   to the Secretary of   and for other purposes, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  , is amended by adding thereto the following new subsection:

"(c) The delegation to the Director of  , pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section, of the functions vested in the Director of   of   of   (31 U.S.C.  ) and subsequently transferred to the President by Part I of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II) is terminated on  .".

 . 2. Executive  . 10253 of  , is amended as follows:

(a) "Director of  " is deleted in Section 1 and "Secretary of Commerce" is substituted.

(b) "Director" is deleted wherever it appears in  ,  ,  ,  , and 6 and "Secretary" is substituted therefor.

(c) "Bureau of the Budget" is deleted in Section 6 and " " is substituted.

(d) a new Section 8 is added as follows:

" . 8. The performance of the functions vested in the Secretary by this   shall be subject to any authority or responsibility vested in the Director of  , including Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code (the Federal Reports Act) .".

 . 3. Executive  .  , as amended, is .further amended as follows:

(a) "Director of  " is deleted in Section 1 and "Secretary of Commerce" is substituted.

(b) "Director" is deleted wherever it appears in  , 2(a), 2(b), 2(c), 3,  , and 5 and "Secretary" is substituted therefor.

(c) A new Section 7 is added as follows:

"Sec. 7. The performance of the functions vested in the Secretary by this   shall be subject to any authority or responsibility vested in the 'Director of  , including Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code (the Federal Reports Act) .".

 . 4. Section 4 of Executive Order No. 11961 of  , is amended by deleting--

"  shall perform the function of making periodic reports to the Committees of the   as set forth in Section 4(a) (3) of the Act" and substituting  

"the Secretary of   shall perform the functions set forth in Sections 4(a) (3) and (5)(c) of the Act".

 . 5. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred or reassigned from the Director of   to the Secretary of   by the delegations made in this  , are hereby transferred to the Secretary of  .

 . 6. The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all steps necessary or appropriate to ensure or effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

 . 7. The Secretary of   shall provide advice to the Director of   with respect to the review and preparation of that portion of the annual   dealing with the gathering, interpreting, and disseminating of statistics and statistical information.

 . 8. (a) There is hereby established  , hereinafter referred to as the  , which shall be composed of the following members, and such other heads of Executive agencies as the President may designate:

(1) The Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman.

(2) The Secretary of  .

(3) The Secretary of the  .

(4) The Secretary of  .

(5) The Attorney General.

(6) The Secretary of the  .

(7) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(8) The Secretary of  .

(9) The Secretary of  , and  .

(10) The Secretary of  .

(11) The Secretary of  .

(12) The Secretary of  .

(13) The Chairman,  .

(14) The Director of  .

(15) The Chairman,   of   is invited to be a member.

(b) The Chairman may designate any other member to act as Chairman during the absence of the Chairman. Each member of the   may designate an alternate to serve whenever the regular member is unable to attend any meeting. The Chairman may invite the heads of other Executive agencies or their alternates to participate in   deliberations whenever matters which affect the interests of such agencies are to 'be considered.

(c) The   shall advise and assist the President with respect to the improvement, development, and coordination of Federal and other statistical services, and shall perform such other related duties as the President may prescribe.

(d) The Secretary of  , to the extent permitted by law, shall provide such administrative support and such funds as may be necessary to support the functions of the  .

(e) Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information and assistance as the   or the Chairman may request to assist in carrying out the functions of the  .

 . 9. Any rules, regulations, orders, directives, circulars, or other actions taken pursuant to the functions transferred or reassigned from the Director of   to the Secretary of   by the delegations made in this  , shall remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the delegations made in this  .

 . 10. This   shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11: 59 a.m.,  ]

Note:   announced the   order on  . It was not issued in the form of a   press release.
