Executive Order  —Synthetic Fuels
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by Sections 305 and 703(a) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  , and 2153(a) ), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to achieve production of synthetic fuel to meet national defense needs and to provide for an orderly transition of synthetic fuel responsibilities to  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-101. The functions vested in the President by Sections 305(f) (1) and 305 (f) (2) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   (f) (1) and (2)), are delegated to the Secretary of  .

1-102. The Secretary of   shall, after consulting with the Secretary of  , determine the quantity and quality of synthetic fuel which is needed to meet national defense needs from time to time. This determination shall be made in accord with Section 305(f) (1) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, and shall promptly be furnished to the Secretary of  .

1-103. In accord with Section 305(f) (1) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, the Secretary of   shall ensure that his determination of the national defense needs for synthetic fuel does not include any synthetic fuel which the Secretary anticipates will be resold by the Government.

1-104. The functions vested in the President by subsections (b) (1) (A) (i) and (ii), (c) (1)(B), (c) (3), (d)(2), (d) (3), ( ), (d) (6), (e), and (g) (2) (c) of Section 305 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.  ), are delegated to the Secretary of  .

1-105. The Secretary of  , to the extent practicable, shall apply laws regarding the procurement of goods and services by the Government to the terms and conditions contained in purchase contracts awarded under subsection (b) (1) (A) (i) of Section 305 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended. The terms and conditions of these contracts shall be subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of  .

1-106. The Secretary of Energy shall, after consulting with the Secretary of  , exercise the functions delegated to him under Section 305 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, in order to meet the national defense needs for synthetic fuel as determined by the Secretary of  .

1-107. The Secretary of Energy shall exercise the functions delegated to him under Section 305 of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended, in a manner consistent with an orderly transition to the separate authorities established pursuant to   of  , as provided by Section 305(a)(1)(B) (iii) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended.

1-108. The Secretary of  , after consulting with the Secretary of  , shall prepare for the President's transmittal to the   the report required by Section 106 of the Energy Security Act (Public Law 96-294). The proposed report shall be submitted to the President for his consideration   prior to the date on which it is to be transmitted to the  .

1-109. No new awards for purchases or commitments for financial assistance shall be made under the provisions of this   after the date on which the President determines that   is established and fully operational. That determination is to be made in accord with Section 305 (k) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   (k)), and in accord with the appropriations to   and the   pursuant to   and Rescission Act,   (  96-304; 94 Stat. 857, 880-882).

1-110. No award for a purchase or commitment for financial assistance shall be made which would preclude projects or actions initiated by the Secretary of Energy under the provisions of this   from being transferrable to  .

1-111. Prior to issuing any loan guarantee under the provisions of this  , the Secretary of Energy shall obtain the concurrence of the Secretary of the   with respect to the timing, interest rate, and substantial terms and conditions of such loan guarantee. In establishing an interest rate, the current average yield on outstanding marketable obligations of   with comparable remaining periods of maturity shall be considered. To the extent practicable, the timing, interest rate, and substantial terms and conditions of such guarantees shall have the minimum possible impact on the capital markets of  , taking into account other Federal direct and indirect securities activities.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:01 p.m.,  ]
