Executive  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide for the coordination of Federal energy policies, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1-1. Establishment of the  .

1-101. There is established an  , hereinafter referred to as the  .

1-102. The   shall be composed of the following, and such other members as the President may, from time to time, designate.

(a) The Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman.

(b) The Secretary of  .

(c) The Secretary of the  .

(d) The Secretary of  .

(e) The Attorney General.

(f) The Secretary of the  .

(g) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(h) The Secretary of  .

(i) The Secretary of  .

(j) The Secretary of  , and  .

(k) The Secretary of  .

(1) The Secretary of  .

(m)  .

(n) The Director of  .

(o) The Chairman of  .

(p) The Chairman of  .

(q) The Administrator of  .

(r) The Director of  .

(s)  .

(t) The Director of  .

(u) The Assistant to the President for  .

(v) The Assistant to the President for   and Policy.

(w) The Chairman of  , who is invited to be a member.

1-2. Functions of the  .

1-201. The   shall ensure that there is communication and coordination among Executive agencies concerning energy policy and the management of energy resources.

1-202. The   shall, from time to time, develop and consider recommendations for improvements in the implementation of Federal energy policies or the management of energy resources that involve two or more Executive agencies.

1-203. The functions of the   shall neither substitute for nor replace   of the President clearance, review, and decision-making procedures. Those procedures shall also be used for submitting to the President any of the conclusions or recommendations developed through the  's energy coordinating functions.

1-204. The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

1-3.  .

1-301. During periods when the   is not meeting, the functions of the   are delegated to  . Meetings may be called by any regular member of the  .

1-302.   shall be composed of the following, and such others as may be appropriate due to the specific matters to be considered.

(a) The Chairman of the  , who shall be Chairman of  .

(b) The Director of  .

(c) The Chairman of  .

(d) The Assistant to the President for  .

(e) The Assistant to the President for   and Policy.

1-4. Revocation of a Prior Order.

Executive Order No.  , as amended, which provided for an  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2: 36 p.m.,  ]
