Executive Order  —Establishment of   on   of  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment

. There is established   on   of   (Commission).

 . 2

.

Membership

. (a) The   shall be composed of not more than 36 members appointed by the President.

(b) Members of the   shall be distinguished constitutional scholars, retired members of the Federal judiciary, or other individuals having experience with and knowledge of the Federal judiciary and   of   (Supreme Court).

(c) The President shall designate two members of the   to serve as  .

 . 3

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall produce a report for the President that includes the following:

(i) An account of the contemporary commentary and debate about the role and operation of   in our constitutional system and about the functioning of the constitutional process by which the President nominates and, by and with the advice and consent of the  , appoints Justices to  ;

(ii) The historical background of other periods in the  's history when   role and the nominations and advice-and-consent process were subject to critical assessment and prompted proposals for reform; and

(iii) An analysis of the principal arguments in the contemporary public debate for and against   reform, including an appraisal of the merits and legality of particular reform proposals.

(b) The   shall solicit public comment, including other expert views, to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of ideas.

(c) The   shall submit its report to the President within   of the date of the  's first public meeting.

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a)   within   of the President shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C.  ), and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide administrative services, including facilities, staff, equipment, and other support services as may be necessary to carry out the objectives of the  .

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  , but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). (c) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by  .

 . 5

.

Termination

. The   shall terminate   after it submits its report to the President.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
