Executive Order  — 
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. On  , following a decision by   to overrule

Roe

v.

Wade

, 410   ( ), I signed Executive Order   ( ). As that order recognized, eliminating the right recognized in Roe has had and will continue to have devastating implications for women's health and public health more broadly.

Following that order,   ( ) has taken critical steps to address those effects. These steps include clarifying the obligation of hospitals and providers under  ,   U.S.C.  , to provide to patients presenting at an emergency department with an emergency medical condition stabilizing care, including an abortion, if that care is necessary to stabilize their emergency medical condition, and issuing guidance to the  's retail pharmacies on their obligations under   civil rights laws—including section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 794, and section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act,   U.S.C.  —to ensure equal access to comprehensive reproductive and other healthcare services, including for women who are experiencing miscarriages.

However, the continued advancement of restrictive abortion laws in   across the country has created legal uncertainty and disparate access to reproductive healthcare services depending on where a person lives, putting patients, providers, and third parties at risk and fueling confusion for hospitals and healthcare providers, including pharmacies. There have been numerous reports of women denied health- and life-saving emergency care, as providers fearful of legal reprisal delay necessary treatment for patients until their conditions worsen to dangerous levels. There are also reports of women of reproductive age being denied prescription medication at pharmacies—including medication that is used to treat stomach ulcers, lupus, arthritis, and cancer—due to concerns that these medications, some of which can be used in medication abortions, could be used to terminate a pregnancy. Reportedly, a healthcare provider, citing a   law restricting abortion, even temporarily stopped providing emergency contraception.

As it remains the policy of my Administration to support women's access to reproductive healthcare services, including their ability to travel to seek abortion care in   where it is legal, I am directing my Administration to take further action to protect access to reproductive healthcare services and to address the crisis facing women's health and public health more broadly.

 . 2

.

Definition

. The term "reproductive healthcare services" means medical, surgical, counseling, or referral services relating to the human reproductive system, including services relating to pregnancy or the termination of a pregnancy.

 . 3

.

Advancing the Ability to  

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of   shall consider actions to advance access to reproductive healthcare services, including, to the extent permitted by Federal law, through   for patients traveling across   lines for medical care.

 . 4

.

Promoting Compliance with Non-Discrimination Law in Obtaining Medical Care

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, and to ensure that individuals are not denied necessary healthcare on the basis of any ground protected by Federal law, including current pregnancy, past pregnancy, potential or intended pregnancy, or other medical conditions, the Secretary of   shall consider all appropriate actions to advance the prompt understanding of and compliance with Federal non-discrimination laws by healthcare providers that receive Federal financial assistance. Such actions may include:

(a) providing technical assistance for healthcare providers that have questions concerning their obligations under   non-discrimination laws;

(b) convening healthcare providers to provide information on their obligations under   non-discrimination laws and the potential consequences of non-compliance; and

(c) issuing additional guidance, or taking other action as appropriate, in response to any complaints or other reports of non-compliance with Federal non-discrimination laws.

 . 5

.

Data Collection

. The Secretary of   shall evaluate the adequacy of research, data collection, and data analysis and interpretation efforts at  ,  , and other relevant   components in accurately measuring the effect of access to reproductive healthcare on maternal health outcomes and other health outcomes. Following that evaluation, the Secretary shall take appropriate actions to improve those efforts.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
