Executive Order 14130—2024 Amendments to  ,  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 801-946a), and in order to prescribe additions and amendments to  ,  , prescribed by Executive Order 12473 of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

. Part II, Part III, Part IV, and Part V of the Manual for Courts-Martial,  , are amended as described in the   attached to and made a part of this order.

 . 2

. With this order, I hereby prescribe regulations for the randomized selection of qualified personnel as members of a court-martial to the maximum extent practicable, pursuant to section 543 of the   National Defense Authorization Act for  , Public Law 117-263 (10 U.S.C. 825(e)(4)).

 . 3

. Except as provided in sections 4 and 5 of this order, these amendments shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the date of this order that was not punishable when committed or omitted.

(b) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these amendments had not been prescribed.

 . 4

. The amendments to   ( ) 908(c)(3),  ), and   1209(a)(1) shall take effect on  , subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that was not punishable when committed or omitted.

(b) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these amendments had not been prescribed.

 . 5

. The amendment to  ) shall take effect on  , subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that was not punishable when committed or omitted.

(b) Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if this amendment had not been prescribed.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

Related PDFs

Download PDF Document with Annex

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in  on  .
