Executive Order  — 
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.  ), as authorized under Title V of Public Law 100-685, advises and assists the President regarding national space policy and strategy. This order sets forth the  's membership, duties, and responsibilities.

 . 2

.

Membership of  

. The   shall be composed of:

(a) the Vice President, who shall be Chair of the  ;

(b) the Secretary of  ;

(c) the Secretary of  ;

(d) the Secretary of the  ;

(e) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(f) the Secretary of  ;

(g) the Secretary of  ;

(h) the Secretary of  ;

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(j) the Secretary of  ;

(k) the Secretary of  ;

(l) the Director of  ;

(m) the Director of  ;

(n) the Director of  ;

(o) the Assistant to the President for  ;

(p) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(q) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(r) the Assistant to the President and  ;

(s) the Chairman of  ;

(t) the Administrator of  ; and

(u) the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) and other senior officials within   of the President, as determined by the  .

 . 3

.

Functions and Operations of the  

. (a) The   shall advise and assist the President on space policy and strategy. In particular, it shall:

(i) review, develop, and provide recommendations to the President on space policy and strategy;

(ii) coordinate implementation of space policy and strategy;

(iii) synchronize the  's civil, commercial, and national security space activities in furtherance of the objectives of the President's national space policy and strategy;

(iv) facilitate resolution of differences among agencies on space-related policy and strategy matters;

(v) enable interagency cooperation, coordination, and information exchange on space activities; and

(vi) perform such other duties as the President may, from time to time, prescribe.

(b) The operation of the   shall not interfere with the existing lines of authority in or responsibilities of any agency.

(c) The   shall have a staff, headed by a civilian Executive Secretary appointed by the President.

(d) The   shall meet at least annually.

(e) The   shall consider and provide recommendations to the President on any space-related issue as determined by the  .

 . 4

.

Responsibilities of the Chair

. (a) The   shall serve as the President's principal advisor on national space policy and strategy.

(b) The   shall establish procedures and set the agenda for   sessions to address Presidential priorities.

(c) The   may recommend to the President candidates for the position of Executive Secretary.

(d) The   may invite the heads of other agencies, other senior officials in   of the President, and other Federal employees to participate in   meetings.

(e) The   or, upon the  's direction, the Executive Secretary, may develop budget recommendations for submission to the Director of   that reflect the President's space policy and strategy, as well as provide advice concerning budget submissions by agencies related to the President's space policies and strategies.

 . 5

.

National Space Policy Planning Process

. (a) The   shall establish a process for developing and coordinating the implementation of national space policy and strategy.

(b) The head of each agency that conducts space-related activities shall, to the extent permitted by law, conform such activities to the President's national space policy and strategy.

(c) On space matters relating primarily to national security, the   shall coordinate with   ( ) to develop space policy and strategy consistent with   priorities and practices.

 . 6

.

 

. (a) The   shall convene a  ) pursuant to section 121 of Public Law 101-611, composed of   representatives of industries and other persons involved in aeronautical and space activities.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work for the  . Members of the  , while engaged in the work of the  , may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

(c) The   shall report directly to the   and shall provide advice or work product solely to the  .

(d) The   shall provide advice and recommendations to the   on matters related to space policy and strategy, including Government policies, laws, regulations, treaties, international instruments, programs, and practices across the civil, commercial, and national security space sectors.

 . 7

.

Administrative Provisions

. (a) To aid in the performance of the functions of  (i)   in   of the President shall provide administrative support to the  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations; and

(ii) legal advice to the   with respect to its work and functions shall be provided exclusively by   to the President and the Counsel to the Vice President.

(b) To the extent practicable and permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C.  ), and within existing appropriations, agencies serving on the  , components of   of the President, and interagency councils and committees that affect space policy or strategy shall make resources, including personnel, office support, and printing, available to the   as reasonably requested by the   or, upon the  's direction, the Executive Secretary.

(c) Agencies shall cooperate with the   through the  , or upon the  's request, the Executive Secretary, and provide such information and advice to the   as it may reasonably request, to the extent permitted by law, including information regarding agencies' current and planned space activities.

(d) This order supersedes Executive Order   (Reviving  ), and Executive Order   of   (Amending Executive Order 13803 - Reviving  ), and those orders are revoked. To the extent this order is inconsistent with any provision of any previous Executive Order or Presidential Memorandum, this order shall control.

(e) If any provision of this order or the application of such provision is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and other dissimilar applications of such provision shall not be affected.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
