Executive Order  —Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To   for the Impact of Climate Change on  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including  , 8 U.S.C.  

et seq

., I hereby order as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. The long tradition of   as a leader in refugee resettlement provides a beacon of hope for persecuted people around the world, promotes stability in regions experiencing conflict, and facilitates international collaboration to address the global refugee crisis. Through   (USRAP),  , cooperating with private partners and   citizens in communities across the country, demonstrates the generosity and core values of our  , while benefitting from the many contributions that refugees make to our country. Accordingly, it shall be the policy of my Administration that:

(a) USRAP and other humanitarian programs shall be administered in a manner that furthers our values as a   and is consistent with our domestic law, international obligations, and the humanitarian purposes expressed by the   in enacting the Refugee Act of  , Public Law 96-212.

(b) USRAP should be rebuilt and expanded, commensurate with global need and the purposes described above.

(c) Delays in administering USRAP and other humanitarian programs are counter to our national interests, can raise grave humanitarian concerns, and should be minimized.

(d) Security vetting for USRAP applicants and applicants for other humanitarian programs should be improved to be more efficient, meaningful, and fair, and should be complemented by sound methods of fraud detection to ensure program integrity and protect national security.

(e) Although access to   humanitarian programs is generally discretionary, the individuals applying for immigration benefits under these programs must be treated with dignity and respect, without improper discrimination on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or other grounds, and should be afforded procedural safeguards.

(f)   humanitarian programs should be administered in a manner that ensures transparency and accountability and reflects the principle that reunifying families is in the national interest.

(g) My Administration shall seek opportunities to enhance access to the refugee program for people who are more vulnerable to persecution, including women, children, and other individuals who are at risk of persecution related to their gender, gender expression, or sexual orientation.

(h) Executive departments and agencies (agencies) should explore the use of all available authorities for humanitarian protection to assist individuals for whom USRAP is unavailable.

(i) To meet the challenges of restoring and expanding  ,   must innovate, including by effectively employing technology and capitalizing on community and private sponsorship of refugees, while continuing to partner with resettlement agencies for reception and placement. (j) The Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) programs for   and   allies provide humanitarian protection to nationals of   and   experiencing an ongoing, serious threat because they provided faithful and valuable service to  , including its troops serving in those countries.   should ensure that these important programs are administered without undue delay.

 . 2

.

Revocation, Rescission, and Reporting

. (a) Executive Order   of   (Resuming  ), and Executive Order   of   (  in Refugee Resettlement), are revoked.

(b)     (Implementing Immediate Heightened Screening and Vetting of Applications for   and Other Immigration Benefits, Ensuring Enforcement of All Laws for Entry Into  , and Increasing Transparency Among Departments and Agencies of   and for the   People), is revoked.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall provide a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), describing all agency actions, including memoranda or guidance documents, that were taken or issued in reliance on or in furtherance of the directives revoked by subsections (a) and (b) of this section. This report shall include recommendations regarding whether each action should be maintained, reversed, or modified, consistent with applicable law and as appropriate for the fair, efficient, and secure administration of the relevant humanitarian program or otherwise in the national interest.

 . 3

.

Special Immigrant Visas for   and   Allies

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall complete a review of the   and   SIV programs and submit a report to the President with recommendations to address any concerns identified. The report shall include:

(i) an assessment of agency compliance with existing law governing the   programs, including program eligibility requirements and procedures for administrative review;

(ii) an assessment of whether there are undue delays in meeting statutory benchmarks for timely adjudication of applications, including due to insufficient staffing levels;

(iii) a plan to provide training, guidance, and oversight with respect to   processing of SIV applications;

(iv) a plan to track the progress of the Senior Coordinators as provided under section 1245 of   in Iraq Act of 2007 ( ), subtitle C of title   of Public Law 110-181, and section 602(b)(2)(D)(ii)(II) of   of   ( ), title VI of division F of Public Law 111-8, as amended; and

(v) an assessment of whether adequate guidelines exist for reconsidering or reopening applications in appropriate circumstances and consistent with applicable law.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall also direct a review of the procedures for Chief of Mission approval of applications with the aim of, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i) ensuring existing procedures and guidance are sufficient to permit prospective applicants a fair opportunity to apply and demonstrate eligibility; (ii) issuing guidance that would address situations where an applicant's employer is unable or unwilling to provide verification of the applicant's "faithful and valuable service," and provide for alternative forms of verification;

(iii) revising requirements to facilitate the ability of applicants to demonstrate the existence of a qualifying contract with   and require that the supervisor verifying the applicant's "faithful and valuable service" be a   citizen or national;

(iv) ensuring that applicants are not prejudiced by delays in verifying their employment; and

(v) implementing anti-fraud measures to ensure program integrity.

(c) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit to the President the results of the review described in subsection (b) of this section.

(d) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall conduct a review and submit a report to the President identifying whether additional populations not currently provided for under section 1059 of   for  , Public Law 109-163, section 1244 of the  , or section 602 of the   are at risk as a result of their faithful and valuable service to  . The review should also evaluate whether it would be appropriate to seek legislation that would create a SIV program for individuals, regardless of nationality, who faithfully assisted   in conflict areas for   or made exceptional contributions in a shorter period and have experienced or are experiencing an ongoing serious threat as a result of their service.

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall ensure that appropriate policies and procedures related to the   programs are publicly available on their respective agency's websites, and that any revisions to such policies and procedures in the future are made publicly available on those websites within   of issuance.

 . 4

.

Steps to Improve the Efficacy, Integrity, Security, and Transparency of USRAP

. (a) Consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order and to facilitate this order's effective and expeditious implementation:

(i) The APNSA shall designate a   Senior Director to be responsible for coordinating the agencies and vetting partners involved in  .

(ii) The Secretary of   shall designate a senior-level employee to have primary responsibility for overseeing refugee application processing, consistent with applicable law.

(iii) The Secretary of   shall designate a senior-level employee to have primary responsibility for coordinating the review and any revision of policies and procedures regarding the vetting and adjudication of USRAP refugee applicants, including follow-to-join refugee applicants and post-decisional processing, consistent with applicable law.

(iv) The Director of   shall assign a team of technology, process, and data experts from   to assist agencies in streamlining application processing, improving the automation and effectiveness of security vetting and fraud detection, and strengthening data-driven decision-making.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall provide the President a report on the fraud detection measures in place for  . The report shall also include a plan to enhance fraud detection within components at both agencies and recommendations for the development of new anti-fraud programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(c) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall promptly consider taking all appropriate actions, consistent with applicable law, to expand refugee vetting and adjudication capacity, including by:

(i) developing more efficient processes to capture and share refugee applicant biometric data; and

(ii) permitting the use of video and audio teleconferencing to conduct refugee interviews and establishing the necessary infrastructure to do so.

(d) To increase refugee adjudication capacity,   shall, consistent with applicable law, support the use of all hiring authorities, including expanded use of direct hiring authority, for positions associated with the adjudication of refugee applications.

(e) Within   of the date of this order, the heads of all agencies involved in the Security Advisory Opinion process and other inter-agency vetting processes for refugee applicants, including follow-to-join refugee applicants, shall submit data to   on the number of staff performing refugee security vetting, the thresholds for checks, and the rates at which checks have returned an objection. Such data shall be disaggregated by age range, gender, and nationality of the refugee applicant.   shall meet to consider if and how agency processes and staffing levels should change to improve security reviews and make refugee arrivals more efficient, and shall share any conclusions and recommendations with the heads of relevant agencies, including the Director of  , in order to inform potential resourcing strategies where necessary.

(f) Within   of this order, agencies responsible for the Security Advisory Opinion process shall meet to consider proposals from member agencies to adjust the list of countries and other criteria that require a Security Advisory Opinion for a refugee case.

(g) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall consider whether to promulgate regulations and any other policies, including internal oversight mechanisms, to ensure the quality, integrity, efficiency, and fairness of the adjudication process for USRAP applicants, while also taking due account of the challenges facing refugee applicants. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , should consider adopting regulations or policies, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, that:

(i) develop mechanisms to synthesize reliable, detailed, and current country conditions that may be relied upon, where appropriate, to make specific factual and legal determinations necessary for the adjudication of refugee applications from individuals or from individuals within a designated group of applicants;

(ii) ensure that refugee applicants have timely access to their own application records;

(iii) permit refugee applicants to have a representative at their interview at no cost to  ; and

(iv) ensure, when refugee applications are denied for non-security or non-fraud-based reasons, an applicant is given a short explanation describing the basis for the denial, so that the applicant has a meaningful opportunity to present additional evidence and to request a review of the decision.

(h) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall provide the President, through the APNSA, a report describing any action taken pursuant to subsection (g) of this section within   of the date such action is taken.

(i) The Secretary of   shall ensure that adjudicators are trained in the standards governing refugee claims of women, children, and other individuals who are more vulnerable to persecution due to their age, gender, gender expression, or sexual orientation.

(j) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall consider taking actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to recognize as "spouses" for purposes of derivative status through   individuals who are in committed life partnerships but who are unable to marry or to register their marriage due to restrictions in the law or practices of their country of origin, including for individuals in same-sex, interfaith, or camp-based marriages. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall provide the President a report, through the APNSA, describing any action taken pursuant to this subsection within   of the date such action is taken.

(k) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, deliver a plan to the President, through the APNSA, to enhance the capacity of USRAP to welcome refugees by expanding the use of community sponsorship and co-sponsorship models by refugee resettlement agencies, and by entering into new public-private partnerships.

(l) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall consider ways to expand mechanisms under which non-governmental organizations with direct access to and knowledge of refugees abroad in camps or other settings could identify and directly refer to USRAP particularly vulnerable individuals who have a strong possibility of qualifying for admission to   as refugees.

(m) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate steps, taking into account necessary safeguards for program integrity, to ensure that the current policies and procedures related to USRAP are publicly available on their respective websites, and that any new or revised policies and procedures are made publicly available on their websites within   of their adoption.

(n) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall develop options for improving USRAP applicants' ability to access relevant material from their case files on an expedited basis to inform timely appeals from adverse decisions.

 . 5

.

Improving Performance

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of  , shall develop and ensure adherence to a plan that addresses USRAP processing backlogs. In developing this plan, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Director of  , and in collaboration with   and  , shall conduct a review of refugee security vetting processes and develop recommendations to increase their efficiency, fairness, and effectiveness, consistent with the humanitarian goals of   and the national security and foreign policy interests of  .

(b) The plan and review described in subsection (a) of this section shall also:

(i) examine whether existing vetting processes, including the Security Advisory Opinion process, can be improved to increase efficiency and provide more effective security reviews; and

(ii) seek to bring national average processing times within the period described in 8 U.S.C. 1571(b).

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , shall submit to the President the plan described in subsection (a) of this section, including the Secretary's recommendations for process improvements.

 . 6

.

Climate Change and  

. Within   of the date of this order, the APNSA, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Administrator of  , and the Director of  , shall prepare and submit to the President a report on climate change and its impact on migration, including forced migration, internal displacement, and planned relocation. This report shall include, at a minimum, discussion of the international security implications of climate-related migration; options for protection and resettlement of individuals displaced directly or indirectly from climate change; mechanisms for identifying such individuals, including through referrals; proposals for how these findings should affect use of   foreign assistance to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change; and opportunities to work collaboratively with other countries, international organizations and bodies, non-governmental organizations, and localities to respond to migration resulting directly or indirectly from climate change. The APNSA shall work with appropriate agencies to ensure that the report, or a summary thereof, is made publicly available.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
