Executive Order  —  for the Benefit of the People of Afghanistan
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the widespread humanitarian crisis in  —including the urgent needs of the people of   for food security, livelihoods support, water, sanitation, health, hygiene, shelter and settlement assistance, and COVID-19-related assistance, among other basic human needs—and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of  . I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. In addition, I find that the preservation of certain property of   ( ) held in   by   financial institutions is of the utmost importance to addressing this national emergency and the welfare of the people of  . I also understand that various parties, including representatives of victims of terrorism, have asserted legal claims against certain property of   or indicated in public court filings an intent to make such claims. This property is blocked under this order.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1

. (a) All property and interests in property of   that are held, as of the date of this order, in   by any   financial institution, including   of  , are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in, except as set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.

(b)   financial institutions shall promptly transfer the blocked property described in subsection (a) of this section into a consolidated account held at   of  .

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. This order and actions taken pursuant to this order shall apply notwithstanding any previously issued Executive Order to the extent such order blocks, regulates, or otherwise affects the property and interests in property identified in section 1(a) of this order. This order and actions taken pursuant to this order shall supersede any previously issued Executive Order to the extent such order blocks, regulates, or otherwise affects the property and interests in property identified in section 1(a) of this order.

 . 3

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "Da Afghanistan Bank" or " " means  ;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; and

(c) the term "person" means an individual or entity.

 . 5

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds and other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of the blocking of property and interests in property set forth in section 1(a) of this order.

 . 6

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Attorney General, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All executive departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 7.

Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 9

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
