Executive Order  —  Make a Comeback
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Well-designed programs that support local and Tribal leaders in left-behind communities can lead to stronger economic outcomes, strengthen regional assets, and reduce regional inequality. It is the policy of my Administration to take a whole-of-government approach to defining, coordinating, and increasing the accessibility of existing and future programs that help left-behind communities.

 . 2

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "covered communities" means:

(i) municipalities or other local areas within an economically distressed region;

(ii) communities in Community Disaster Resiliency Zones;

(iii) regions served by any of the following Federal programs:  ,   and  ,  ,  , or  ; or

(iv) rural communities identified by the Secretary of  .

(b) "Economically distressed region" means a region described by section 301 of   of   (42 U.S.C.  ), section 29(j) of the   of   (15 U.S.C. 3722b(j)(1)), or 49 U.S.C. 6702(a)(1), or that meets the definition of "persistent poverty county" in section 736 of Division A of Public Law 117-328.

(c) "Implementing agencies" means  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(d) "Place-based economic development" means policies and programs administered by   that target defined regions, including   lands, and use a coordinated approach that represents the interests of community members and community-based organizations in covered communities to:

(i) improve physical infrastructure;

(ii) support workforce development to fill locally and regionally demanded well-paying jobs;

(iii) connect regions to new economic opportunities;

(iv) increase the capacity of unions, labor organizations, community organizations, and the general public to negotiate legally binding agreements with investors, project developers, and companies to deliver locally defined benefits to local communities;

(v) increase research and development capacity to accelerate local and regional innovation; or

(vi) strengthen rural,   and community systems.

 . 3

.

Strengthening Federal Collaboration on Economic Development

. (a) The Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary for   and in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, shall, where appropriate and consistent with applicable law, coordinate Federal investments with implementing agencies and develop and implement policy recommendations, including on meaningful community engagement, related to place-based economic development focused on covered communities.

(b) Within   of this order, consistent with applicable law, including section 103 of   of   (42 U.S.C.  ), the Secretary of  , through the Assistant Secretary for Economic Development, shall work with implementing agencies to:

(i) improve the quality, frequency, and accessibility of engagement with  ,  , territorial, local, and non-profit organizations in covered communities;

(ii) support localized, community economic development that helps generate private investments that benefit left-behind communities, such as workforce training, resilient physical infrastructure, affordable energy, civic infrastructure, affordable housing, childcare, and transportation;

(iii) develop an interagency technical assistance network in local geographies to enable interested communities and organizations to access information and resources from across   through a single point of entry; and

(v) identify geographies served by overlapping Federal place-based economic development programs to facilitate coordination of funding opportunities and post-award implementation, consistent with applicable law.

(c) Implementing agencies shall, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, include in forthcoming funding opportunities requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives that provide a preference for applications from entities in and serving covered communities.

 . 4

.

Supporting Award Access in Economically Distressed Regions

. (a) Implementing agencies shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, assist potential grant applicants, including in economically distressed regions, in understanding and applying for Federal grants. Implementing agencies' activities may include:

(i) conducting proactive engagement with communities and organizations to promote opportunities for Federal assistance;

(ii) providing guidance and technical assistance to applicants; and

(iii) identifying resources across the agencies' technical assistance programs and offices for support.

(b) Within   of this order, implementing agencies shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, consider signing a memorandum of agreement to exchange information, tools, and leading practices to ensure applicants to under-resourced programs are made aware of, and may be considered for, similar programs at other agencies.

 . 5

.

Promoting Disaster Resilience and  

. In coordination with the Secretary of  , implementing agencies that have field offices in economically distressed regions or   that have received a major disaster declaration within   shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(a) seek input from local organizations on needs for and barriers to long-term economic resilience;

(b) identify funding opportunities to address long-term economic development and infrastructure needs; and

(c) provide targeted support for navigating the application process for funding opportunities.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
