Executive Order  —Ensuring the Future Is Made in All of America by All of America's Workers
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration that   should, consistent with applicable law, use terms and conditions of Federal financial assistance awards and Federal procurements to maximize the use of goods, products, and materials produced in, and services offered in,  .   should, whenever possible, procure goods, products, materials, and services from sources that will help   businesses compete in strategic industries and help  's workers thrive. Additionally, to promote an accountable and transparent procurement policy, each agency should vest waiver issuance authority in senior agency leadership, where appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 2

.

Definitions.

(a) "Agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in  ) of title  , United States Code.

(b) "Made in America Laws" means all statutes, regulations, rules, and   relating to Federal financial assistance awards or Federal procurement, including those that refer to "Buy America" or " ," that require, or provide a preference for, the purchase or acquisition of goods, products, or materials produced in  , including iron, steel, and manufactured goods offered in  . Made in   Laws include laws requiring domestic preference for maritime transport, including the Merchant Marine Act of   (Public Law 66-261), also known as the Jones Act.

(c) "Waiver" means an exception from or waiver of Made in America Laws, or the procedures and conditions used by an agency in granting an exception from or waiver of Made in America Laws.

 . 3

.

Review of Agency Action Inconsistent with Administration Policy

. (a) The head of each agency shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act, consider suspending, revising, or rescinding those agency actions that are inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

(b) The head of each agency shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act, consider proposing any additional agency actions necessary to enforce the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 4

.

Updating and Centralizing the Made in America Waiver Process

. (a) The Director of   (OMB) shall establish within OMB the Made in America Office. The Made in   Office shall be headed by a Director of the Made in America Office (Made in   Director), who shall be appointed by the Director of OMB.

(b) Before an agency grants a waiver, and unless the   Director provides otherwise, the agency (granting agency) shall provide the Made in   Director with a description of its proposed waiver and a detailed justification for the use of goods, products, or materials that have not been mined, produced, or manufactured in  . (i) Within   of the date of the appointment of the Made in   Director, and as appropriate thereafter, the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, shall:

(1) publish a list of the information that granting agencies shall include when submitting such descriptions of proposed waivers and justifications to the Made in   Director; and

(2) publish a deadline, not to exceed  , by which the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, either will notify the head of the agency that the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, has waived each review described in subsection (c) of this section or will notify the head of the agency in writing of the result of the review.

(ii) To the extent permitted by law and consistent with national security and executive branch confidentiality interests, descriptions of proposed waivers and justifications submitted to the Made in   Director by granting agencies shall be made publicly available on the website established pursuant to section 6 of this order.

(c) The Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, shall review each proposed waiver submitted pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, except where such review has been waived as described in subsection (b)(i)(2) of this section.

(i) If the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, determines that issuing the proposed waiver would be consistent with applicable law and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, shall notify the granting agency of that determination in writing.

(ii) If the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, determines that issuing the proposed waiver would not be consistent with applicable law or the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, shall notify the granting agency of the determination and shall return the proposed waiver to the head of the agency for further consideration, providing the granting agency with a written explanation for the determination.

(1) If the head of the agency disagrees with some or all of the bases for the determination and return, the head of the agency shall so inform the Made in   Director in writing.

(2) To the extent permitted by law, disagreements or conflicts between the Made in   Director and the head of any agency shall be resolved in accordance with procedures that parallel those set forth in section 7 of Executive Order   ( ), with respect to the Director of   within OMB.

(d) When a granting agency is obligated by law to act more quickly than the review procedures established in this section allow, the head of the agency shall notify the Made in   Director as soon as possible and, to the extent practicable, comply with the requirements set forth in this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed as displacing agencies' authorities or responsibilities under law.

 . 5

.

Accounting for Sources of Cost Advantage

. To the extent permitted by law, before granting a waiver in the public interest, the relevant granting agency shall assess whether a significant portion of the cost advantage of a foreign-sourced product is the result of the use of dumped steel, iron, or manufactured goods or the use of injuriously subsidized steel, iron, or manufactured goods. The granting agency may consult with   in making this assessment if the granting agency deems such consultation to be helpful. The granting agency shall integrate any findings from the assessment into its waiver determination as appropriate.

 . 6

.

Promoting Transparency in  .

(a)   shall develop a public website that shall include information on all proposed waivers and whether those waivers have been granted. The website shall be designed to enable manufacturers and other interested parties to easily identify proposed waivers and whether those waivers have been granted. The website shall also provide publicly available contact information for each granting agency.

(b) The Director of OMB, through the Made in   Director, shall promptly report to   all proposed waivers, along with the associated descriptions and justifications discussed in section 4(b) of this order, and whether those waivers have been granted. Not   after receiving this information,   shall, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with national security and executive branch confidentiality interests, make this information available to the public by posting it on the website established under this section.

 . 7

.

 .

To the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, agencies shall partner with  ), discussed in   (title V of Public Law 114-329), to conduct supplier scouting in order to identify   companies, including small- and medium-sized companies, that are able to produce goods, products, and materials in   that meet Federal procurement needs.

 . 8

.

Promoting Enforcement of the Buy American Act of  .

(a) Within   of the date of this order,   ( ) shall consider proposing for notice and public comment amendments to the applicable provisions in   (FAR), title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, consistent with applicable law, that would:

(i) replace the "component test" in Part 25 of the FAR that is used to identify domestic end products and domestic construction materials with a test under which domestic content is measured by the value that is added to the product through U.S.-based production or   job-supporting economic activity;

(ii) increase the numerical threshold for domestic content requirements for end products and construction materials; and

(iii) increase the price preferences for domestic end products and domestic construction materials.

(b) The FAR Council shall consider and evaluate public comments on any regulations proposed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and shall promptly issue a final rule, if appropriate and consistent with applicable law and the national security interests of  .

 . 9

.

Updates to the List of Nonavailable Articles.

Before the FAR Council proposes any amendment to the FAR to update the list of domestically nonavailable articles at section 25.104(a) of the FAR, the Director of OMB, through  ), shall review the amendment in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Made in   Director, paying particular attention to economic analyses of relevant markets and available market research, to determine whether there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the article, material, or supply is not mined, produced, or manufactured in   in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities and of a satisfactory quality. The Director of OMB, through  , shall make these findings available to   for consideration.

 . 10

.

Report on Information Technology That Is a Commercial Item.

The FAR Council shall promptly review existing constraints on the extension of the requirements in Made in   Laws to information technology that is a commercial item and shall develop recommendations for lifting these constraints to further promote the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

 . 11

.

Report on Use of Made in America Laws.

Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall submit to the Made in   Director a report on:

(a) the agency's implementation of, and compliance with, Made in America Laws;

(b) the agency's ongoing use of any longstanding or nationwide waivers of any Made in America Laws, with a written description of the consistency of such waivers with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order; and

(c) recommendations for how to further effectuate the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 12

.

 .

Bi-annually following the initial submission described in section 11 of this order, the head of each agency shall submit to the Made in   Director a report on:

(a) the agency's ongoing implementation of, and compliance with, Made in America Laws;

(b) the agency's analysis of goods, products, materials, and services not subject to Made in America Laws or where requirements of the Made in America Laws have been waived;

(c) the agency's analysis of spending as a result of waivers issued pursuant to the Trade Agreements Act of  , as amended, 19 U.S.C.  , separated by country of origin; and

(d) recommendations for how to further effectuate the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 13

.

Ensuring Implementation of Administration Policy on  .

Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit to the Made in   Director recommendations for ensuring that products offered to the general public on Federal property are procured in accordance with the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

 . 14

.

Revocation of Certain Presidential and Regulatory Actions.

(a) Executive Order   of   (  and  ), section 5 of Executive Order 13858 of   (Strengthening  ), and Executive Order   (Encouraging Buy American Policies for  ), are hereby revoked.

(b) Executive Order   of   (Prescribing Uniform Procedures for Certain Determinations Under  ), and Executive Order   (Maximizing Use of  -Made Goods, Products, and Materials), are superseded to the extent that they are inconsistent with this order.

 . 15

.

Severability.

If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 16

.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
