Executive  — 
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Ensuring the health and safety of workers is a national priority and a moral imperative.   workers and other essential workers, many of whom are people of color and immigrants, have put their lives on the line during the coronavirus disease   (COVID-19) pandemic. It is the policy of my Administration to protect the health and safety of workers from  .

  must take swift action to reduce the risk that workers may contract   in the workplace. That will require issuing science-based guidance to help keep workers safe from   exposure, including with respect to mask-wearing; partnering with   and local governments to better protect public employees; enforcing worker health and safety requirements; and pushing for additional resources to help employers protect employees.

 . 2

.

  from  

. The Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , in furtherance of the policy described in section 1 of this order and consistent with applicable law, shall:

(a) issue, within   of the date of this order and in conjunction or consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies), revised guidance to employers on workplace safety during the   pandemic;

(b) consider whether any emergency temporary standards on  , including with respect to masks in the workplace, are necessary, and if such standards are determined to be necessary, issue them by  ;

(c) review the enforcement efforts of   (OSHA) related to   and identify any short-, medium-, and long-term changes that could be made to better protect workers and ensure equity in enforcement;

(d) launch a national program to focus OSHA enforcement efforts related to   on violations that put the largest number of workers at serious risk or are contrary to anti-retaliation principles; and

(e) coordinate with   and   and all regional OSHA offices to conduct, consistent with applicable law, a multilingual outreach campaign to inform workers and their representatives of their rights under applicable law. This campaign shall include engagement with labor unions, community organizations, and industries, and place a special emphasis on communities hit hardest by the pandemic.

 . 3

.

Protecting Other Categories of Workers from  . (a) The Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of   and consistent with applicable law, shall:

(i) coordinate with   that have occupational safety and health plans approved under section 18 of   (Act) (29 U.S.C. 667) to seek to ensure that workers covered by such plans are adequately protected from  , consistent with any revised guidance or emergency temporary standards issued by OSHA; and

(ii) in   that do not have such plans, consult with   and local government entities with responsibility for public employee safety and health and with public employee unions to bolster protection from   for public sector workers.

(b) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies, shall, consistent with applicable law, explore mechanisms to protect workers not protected under the Act so that they remain healthy and safe on the job during the   pandemic.

(c) The Secretary of  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , shall consider whether any emergency temporary standards on   applicable to coal and metal or non-metal mines are necessary, and if such standards are determined to be necessary and consistent with applicable law, issue them as soon as practicable.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
