Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1

.

Order of Succession

. (a) Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) during any period in which both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary:

(i) Under Secretary of  ;

(ii) Under Secretary of  , and  ;

(iii) Under Secretary of  ;

(iv) Under Secretary of    , and  ;

(v) Under Secretary of  ;

(vi) Under Secretary of  ;

(vii) Under Secretary of  ;

(viii) Under Secretary of  ;

(ix) General Counsel of  ;

(x) Assistant Secretary of  );

(xi) Chief Financial Officer,  ;

(xii) Assistant Secretary of  );

(xiii) Assistant Secretary of  );

(xiv) Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary;

(xv)   Executive Directors of   for    ,  , and  , in order of seniority fixed by length of unbroken service as   Executive Director of that  ;

(xvi) Director,  ; and

(xvii) Chief,  .

(b) If any two or more individuals designated in subsection (a)(xv) of this section were sworn in to, or commenced service in, their respective offices on  , precedence shall be determined by the alphabetical order of the   in which the individual serves.

 . 2

.

Exceptions

. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)(i)-(xvii) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)(i)-(xvii) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 . 3

.

Revocation

. Executive Order 13612 of   (Providing an Order of Succession Within  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
