Executive Order 14103—2023 Amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial,  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 801-946a), and in order to prescribe additions and amendments to  ,  , prescribed by Executive Order 12473 of  , as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

. Part II, Part III, Part IV, and Part V of the Manual for Courts-Martial,  , are amended as described in Annex 1, which is attached to and made a part of this order. The amendments in   1 shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the date of this order that was not punishable when committed or omitted.

(b) Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the   1 amendments had not been prescribed.

 . 2

. Part I, Part II, Part III, Part IV, Part V, and   12A of the Manual for Courts-Martial,  , are amended as described in Annex 2, which is attached to and made a part of this order. The amendments in   2 shall apply in accordance with the effective date established by section 539C of   for   (NDAA FY 2022), Public Law 117-81, subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in   2 shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date established by section 539C of the NDAA FY 2022.

(b) Nothing in   2 shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date established by section 539C of the NDAA FY 2022, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the   2 amendments had not been prescribed.

 . 3

.  ,    , and     are added to  ,  , and Part II of the Manual is amended as described in Annex 3, which is attached to and made a part of this order. The additions and amendments in   3 shall take effect on  , and shall apply in accordance with section 539E(f) of the NDAA FY 2022 (10 U.S.C. 853 note), subject to the following:

(a) Nothing in   3 shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date established by section 539E(f) of the NDAA FY 2022.

(b) Nothing in   3 shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date established by section 539E(f) of the NDAA FY 2022, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the   3 amendments had not been prescribed.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annexes were published in  on  .
