Executive Order  —Promoting Access to Voting
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The right to vote is the foundation of   democracy. Free and fair elections that reflect the will of the   people must be protected and defended. But many  , especially people of color, confront significant obstacles to exercising that fundamental right. These obstacles include difficulties with voter registration, lack of election information, and barriers to access at polling places. For generations, Black voters and other voters of color have faced discriminatory policies and other obstacles that disproportionally affect their communities. These voters remain more likely to face long lines at the polls and are disproportionately burdened by voter identification laws and limited opportunities to vote by mail. Limited access to language assistance remains a barrier for many voters. People with disabilities continue to face barriers to voting and are denied legally required accommodations in exercising their fundamental rights and the ability to vote privately and independently. Members of our military serving overseas, as well as other   citizens living abroad, also face challenges to exercising their fundamental right to vote.

The Constitution and laws of   prohibit racial discrimination and protect the right to vote. The Voting Rights Act of   and other Federal statutes implement those protections and assign   a key role in remedying disenfranchisement and unequal access to the polls. In passing   of  , the   found that it is the duty of  , and local governments to promote the exercise of the fundamental right to vote. Executive departments and agencies (agencies) should partner with  , local,  , and territorial election officials to protect and promote the exercise of the right to vote, eliminate discrimination and other barriers to voting, and expand access to voter registration and accurate election information. It is our duty to ensure that registering to vote and the act of voting be made simple and easy for all those eligible to do so.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to promote and defend the right to vote for all   who are legally entitled to participate in elections. It is the responsibility of   to expand access to, and education about, voter registration and election information, and to combat misinformation, in order to enable all eligible   to participate in our democracy.

 . 3

.

Expanding Access to Voter Registration and Election Information

. Agencies shall consider ways to expand citizens' opportunities to register to vote and to obtain information about, and participate in, the electoral process.

(a) The head of each agency shall evaluate ways in which the agency can, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, promote voter registration and voter participation. This effort shall include consideration of:

(i) ways to provide relevant information in the course of activities or services that directly engage with the public—including through agency materials, websites, online forms, social media platforms, and other points of public access—about how to register to vote, how to request a vote-by-mail ballot, and how to cast a ballot in upcoming elections; (ii) ways to facilitate seamless transition from agencies' websites directly to   online voter registration systems or appropriate Federal websites, such as  ;

(iii) ways to provide access to voter registration services and vote-by-mail ballot applications in the course of activities or services that directly engage with the public, including:

(A) distributing voter registration and vote-by-mail ballot application forms, and providing access to applicable   online systems for individuals who can take advantage of those systems;

(B) assisting applicants in completing voter registration and vote-by-mail ballot application forms in a manner consistent with all relevant State laws; and

(C) soliciting and facilitating approved, nonpartisan third-party organizations and   officials to provide voter registration services on agency premises;

(iv) ways to promote and expand access to multilingual voter registration and election information, and to promote equal participation in the electoral process for all eligible citizens of all backgrounds; and

(v) whether, consistent with applicable law, any identity documents issued by the agency to members of the public can be issued in a form that satisfies   voter identification laws.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall submit to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy a strategic plan outlining the ways identified under this review that the agency can promote voter registration and voter participation.

(c) The Administrator of  , shall, consistent with applicable law, coordinate efforts across agencies to improve or modernize Federal websites and digital services that provide election and voting information to the   people, including ensuring that Federal websites are accessible to individuals with disabilities and people with limited English proficiency. As appropriate,   may support agencies in implementing the strategic plans directed in subsection (b) of this section.

 . 4

.

Acceptance of Designation Under  

. (a) This order shall supersede section 3 of Executive Order   of   (Implementation of the National Voter Registration Act of  ).

(b) Each agency, if requested by a   to be designated as a voter registration agency pursuant to section 7(a)(3)(B)(ii) of  , shall, to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with applicable law, agree to such designation. If an agency declines to consent to such designation, the head of the agency shall submit to the President a written explanation for the decision.

(c) The head of each agency shall evaluate where and how the agency provides services that directly engage with the public and, to the greatest extent practicable, formally notify the   in which the agency provides such services that it would agree to designation as a voter registration agency pursuant to section 7(a)(3)(B)(ii) of  .

 . 5

.

Modernizing Vote.gov

.   ( ) shall take steps to modernize and improve the user experience of  . In determining how to do so,   shall coordinate with   and other agencies as appropriate, and seek the input of affected stakeholders, including election administrators, civil rights and disability rights advocates,  , and nonprofit groups that study best practices for using technology to promote civic engagement.

(a)  's efforts to modernize and improve   shall include:

(i) ensuring that   complies, at minimum, with sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of  ;

(ii) ensuring that   is translated into languages spoken by any of the language groups covered under section 203 of the Voting Rights Act anywhere in  ; and

(iii) implementing relevant provisions of   Integrated Digital Experience Act (Public Law 115-336).

(b) Within   of the date of this order,   shall submit to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy a strategic plan outlining the steps to modernize and improve the user experience of  .

 . 6

.

Increasing Opportunities for Employees to Vote

. It is a priority of my Administration to ensure that  , as the  's largest employer, serves as a model employer by encouraging and facilitating Federal employees' civic participation. Accordingly, the Director of   shall take the following actions within   of the date of this order:

(a) coordinate with the heads of executive agencies, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, to provide recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, on strategies to expand   policy of granting employees time off to vote in  ,  , local,  , and territorial elections. Such recommendations should include efforts to ensure Federal employees have opportunities to participate in early voting.

(b) Coordinate with the heads of executive agencies, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, to provide recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, on strategies to better support Federal employees who wish to volunteer to serve as non-partisan poll workers or non-partisan observers, particularly during early or extended voting periods.

 . 7

.

Ensuring Equal Access for Voters with Disabilities

. Within   of the date of this order,   (NIST) within   shall evaluate the steps needed to ensure that the online   is accessible to people with disabilities. During that period,  , in consultation with  ,  , and other agencies, as appropriate, shall also analyze barriers to private and independent voting for people with disabilities, including access to voter registration, voting technology, voting by mail, polling locations, and poll worker training. By     period, NIST shall publish recommendations regarding both   and the other barriers it has identified.

 . 8

.

Ensuring Access to Voting for Active Duty Military and Overseas Citizens

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall establish procedures, consistent with applicable law, to affirmatively offer, on an   basis, each member of   duty the opportunity to register to vote in   elections, update voter registration information, or request an absentee ballot.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall evaluate the feasibility of implementing an online system to facilitate the services described in subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The Secretary of  , in coordination with  ,  , and  , shall take all practical steps to establish procedures to enable a comprehensive end-to-end ballot tracking system for all absentee ballots cast by military and other eligible overseas voters under the   and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act,   U.S.C.  

et seq

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy with a strategic plan for establishing the aforementioned tracking system.

(d) The head of each agency with overseas employees shall designate an employee to be responsible for coordinating with  , including to promote voter registration and voting services available to the agency's overseas employees. The Director of   may issue guidance to assist agencies in making such designations.

 . 9

.

Ensuring Access to Voter Registration for Eligible Individuals in Federal Custody

. (a) The Attorney General shall establish procedures, consistent with applicable law, to provide educational materials related to voter registration and voting and, to the extent practicable, to facilitate voter registration, for all eligible individuals in the custody of  . Such educational materials shall be incorporated into the reentry planning procedures required under section 4042(a)(7) of title 18, United States Code. The educational materials should also notify individuals leaving Federal custody of the restrictions, if any, on their ability to vote under the laws of the   where the individual resides and, if any such restrictions exist, the point at which the individual's rights will be restored under applicable   law.

(b) The Attorney General shall establish procedures, consistent with applicable law, to ensure   includes language in intergovernmental agreements and jail contracts to require the jails to provide educational materials related to voter registration and voting, and to facilitate voting by mail, to the extent practicable and appropriate.

(c) The Attorney General shall establish procedures, consistent with applicable law, for coordinating with   to provide educational materials related to voter registration and voting to all eligible individuals under the supervision of  , and to facilitate voter registration and voting by such individuals.

(d) The Attorney General shall take appropriate steps, consistent with applicable law, to support formerly incarcerated individuals in obtaining a means of identification that satisfies   voter identification laws, including as required by 18 U.S.C. 4042(a)(6)(B).

 . 10

.

Establishing a   Voting Rights Steering Group

. (a) There is hereby established   on Native American Voting Rights (Steering Group) coordinated by  .

(b)   shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and shall include the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   or their designees. The   may invite the participation of the heads or senior representatives of other agencies, as the   determines to be helpful to complete the work of  . The   shall consult with agencies not represented on   to facilitate the sharing of information and best practices, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(c) The   shall engage in meaningful and robust consultation with   and   leaders to inform   regarding concerns and potential areas of focus for the report described in subsection (d) of this section, and to assist   in developing that report.

(d) The   shall study best practices for protecting voting rights of   and shall produce a report within   of this order outlining recommendations for providing such protection, consistent with applicable law, including recommendations for:

(i) increasing voter outreach, education, registration, and turnout in   communities; increasing voting access for   communities (including increasing accessibility for voters with disabilities); and mitigating internet accessibility issues that may hinder voter registration and ballot access in   communities;

(ii) increasing language access and assistance for   voters, including evaluating existing best practices;

(iii) mitigating barriers to voting for   by analyzing and providing guidance on how to facilitate the use of Tribal government identification cards as valid voter identification in  , local,  , and territorial elections;

(iv) facilitating collaboration among local election officials,   communities, and   election offices; and

(v) addressing other areas identified during the consultation process.

(e)   shall provide administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law.

 . 11

.

Definition

. Except as otherwise defined in section 6 of this order, "agency" means any authority of   that is an "agency" under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

 . 12

. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
