Executive Order  —Enhancing  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 104(a) of   Law 115-368) (NQI Act), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to ensure continued   leadership in quantum information science and its technology applications, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

.   information science (QIS) can enable transformative advances in knowledge and technology for industry, academia, and government. Accordingly,   (NQI), which aims to ensure the continued leadership of   in QIS and its technology applications, is a substantial and sustained national priority.  , established pursuant to section 101 of the NQI Act, encompasses contributions from across  , as exemplified by the QIS research, development, demonstration, and training activities pursued by executive departments and agencies (agencies) with membership on either   ( ) Subcommittee on  SCQIS) or   (ESIX).

 . 2

.

Establishment

. (a) To ensure that   and the   are informed by evidence, data, and perspectives from a diverse group of experts and stakeholders,  ) is hereby established. Consistent with the NQI Act, the   shall advise the President, the SCQIS, and the ESIX on  .

(b) The   shall consist of the Director of   (Director) or the Director's designee and not more than 26 members, appointed by the President, who are   citizens representative of industry, universities, and Federal laboratories, and who are qualified to provide advice and information on QIS and technology research, development, demonstrations, standards, education, technology transfer, commercial application, or national security and economic concerns.

(c) The   shall have two  . The Director or the Director's designee shall serve as one   of the Committee. The President shall designate another   from among the appointed members to serve as   with the Director.

 . 3

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall advise the President and the SCQIS and the ESIX (Subcommittees) and make recommendations for the President to consider when reviewing and revising  . The   shall also carry out all responsibilities set forth in section 104 of the NQI Act.

(b) The   shall meet at least twice a year and shall:

(i) respond to requests from the President or   the Committee for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice relating to QIS and its technology applications;

(ii) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of stakeholders on QIS, including the research community, the private sector, academia, national laboratories, agencies,   and local governments, foundations, and nonprofit organizations;

(iii) review the national strategy for QIS; and

(iv) respond to requests from the  .

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a) The heads of agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with information concerning QIS and its technology applications when requested by  .

(b)   the   may establish standing subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to assist and provide information to the  .

(c) The Director may request that members of the  , standing subcommittees, or ad hoc groups who do not hold a current clearance for access to classified information receive appropriate clearances and access determinations pursuant to Executive Order   ( ), as amended, or any successor order.

(d)   shall provide technical and administrative support to the  , pursuant to section 102(b) of the NQI Act.

(e) Committee members shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  , but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

 . 5

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   of August 30, 2019 (Establishing  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (FACA), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under the  , except for those in section 6 of the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
