Executive Order  — ,  , and Opportunity for    ,  , and  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

.  ,  , and Pacific Islander (AA and  ) individuals and communities are irrefutable sources of our  's strength. These communities have molded the   experience, and the achievements of AA and   communities make   stronger and more vibrant. The richness of  's multicultural democracy is strengthened by the diversity of AA and   communities and the many cultures and languages of AA and   individuals in  .

   ,  , and Pacific Islander communities together constitute the fastest growing ethnic group in   and make rich contributions to our society, our economy, and our culture. Yet for far too long, systemic barriers to equity, justice, and opportunity put the   dream out of reach of many AA and   communities. Many AA and   individuals face persistent disparities in socioeconomic, health, and educational outcomes. Linguistic isolation and lack of access to language-assistance services continue to lock many AA and   individuals out of opportunity. Too often Federal data collection practices fail to measure, reflect, and disaggregate the diversity of AA and   experiences. These practices contribute to often painful and enduring stereotypes about     as a "model minority" and obscure disparities within AA and   communities.

Our Nation has also seen again that   bias, xenophobia, racism, and nativism have deep roots in our Nation. Tragic acts of   violence have increased during the   pandemic, casting a shadow of fear and grief over many AA and   communities, in particular   communities. Long before this pandemic, AA and   communities in  —including   and   communities—have faced persistent xenophobia, religious discrimination, racism, and violence.   must provide the moral leadership, policies, and programs to address and end   violence and discrimination, and advance inclusion and belonging for all AA and   communities.

At the same time, many AA and   communities, and in particular   and Pacific Islander communities, have also been disproportionately burdened by the   public health crisis. Evidence suggests that   and   are three times more likely to contract   compared to white people and nearly twice as likely to die from the disease. On top of these health inequities, many AA and   families and small businesses have faced devastating economic losses during this crisis, which must be addressed.

As I directed in Executive Order   ( ), the entire   must advance equity and racial justice for underserved communities, which include AA and   communities. As I established in   of   (Condemning and Combating Racism,  , and   and   in  ), it is the policy of my Administration to address and confront racism, xenophobia, and intolerance. The purpose of this order is to build on those policies by establishing the President's   on    ,  , and   and   Initiative on    ,  , and  . Both will work to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities in  .

 . 2

.

President's   on    ,  , and  

. (a) There is established in   the President's   on    ,  , and  ).

(b) The   shall be led by two  , one of whom shall be the Secretary of  , the other of whom shall be the head of an executive department or agency (agency) designated by the President. The   shall provide advice to the President, in close coordination with the Deputy Assistant to the President and    ,  , and   Senior  , on:

(i) the development, monitoring, and coordination of executive branch efforts to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities in  , including efforts to close gaps in health, socioeconomic, employment, and educational outcomes;

(ii) policies to address and end   bias, xenophobia, racism, and nativism, and opportunities for the executive branch to advance inclusion, belonging, and public awareness of the diversity and accomplishments of AA and   people, cultures, and histories;

(iii) policies, programs, and initiatives to prevent, report, respond to, and track   hate crimes and hate incidents;

(iv) ways in which   can build on the capacity and contributions of AA and   communities through equitable   funding, grantmaking, and employment opportunities;

(v) policies and practices to improve research and equitable data disaggregation regarding AA and   communities;

(vi) policies and practices to improve language access services to ensure AA and   communities can access   programs and services; and

(vii) strategies to increase public- and private-sector collaboration, and community involvement in improving the safety and socioeconomic, health, educational, occupational, and environmental well being of AA and   communities.

(c) The   shall consist of 25 members appointed by the President. The   shall include members who:

(i) have a history of advancing equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities;

(ii) represent diverse sectors, including education, commerce, business, health, human services, housing, the environment, the arts, agriculture, labor and employment, transportation, justice,  , economic and community development, immigration, law, and national security;

(iii) are from organizations or associations representing one or more of the diverse AA and   communities;

(iv) have personal or professional experience addressing intersectional barriers faced by AA and   communities, such as discrimination or lack of access to opportunity based on country of origin, immigration status, disability, age, or sex, including based on sexual orientation and gender identity; or

(v) have such other experience as the President deems appropriate.

(d) The Secretary of   shall designate an Executive Director of the   (Executive Director). The Executive Director shall report to the Secretary of  , in coordination with the other   of the   and the Deputy Assistant to the President and    ,  , and   Senior  .

(i)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and may, as necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from one or more agencies in support of the  .

(ii) The heads of other agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out its functions. Each agency shall bear its own expenses of assisting the  .

(iii) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(e) The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless sooner renewed by the President.

 . 3

.

White House Initiative on    ,  , and  

. (a) There is established   Initiative on    ,  , and   (Initiative), a   interagency working group. The Initiative shall be led by two  , one of whom shall be the Secretary of  , the other of whom shall be the head of an agency designated by the President. The Executive Director of the   established in section 2(d) of this order shall also serve as the Executive Director of the  , reporting to the Secretary of  , in coordination with the other   of the   and the Deputy Assistant to the President and    ,  , and   Senior  .

(b) The Initiative shall advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities by coordinating   interagency policymaking and program development efforts to eliminate barriers to equity, justice, and opportunity faced by AA and   communities, including by advancing policies, programs, and initiatives. In developing and implementing such policies, programs, and initiatives,   of the   and the Executive Director shall coordinate closely with the Deputy Assistant to the President and    ,  , and   Senior  . To support implementation of a whole-of-government approach to equity and racial justice, as established in Executive Order  , the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the Director of   shall coordinate closely with   of the   and the Executive Director to ensure that the needs and voices of AA and   communities are considered in the efforts of my Administration to advance equity and civil rights.

In particular, the   shall advance efforts to:

(i) identify and eliminate any existing institutional policies or barriers within Federal programs and services that may disadvantage or burden AA and   communities;

(ii) improve safety, access to justice, and violence prevention for AA and   communities, including by preventing, reporting, addressing, and better tracking acts of hate and bias (such as acts of hate and bias at the intersection of gender-based violence);

(iii) promote inclusion and belonging for AA and   communities, including by expanding public education and knowledge of AA and   people and their diverse cultures, languages, and histories;

(iv) expand the collection and use of disaggregated data at the Federal, State and local level on AA and   communities, and facilitate improved research on policy and program outcomes for AA and   communities, in coordination with   on   established by Executive Order  ;

(v) end language access and other barriers faced by AA and   communities in accessing government benefits and services;

(vi) improve health outcomes, eliminate health disparities, and expand access to quality, affordable, and culturally competent medical and mental healthcare services for AA and   individuals and communities;

(vii) end disparities in educational outcomes for AA and   youth and students of all ages, and address barriers to learning, including bullying, harassment, and other forms of discrimination at school;

(viii) address the concentration of poverty facing many AA and   communities, including by identifying and addressing disparities in access to safe, affordable housing and homeownership;

(ix) expand economic opportunity for AA and   families, including by advancing opportunities for AA and   entrepreneurs and small businesses, supporting access to jobs and workforce training for AA and   communities, promoting AA and   participation and success in the private sector, ensuring workplaces are free from race and national origin harassment and other forms of employment discrimination, and ensuring AA and   communities can access consumer and finance protections;

(x) increase opportunities for civic engagement, such as electoral participation, within AA and   communities;

(xi) improve the equitable allocation of Federal resources, including through   funds, contracts, grants, and awards, to AA and   communities and   and NHPI-serving organizations;

(xii) support AA and   communities in responding to and recovering from national or regional crises and public health emergencies, including the   pandemic and related economic crisis;

(xiii) secure climate and environmental justice for   and   communities who are particularly impacted by the climate crisis and are overburdened by environmental degradation; and

( ) identify ways to foster the recruitment, career and leadership development, retention, advancement, and participation of AA and   public servants at all levels of the Federal workforce.

(c) In addition to  , the   shall consist of senior officials from the following agencies and offices, designated by the heads thereof:

(i)   President;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ;

(xxiv)  ;

(xxv)  ;

(xxvi)  ;

( )  ;

(xxviii)  ;

(xxix)  ;

(xxx)  ;

(xxxi)  ;

(xxxii)    ;

(xxxiii)  ;

( )  ; and

( ) other agencies and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, members of the  , or their designees, shall devote the time, skill, and resources necessary and adequate to carry out the functions of the  . Each agency and office shall bear its own expenses for participating in the  .

(d)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and may, as necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from one or more agencies in support of the  .

(e) Each agency in the   shall prepare a plan (agency plan) outlining measurable actions the agency is considering or will take to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities, including plans to implement the policy goals outlined in subsection (b) of this section. Agencies shall report their plans to   of the   and the Executive Director on a frequency established by the Executive Director. In developing such plans, officials participating in the   shall seek opportunities to engage with employee affinity groups or Federal networks representing AA and   public servants.

(i) Each such agency shall assess and report to   of the   and the Executive Director on its progress in implementing its respective agency plan on a regular basis as established by   of the   and the Executive Director.

(ii) On an   basis,   of the Initiative shall develop and submit to the President a report outlining a Government-wide interagency plan to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and   communities, and progress made in implementing the policy goals outlined in subsection (b) of this section.

(f) The Initiative shall coordinate with and support the existing regional network of   officials who facilitate improved communication, engagement, and coordination between   and AA and   communities throughout   (Regional Network). Agencies identified as participants in the   shall seek opportunities, consistent with applicable law and available resources, to provide support and resources to   through each agency's respective regional offices. The Executive Director shall coordinate the efforts of  , and may establish regular reporting and information-sharing activities between   and the  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order   (Increasing Participation of     and   in  ); Executive Order   of   (Increasing Economic Opportunity and Business Participation of     and  ); Executive Order   of   (Increasing Participation of     and   in  ); and Executive Order   of   (Economic Empowerment of     and  ).

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) For purposes of this order, references to executive departments and agencies shall not include the agencies described in  ) of title  , United States Code. Independent regulatory agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.

(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
