Executive Order  —Interagency  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to enhance the quality and effectiveness of security in and protection of buildings and facilities in   occupied by Federal employees or   contractor workers for nonmilitary activities, and to provide an ongoing entity to address continuing Government-wide security for Federal facilities, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Establishment

. There is hereby established  ). The   shall consist of:

(a) the Secretary of   (Secretary);

(b) representatives from the following executive departments and agencies (agencies), designated by the heads of such agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ;

(xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ; and

(xviii)  ;

(c) the following officials or their designees:

(i) the Director of  ;

(ii) the Director of  ;

(iii) the Director of  ;

(iv) the Director of  ; and

(v) the Director of  ; and

(d) such other   officials as the President may from time to time designate.

 . 2

.

Chair

. The   shall be chaired by the Secretary or the designee of the Secretary.

 . 3

.

Working Groups

. The   is authorized to establish interagency working groups to perform such tasks as may be directed by the  .

 . 4

.

Consultation

. The   may consult with officials in other   entities, including   and  , to perform its responsibilities under this order, and, at the discretion of the  , officials from other   entities may participate in the interagency working groups.

 . 5

.

Duties and Responsibilities

. The   shall:

(a) establish policies and standards for security in and protection of Federal facilities;

(b) evaluate existing security standards for Federal facilities and develop a strategy to monitor the implementation of such standards to ensure compliance by agencies;

(c) take such actions as may be necessary to enhance the quality and effectiveness of security in and protection of Federal facilities, including:

(i) encouraging agencies with security responsibilities to share security-related intelligence in a timely and cooperative manner;

(ii) assessing technology and information systems as means of providing cost-effective improvements to security in Federal facilities;

(iii) developing long-term construction standards for those locations with threat levels or missions that require blast-resistant structures or other specialized security requirements;

(iv) evaluating standards for the location of, and special security related to, child care centers in Federal facilities;

(v) assisting the Secretary in developing and maintaining a centralized security database of all Federal facilities; and

(vi) providing best practices for securing a mobile Federal workforce; and

(d)   after the date of this order and biennially thereafter, prepare and provide to the Director of   and the Assistant to the President for   a summary report describing the results of compliance under subsection 6(c) of this order.

 . 6

.

Agency Support and Cooperation

. (a) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall provide the   such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under this order.

(b) Each agency shall cooperate and comply with the requirements of this order and the policies and standards of the   issued pursuant to this order, except in situations in which the Director of  , or other   official within   designated by the Director of  , determines that compliance would jeopardize intelligence sources and methods. To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, agencies shall provide such cooperation and compliance as may be necessary to enable the   to perform its duties and responsibilities under this order.

(i) Each agency shall designate a senior official who shall be responsible for agency implementation of, and compliance with, this order.

(ii) The senior official shall ensure that the official's agency supports  , as applicable, in the performance of the official's duties.

(c) The Secretary shall monitor agency compliance with the policies and standards of the  . Monitoring compliance shall consist, at a minimum, of the following:

(i) maintaining compliance benchmarks to measure compliance progress;

(ii) requiring periodic compliance reporting by all relevant agencies; and

(iii) conducting risk-based compliance verification.

(d) In situations in which a   facility is occupied by multiple agencies for both military and nonmilitary activities, and each such occupancy is substantial, those occupants shall coordinate on the security of the facility.

 . 7

.

Administrative Provision

. This order supersedes Executive Order   ( ), which is hereby revoked. To the extent that this order is inconsistent with any provision of any previous Executive Order or Presidential Memorandum, this order shall control. All policies and standards implemented by   that was established pursuant to Executive Order   shall remain in effect until rescinded or replaced by the   established pursuant to this order.

 . 8

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) "Agency" means an executive agency, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.

(b) "Federal facility" means a federally owned or leased building, structure, or the land it resides on, in whole or in part, that is regularly occupied by Federal employees or   contractor workers for nonmilitary activities. The term "Federal facility" also means any building or structure acquired by a contractor through ownership or leasehold interest, in whole or in part, solely for the purpose of executing a nonmilitary Federal mission or function under the direction of an agency. The term "Federal facility" does not include public domain land, including improvements thereon; withdrawn lands; or buildings or facilities outside of  .

(c) "Federal employee" means an employee, as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, of an agency.

(d) "Federal contractor worker" means any individual who performs work for or on behalf of any agency under a contract, subcontract, or contract-like instrument and who, in order to perform the work specified under the contract, subcontract, or contract-like instrument, requires access to space, information, information technology systems, staff, or other assets of   in buildings and facilities of  . Such contracts include the following:

(i) personal service contracts;

(ii) contracts between any non-Federal entity and any agency; and

(iii) subcontracts between any non-Federal entity and another non-Federal entity to perform work related to the primary contract with an agency.

(e) " " means a committee that is established in accordance with an   standard, and that is responsible for addressing facility-specific security issues and approving the implementation of security measures and practices in multi-tenant facilities.

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
