Executive Order 14052—Implementation of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to effectively implement the historic infrastructure investments in   (the Act), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

 

.   is a once-in-a-generation investment in our  's infrastructure and competitiveness. It will help rebuild  's roads, bridges, and rails; expand access to clean drinking water; work to ensure access to high-speed Internet throughout the  ; tackle the climate crisis; advance environmental justice; and invest in communities that have too often been left behind. It will accomplish all of this while driving the creation of good-paying union jobs and growing the economy sustainably and equitably for   to come.

Critical to achieving these goals will be the effective implementation of the Act by my Administration, as well as by  , local,  , and territorial governments.

 . 2

.

Implementation Priorities

. In implementing the Act, all agencies (as described in section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in  ) of title  ), shall, as appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, prioritize:

(a) investing public dollars efficiently, working to avoid waste, and focusing on measurable outcomes for the   people;

(b) increasing the competitiveness of   economy, including through implementing the Act's Made-in-  requirements and bolstering   manufacturing and supply chains;

(c) improving job opportunities for millions of   by focusing on high labor standards for these jobs, including prevailing wages and the free and fair chance to join a union;

(d) investing public dollars equitably, including through  , which is a Government-wide effort toward a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits from   investments in climate and clean energy flow to disadvantaged communities;

(e) building infrastructure that is resilient and that helps combat the crisis of climate change; and

(f) effectively coordinating with  , local,  , and territorial governments in implementing these critical investments.

 . 3

.

Infrastructure Implementation Task Force

. (a) There is established within   of the President the Infrastructure Implementation Task Force (Task Force). The function of   is to coordinate effective implementation of   and other related significant infrastructure programs within the executive branch.

(b) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of   shall serve as   of  .

(c) There is established within   of the President the position of  , who shall serve as   of  .

(d) In addition to  , the Task Force shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of the  ;

(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Secretary of  ;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Administrator of  ;

(viii) the Director of  ;

(ix) the Director of  ;

(x) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(xi) the Assistant to the President and  ; and

(xii) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices as   may from time to time invite to participate.

(e)   may coordinate subgroups consisting of Task Force members or their designees, as appropriate.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
