Executive Order  —Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Situation in  
 
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 212(f) of   1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  

, President of  , find that the situation that gave rise to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order   of   (Blocking Property of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in  ), with respect to the situation in  , including the killing of and violence against civilians, unrest, incitement of imminent violence, and significant political repression, which threatened the peace, security, and stability of  , has been significantly altered by events of  , including the transfer of power following elections in  , significantly decreased violence, and President  's pursuit of reforms across multiple sectors. Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and revoke that order, and further order:

Section 1

. In light of the revocation of  , the suspension of entry as immigrants and nonimmigrants of individuals meeting the criteria set forth in section 1(a) of that order will no longer be in effect as of the date of this order and such individuals will no longer be treated as persons covered by Presidential Proclamation 8693 of   (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to   and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).

 . 2

. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order   shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the date of this order.

 . 3

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
