Executive Order  —  Costs for  
 ,  
 , Jr.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Policy

. Too many   face challenges paying for prescription drugs. On average,   pay two to three times as much as people in other countries for prescription drugs, and one in four   who take prescription drugs struggle to afford their medications. Nearly 3 in 10   adults who take prescription drugs say that they have skipped doses, cut pills in half, or not filled prescriptions due to cost.

On  , I signed Executive Order   (Promoting Competition in  ), which directed various actions in pursuit of my  's policy to improve competition, increase wages, and reduce prices for prescription drugs, among other goods and services. In response to Executive Order  ,   ( ) submitted a report to   calling for bold legislative and administrative actions to lower drug prices.

On  , I signed Public Law 117-169, commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act of   (IRA), which will lower the cost of prescription drugs and save millions of Americans hundreds or thousands of dollars per year. The   will protect   beneficiaries from catastrophic drug costs by phasing in a cap for out-of-pocket costs at the pharmacy and establishing a $35   cap per prescription for insulin covered by a   prescription drug plan and insulin delivered through traditional pumps. Starting  ,   beneficiaries with prescription drug coverage will pay $0 out of pocket for recommended adult vaccines (including the shingles vaccine). The   will also require certain companies to pay   rebates if they increase the prices of drugs used by   beneficiaries faster than the rate of inflation. In addition, the Secretary of   (Secretary) will be able to negotiate prices for selected high-cost prescription drugs for   beneficiaries for the first time ever. Following the passage of the IRA,   has taken critical steps to swiftly implement these historic provisions in order to deliver results and lower health care costs for the   people.

As my Administration works to implement the IRA, it is critical that we take additional actions to complement the   and further drive down prescription drug costs. Within  ,   and   ("Innovation Center") tests health care payment and delivery models to improve health care quality and make the delivery of health care more efficient. In  ,   announced a new model to improve cancer care and lower health care costs for cancer patients, including prescription drug costs.   provides my Administration and the   people with a useful set of tools to help lower health care costs and improve quality of care, and its work can advance the continued policy of my Administration to lower the cost of prescription drugs.

 . 2

.

 

. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Secretary shall, consistent with the criteria set out in 42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)(2), consider whether to select for testing by   new health care payment and delivery models that would lower drug costs and promote access to innovative drug therapies for beneficiaries enrolled in the   and   programs, including models that may lead to lower cost-sharing for commonly used drugs and support value-based payment that promotes high-quality care. The Secretary shall, not   after the date of this order, submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy enumerating and describing any models that the Secretary has selected. The report shall also include the Secretary's plan and timeline to test any such models. Following the submission of the report, the Secretary shall take appropriate actions to test any health care payment and delivery models discussed in the report.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 ,  .

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
