By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604, as amended), I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders No.   of  , No.   of  , and No.   of September 14,  , and constituting portions of Part  —Registration of United States Citizens Outside of   and Classification of Such Registrants, of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1.   (4) of paragraph (b) of section 1655.6, Records to be  —Foreign (SSS Form 50) and  , is amended to read as follows:

"(4) Mail the completed   (SSS Form 2) to the registrant at his present mailing address as given on line 5 of the Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form 50) if such address is a military post office (  or  ), or   or  ; however, if such mailing address is outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or  , and a foreign mailing address is used, such form shall be mailed to the Director of Selective Service for transmittal to the registrant."

2. Paragraph (c) of section 1655.10,  , is amended to read as follows:

"(c) If the registrant is outside   and is in a country other than   or   and does not give a military post office (  or  ) as his address on line 5 of the Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form 50),   (SSS Form 100) shall be mailed by the local board to the Director of Selective Service for transmittal to the registrant, and, unless the local board grants an extension of time for its return, the registrant shall complete and return his   (SSS Form 100) through the Director of   within   after the date the local board transmitted it to him."

3. Paragraph (b) of section 1655.11,  , is amended to read as follows:

"(b) The Notice of Classification (SSS Form 110) shall be mailed to the registrant at his present mailing address as given on line 5 of the Registration Questionnaire—Foreign (SSS Form 50) if such address is a military post office (  or  ), or   or  ; however, if such mailing address is outside the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or  , and a foreign mailing address is used, such form shall be mailed to the Director of Selective Service for transmittal to the registrant."
