PART I. PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON YOUTH OPPORTUNITY

SECTION 101. Membership and chairmanship. (a) There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as  "). The   shall be composed of the Vice President, who shall serve as Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , and such other   officials as the President may designate. Each of the foregoing may appoint a delegate to represent him in   affairs.

(b) When matters which affect the interests of Federal agencies not represented on the   are to be considered by the   the Chairman shall invite the heads of such agencies to participate in the business of the  .

 . 102. Functions of the  . (a) The   shall be responsible for (1) assuring effective program planning for   and other youth programs of  , (2) strengthening the coordination of youth programs and activities of   departments and agencies, (3) evaluating the over-all effectiveness of Federal youth opportunity programs, (4) encouraging  , local, nonprofit and other private organizations to participate fully in efforts to enhance opportunities for youth, and (5) reporting progress to the President.

(b) The scope of subsection (a) of this section extends to, but is not limited to, (1) programs to maximize meaningful employment for youth in cooperation with employers and agencies of  , and local governments, and with emphasis on types of employment leading to the acquisition of skills which will increase the employability of participants as members of the labor force; (2) programs to strengthen the educational achievements of youth through such means as preparatory courses conducted through school systems which will encourage youth to continue or resume their education, remedial and tutorial programs conducted in the communities by schools and colleges, and the use of   and part-time employment as incentives; (3) programs to encourage and stimulate youth to become involved in improving their home neighborhoods; (4) programs designed to identify, diagnose, and treat the illnesses and handicapping conditions of youth who participate in   programs; (5) programs arranged through communities and private organizations to stimulate opportunities for youth to participate in cultural, recreational, and athletic activities or competitions; (6) programs utilizing the existing camping and recreational resources in  ,  , and local parks, forests, and recreation areas, with a view to securing the support and participation of public authorities and private organizations concerned with youth in developing constructive outdoor or work-related opportunities which will benefit disadvantaged urban and rural youth by utilizing such facilities during  ; and (7) programs designed to increase opportunities for children of urban slums to spend part of their summers in the wholesome environment of families in other areas through the hospitality of such families and with the support and cooperation of private, nonprofit organizations.

 . 103. Assistance and cooperation. (a) Upon request of the Chairman, each Federal agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and within available funds, furnish information, data, and reports needed by the   to accomplish the purposes of this order.

(b) All Federal officials, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities and programs, shall be mindful of the objectives of this order, and shall take into account any advice given by the   pursuant to this order, and shall take such measures, consistent with their authorities and available funds, as will assist in accomplishing the purposes of this order.

(c) The staff of the   shall include an Executive Director, who shall be appointed by the Chairman of the  , and such other employees as may be necessary, who shall be assigned by the various members of the  .

PART IL CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD ON YOUTH  

 . 201.  . (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The Board shall be composed of a Chairman and not more than fourteen other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President. The Chairman shall serve as such until his successor is appointed by the President. Appointments of the other members of the   shall be governed by the following: (1) The terms of those first appointed hereunder shall expire on  . (2) The immediate successors of the members so appointed shall be appointed, in as nearly equal numbers as may be, for terms of  ,  , and  . (3) Thereafter appointments shall be made for terms of  .

 . 202. Duties and responsibilities. (a) The Board shall advise both the President and the   on matters relating to (1) ways and means of enhancing the opportunities of disadvantaged youth to achieve preparation for adult responsibility, (2) the coordination of programs and activities of Federal agencies which pertain to the needs of youth, and (3) local,  , and private action to extend and improve youth opportunity.

(b) The   shall advise and assist the   in the evaluation of the progress made in carrying cut the functions of the   and recommend to the  , as necessary, action to accelerate progress.

PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 . 301. Financing. The   agencies headed by the officers composing the   shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the   or the   in accordance with the provisions of section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

 . 302. Expenses of Board members. Members of the   shall receive no compensation from   by reason of their service under this order but they may be allowed transportation expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence or reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses (5 U.S.C. 5703(c) (d)).
