Part   States Entity

Section 101.

Designation of Entity.

The Administrator of  ,  , and  ,  ,  , are hereby designated as an entity under Article XIV of the Treaty, to be known as   Entity for the Columbia River Treaty (hereinafter referred to as the Entity). The designated Administrator shall be the Chairman of the Entity.

 . 102.

Functions of the Entity.

The Entity shall have the functions set forth therefor in Article XIV, and in other provisions, of the  .

 . 103.

Departmental responsibilities.

This order shall not affect (1) the respective responsibilities of   and   for project operation and administration, (2) the respective responsibilities of the Secretary of the   and the Chief of Engineers for the supervision and direction of   and  , or (3) the responsibility of the Secretary of the   tor the supervision and direction of  .

Part II.  ,  

Section 201.

Appointment of members of  .

(a) The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of the   shall each appoint one person as a   member of   established by Article XV of the  .

(b) Each such person shall be selected from among appropriately qualified individuals, who at the time of appointment may be, but need not necessarily be, officers or employees of  , and shall serve as a member of the   during the pleasure of the appointing Secretary.

 . 202.

Alternate members.

In addition to the two members to be appointed under the provisions of Section 201 of this order, there shall be two alternate   members of  . The provisions of Section 201 of this order shall apply to the selection, appointment, and service of the alternate members.

 . 203.

United States Section.

The members and alternate members appointed under the foregoing provisions of this Part shall compose  ,  ,  , hereinafter referred to as  . The member appointed by the Secretary of the   under Section 201(a) of this order shall be the Chairman of  .

 . 204.

Assistance to  .

With the consent of the respective heads thereof, departments and agencies of   may, upon the request of   and to the extent not inconsistent with law, furnish assistance needed by the Section in connection with the performance of its functions.

Part III. General

Section 301.

Reservation.

There is hereby reserved the right to modify or terminate any or all of the provisons of this order.
