118 SRES 643 IS: Recognizing the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children and expressing support for the designation of April 2024 as the “Month of the Military Child”.
U.S. Senate
2024-04-16
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 643
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 16, 2024
Ms. Hirono
(for herself,
Mr. Blumenthal
,
Ms. Klobuchar
,
Mr. Hickenlooper
, and
Mr. Durbin
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children and expressing support for the designation of April 2024 as the
Month of the Military Child
.
Whereas brave men and women serve in the Armed Forces and protect the security and freedom of the United States;
Whereas over 1,300,000 active-duty members and nearly 1,000,000 ready-reserve members serve in the Armed Forces;
Whereas there are more than 1,540,000 military-connected children and youth who move, on average, 6 to 9 times during their educational career;
Whereas they encounter unique educational challenges when these children and youth move between public and Department of Defense Education Activity schools;
Whereas the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children was developed in 2007 by the Department of Defense and the Council of State Governments to ease the educational transitions of military-connected students attending public schools and Department of Defense schools worldwide;
Whereas the Compact helps military children and youth stay on grade level and facilitates on-time graduation;
Whereas, while it is not exhaustive in its coverage, the Compact addresses key issues encountered by military families: eligibility, enrollment, placement, and graduation;
Whereas the Compact uses a comprehensive approach to provide a consistent policy in every school district and member State;
Whereas the Compact Commission, which includes the 50 States and District of Columbia, works tirelessly to recognize that our military-connected children and youth serve too and to pay tribute to their commitment and service to the country; and
Whereas April is the Month of the Military Child, and a month-long salute will encourage our country to support military-connected children and youth: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate encourages—
(1)
citizens to
Purple Up!
and wear purple to express our appreciation and celebrate the unsung heroes of the Armed Forces; and
(2)
all citizens, communities, and business and government leaders across the United States to honor, support, and show appreciation for military-connected children and youth.
