118 SRES 596 ATS: Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 112th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a secure, inclusive space where they can explore their world, build meaningful relationships, and have access to experiences that prepare them for a life of leadership.
U.S. Senate
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 596
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 19, 2024
Ms. Duckworth
(for herself,
Mrs. Shaheen
,
Ms. Collins
,
Mr. King
,
Ms. Hassan
,
Ms. Cortez Masto
,
Mr. Hagerty
,
Mr. Coons
,
Mr. Barrasso
,
Mrs. Capito
, and
Ms. Ernst
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 112th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a secure, inclusive space where they can explore their world, build meaningful relationships, and have access to experiences that prepare them for a life of leadership.
Whereas March 12, 2024, marks the 112th anniversary of Girl Scouts of the United States of America (referred to in this preamble as
Girl Scouts
), the largest and most impactful leadership program for girls in the world;
Whereas the Girl Scout movement began on March 12, 1912, when Juliette “Daisy” Gordon Low, a native of Savannah, Georgia, organized a group of 18 girls and provided them with the opportunity to develop physically, intellectually, socially, and spiritually;
Whereas, for over a century, Girl Scouts has advanced its mission to “build girls of courage, confidence, and character, who make the world a better place”;
Whereas today more than 50,000,000 women—trailblazers, visionaries, and leaders—are Girl Scouts alumnae who have made the world a better place;
Whereas, since its beginnings, Girl Scouts has emphasized public service and civic engagement and has fostered a sense of community in girls;
Whereas girls say that Girl Scouts supports their mental health and is an accepting, secure space where they feel free to be themselves and where leaders and other girls are sources of support during difficult times;
Whereas Girl Scouts is a powerful force for social connection and creates a positive and uplifting national and global network among girls;
Whereas Girl Scouts plays an indispensable role in engaging girls in afterschool and out-of-school programming and experiences that expand their world and allow them to tap into their inner community builder, innovator, change maker, and leader;
Whereas, at a time when civics education is missing from many schools, Girl Scouts engages girls of all grade levels in civics programming that deepens their understanding of democracy and government, prepares them for a lifetime of civic engagement, and motivates them to take action on issues that are important to them;
Whereas Girl Scouts offers girls 21st century programming in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), the outdoors, entrepreneurship, and beyond, helping girls develop invaluable life skills;
Whereas, to earn the Gold Award, individual Girl Scouts take on projects that have a measurable and sustainable impact on a community by assessing a need, designing a solution, completing a project, and inspiring others to sustain it; and
Whereas, as a member organization of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, Girl Scouts is part of an international sisterhood of 10,000,000 girls and young women in 152 countries and is committed to offering girls more opportunities to engage with communities worldwide, make meaningful global connections, and explore global citizenship: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes Girl Scouts of the United States of America for 112 years of providing girls with a safe and inclusive space where they can hone their skills and develop leadership abilities;
(2)
congratulates all Girl Scouts who earned the Gold Award in 2023; and
(3)
encourages Girl Scouts of the United States of America to continue to champion the ambitions, nurture the creativity, and support the talents of future women leaders.
