118 SRES 918 IS: Designating December 2, 2024, as “World Nuclear Energy Day”.
U.S. Senate
2024-12-02
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 918
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 2, 2024
Mr. Warner
(for himself,
Mr. Risch
,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr. Braun
,
Mr. Coons
,
Mrs. Capito
,
Mr. Whitehouse
,
Mr. Tillis
,
Mr. Manchin
,
Mr. Marshall
,
Mr. Crapo
,
Mr. Booker
, and
Ms. Lummis
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Designating December 2, 2024, as
World Nuclear Energy Day
.
Whereas, on December 2, 1942, Enrico Fermi and his team achieved a historic milestone by demonstrating the first self-sustaining, controlled nuclear chain reaction in the world at Chicago Pile–1;
Whereas, on December 2, 1957, in the State of Pennsylvania, the Shippingport Atomic Power Station began operations as the first commercial nuclear power plant in the world, dedicated exclusively to peaceful applications;
Whereas nuclear energy produces—
(1)
nearly 20 percent of the electricity generated in the United States; and
(2)
nearly half of the carbon-free electricity generated in the United States;
Whereas the nuclear sector of the United States—
(1)
directly employs nearly 70,000 people in high-quality jobs that last for decades; and
(2)
is responsible for more than 250,000 secondary jobs;
Whereas for every 100 nuclear power plant jobs, another 66 jobs are created in local communities;
Whereas nuclear energy plays a key role in the national security of the United States, as the United States has the largest nuclear-powered Navy in the world, which is supported by—
(1)
the commercial nuclear energy industry in the United States; and
(2)
a shared nuclear supply chain;
Whereas advanced nuclear technologies are vital to powering space exploration;
Whereas nuclear energy promotes grid security and reliability by being 1 of the least expensive sources of baseload power generation worldwide;
Whereas nuclear power plants are largely resilient to adverse weather events, providing electricity 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year to distressed areas when other sources of electricity shut down;
Whereas nuclear energy contributes an estimated $60,000,000,000 per year to the gross domestic product of the United States;
Whereas a strong civilian nuclear sector is essential to United States leadership in global energy diplomacy, which allows the United States to influence and promote the peaceful use of nuclear technologies; and
Whereas the United States collaborates with other countries to develop new and innovative opportunities for nuclear technologies: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates December 2, 2024, as
World Nuclear Energy Day
;
(2)
celebrates the contributions of nuclear energy in advancing clean, reliable, and sustainable power generation worldwide;
(3)
honors the scientists, engineers, and innovators who have worked toward harnessing the potential of nuclear technology for the betterment of humanity;
(4)
commends the global community for its commitment to the safe and responsible utilization of nuclear energy; and
(5)
encourages continued cooperation domestically and abroad in research, development, and implementation of nuclear energy technologies.
