114 SRES 373 ATS: Designating the week of September 17 through September 23, 2023, as “Community School Coordinators Appreciation Week”.
U.S. Senate
2023-09-27
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 373
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 27 (legislative day, September 22), 2023
Mr. Brown
(for himself,
Mrs. Capito
,
Mr. Van Hollen
, and
Mr. Durbin
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Designating the week of September 17 through September 23, 2023, as
Community School Coordinators Appreciation Week
.
Whereas community schools marshal, align, and unite the assets, resources, and capacity of schools and communities for the success of students, families, and communities;
Whereas community schools are an effective and evidence-based strategy for school improvement included under section 4625 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7275
), as added by section 4601 of the Every Student Succeeds Act (
Public Law 114–95
; 129 Stat. 2029);
Whereas community schools that provide integrated student supports, well-designed and expanded learning opportunities, and active family and community engagement and that use collaborative leadership and practices have positive academic and non-academic outcomes, including—
(1)
improvements in—
(A)
student attendance;
(B)
behavior;
(C)
academic achievement;
(D)
mental and physical health;
(E)
high school graduation rates; and
(F)
school climate; and
(2)
reduced racial and economic achievement gaps;
Whereas community schools have the potential for helping people of the United States from underserved communities, as indicated in a 2021 report;
Whereas a 2019 report found that mental health care provided through community schools improved access to care, academic performance, and student conduct, including reducing the number of school suspensions and disciplinary referrals;
Whereas a 2020 study found that community schools in New York City had a positive impact on student attendance, on-time grade progression, and credit accumulation for high school students;
Whereas a 2016 report found early indicators that community schools in Baltimore led to improved family-school engagement;
Whereas community schools provide a strong social return on investment, with one study citing a social return of $3 to $15 for every dollar invested;
Whereas community school coordinators—
(1)
are essential to building successful community schools and creating, strengthening, and maintaining partnerships between community schools and their communities;
(2)
facilitate and provide leadership for the collaborative process and development of a system of supports and opportunities for children, families, and others within the community of a school that allow all students to learn and the community to thrive; and
(3)
deliver a strong monetary return on investment for community schools and their communities, with one study citing a return of $7.11 for every dollar invested in the salary of a community school coordinator; and
Whereas Community School Coordinators Appreciation Week, celebrated from September 17 through September 23, 2023, recognizes, raises awareness of, and celebrates the thousands of community school coordinators across the country and the critical role of community school coordinators in the success of students: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates the week of September 17 through September 23, 2023, as
Community School Coordinators Appreciation Week
;
(2)
thanks community school coordinators for the work they do to serve students, families, and communities; and
(3)
encourages students, parents, school administrators, and public officials to participate in events that celebrate Community School Coordinators Appreciation Week.
