118 SRES 713 IS: Designating May 2024 as “ALS Awareness Month”.
U.S. Senate
2024-05-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 713
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 23, 2024
Mr. Coons
(for himself,
Mr. Braun
,
Mr. Durbin
,
Ms. Klobuchar
,
Mr. Merkley
,
Mr. Whitehouse
,
Ms. Murkowski
, and
Mr. Cotton
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Designating May 2024 as
ALS Awareness Month
.
Whereas amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (referred to in this preamble as
ALS
) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord;
Whereas the life expectancy for an individual with ALS is between 2 and 5 years after the date on which the individual receives an ALS diagnosis;
Whereas ALS occurs throughout the world with no racial, ethnic, gender, or socioeconomic boundaries;
Whereas ALS may affect any individual in any location;
Whereas the cause of ALS is unknown in up to 90 percent of cases;
Whereas approximately 10 percent of ALS cases have a strong known genetic driver;
Whereas, on average, the period between the date on which an individual first experiences symptoms of ALS and the date on which the individual is diagnosed with ALS is more than 1 year;
Whereas the onset of ALS often involves muscle weakness or stiffness, and the progression of ALS results in the further weakening, wasting, and paralysis of—
(1)
the muscles of the limbs and trunk; and
(2)
the muscles that control vital functions, such as speech, swallowing, and breathing;
Whereas ALS can strike individuals of any age, but it predominantly strikes adults;
Whereas it is estimated that tens of thousands of individuals in the United States have ALS at any given time;
Whereas, based on studies of the population of the United States, more than 5,000 individuals in the United States are diagnosed with ALS each year, and approximately 15 individuals in the United States are diagnosed with ALS each day;
Whereas every 90 minutes someone dies from ALS in the United States;
Whereas the majority of individuals with ALS die of respiratory failure;
Whereas, in the United States, military veterans are more likely to be diagnosed with ALS than individuals with no history of military service;
Whereas, as of the date of introduction of this resolution, there is no cure for ALS;
Whereas the spouses, children, and family members of individuals living with ALS provide support to those individuals with love, day-to-day care, and more; and
Whereas an individual with ALS, and the caregivers of such individual, can be required to bear significant costs for medical care, equipment, and home care services for the individual as the disease progresses: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
designates May 2024 as
ALS Awareness Month
;
(2)
affirms the dedication of the Senate to—
(A)
ensuring individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (referred to in this resolution as
ALS
) have access to effective treatments as soon as possible;
(B)
identifying risk factors and causes of ALS to prevent new cases;
(C)
empowering individuals with ALS to engage with the world in the way they want;
(D)
acknowledging the physical, emotional, and financial burdens of living with ALS; and
(E)
ensuring all individuals with ALS and their caregivers receive high-quality services and supports that benefit them; and
(3)
commends the dedication of the family members, friends, organizations, volunteers, researchers, and caregivers across the United States who are working to improve the quality and length of life of ALS patients and develop treatments and cures that reach patients as soon as possible.
