118 SRES 650 IS: Recognizing the anniversary of the establishment of the United States Naval Construction Force, known as the “Seabees”, and the tremendous sacrifices and contributions by the Seabees who have fought and served on behalf of our country.
U.S. Senate
2024-04-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 650
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 18, 2024
Mr. Whitehouse
(for himself,
Mr. Wicker
,
Mr. Reed
, and
Mrs. Hyde-Smith
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the anniversary of the establishment of the United States Naval Construction Force, known as the
Seabees
, and the tremendous sacrifices and contributions by the Seabees who have fought and served on behalf of our country.
Whereas, on January 5, 1942, the first United States Naval Construction units were authorized by the Department of the Navy;
Whereas, on March 5, 1942, the United States Naval Construction Force (referred to in this preamble as
Seabees
) was granted official permission by the Navy to use the name
Seabees
;
Whereas, in 1942, Frank J. Iafrate, a native of North Providence, Rhode Island, who later joined the Seabees as a Chief Carpenter’s Mate, designed the
Fighting Bee
logo that is still used by the Seabees in 2024;
Whereas, for more than 80 years, the Seabees have built bases, airfields, roads, bridges, fueling stations, and other infrastructure, both on land and underwater, in support of the Navy and Marine Corps;
Whereas the motto of the Seabees,
Construimus, Batuimus
, Latin for
We Build, We Fight
, reflects the indispensable dual role of the Seabees in building critical warfighting infrastructure and defending the United States in combat;
Whereas the ingenuity, improvisation, and entrepreneurial spirit of the Seabees has given the Armed Forces a strategic advantage and contributed to countless successes on the battlefield for the United States since World War II;
Whereas the Seabees have served as goodwill ambassadors across the globe, performing humanitarian and civic action projects to—
(1)
improve access to sanitation, drinking water, and utilities;
(2)
build schools, hospitals, and roads; and
(3)
provide emergency relief in the aftermath of major disasters;
Whereas, with courage, creativity, and a
can-do
attitude, the Seabees have helped to build both critical infrastructure and valued friendships around the world; and
Whereas March 5, 2024, is the 82nd anniversary of the establishment of the Seabees: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
acknowledges and expresses thanks for the thousands of members of the United States Naval Construction Force (referred to in this resolution as
Seabees
) who, through ingenuity, strength, courage, and perseverance, have protected the United States and improved the lives of countless people in the United States and around the world;
(2)
honors the courage and sacrifices of those members of the Seabees who have perished in defense of the United States;
(3)
expresses unending gratitude for the many sacrifices made by the families of members of the Seabees; and
(4)
proudly recognizes the 82nd anniversary of the establishment of the Seabees.
