110 SRES 845 IS: Expressing support for the recognition of September 23, 2024, to September 29, 2024, as “Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week”.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 845
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 24, 2024
Ms. Hirono
(for herself,
Mr. Sanders
,
Mr. Bennet
,
Mr. Booker
,
Mr. Brown
,
Ms. Butler
,
Mr. Casey
,
Ms. Duckworth
,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr. Fetterman
,
Mr. Kaine
,
Ms. Klobuchar
,
Mr. Merkley
,
Mr. Padilla
,
Ms. Rosen
,
Mr. Schatz
,
Ms. Stabenow
,
Ms. Smith
,
Ms. Warren
, and
Mr. Wyden
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the recognition of September 23, 2024, to September 29, 2024, as
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week
.
Whereas the Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Program was originally authorized on September 27, 2007, by the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (
Public Law 110–84
; 121 Stat. 784);
Whereas 2024 marks the 17th anniversary of the establishment of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions by Congress;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions are degree-granting postsecondary institutions that have an undergraduate enrollment of not less than 10 percent Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander students;
Whereas the purpose of the Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Program is to improve the availability and quality of postsecondary education programs to serve Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander students;
Whereas, since 2007, over 270 colleges and universities have been eligible as Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions throughout the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific;
Whereas there are 207 funded and eligible Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions operating in the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific;
Whereas, as of the 2023–2024 academic year, 69 Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions are or have been funded in the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions are of critical importance, as they enroll, support, and graduate large proportions of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander college students, the majority of whom are overwhelmingly from families with low incomes and are first-generation college students;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions comprise only 6.9 percent of all institutions of higher education, yet enroll 46 percent of all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander undergraduate students in the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions employ many of the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander faculty, staff, and administrators in the United States;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions award 52 percent of the associate’s degrees and 45 percent of the bachelor’s degrees attained by all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander college students in the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific;
Whereas over
1/3
of the funded Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions maintain an Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander enrollment of over 20 percent;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions play a vital role in preserving the diverse culture, experiences, heritage, and history of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders;
Whereas Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions create culturally relevant academic and cocurricular programs, research, and services, which increase retention, transfer, and graduation rates while also enhancing the overall educational experiences of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander students;
Whereas celebrating the vast contributions of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions strengthens the culture of the United States; and
Whereas the achievements and goals of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions deserve national recognition: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
recognizes the achievements and goals of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions in their work to provide quality educational opportunities to Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander and other students who attend their institutions;
(2)
encourages institutions of higher education that are eligible Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions to obtain funding and establish programs to serve the unique needs of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander students, families, and communities;
(3)
recognizes the 17th anniversary of the establishment of Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions and expresses support for the designation of
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week
; and
(4)
calls on the people of the United States, including the United States territories in the Pacific, and interested groups to observe
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week
with appropriate activities, ceremonies, and programs to demonstrate support for Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions.
