118 SRES 832 IS: Supporting the designation of September 19, 2024, as “National Stillbirth Prevention Day”, recognizing tens of thousands of families in the United States that have endured a stillbirth, and seizing the opportunity to keep other families from experiencing the same tragedy.
U.S. Senate
2024-09-19
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 832
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 19, 2024
Mr. Merkley
(for himself,
Mr. Grassley
,
Mr. Booker
,
Mr. King
,
Mr. Heinrich
, and
Mr. Wyden
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
RESOLUTION
Supporting the designation of September 19, 2024, as
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
, recognizing tens of thousands of families in the United States that have endured a stillbirth, and seizing the opportunity to keep other families from experiencing the same tragedy.
Whereas approximately 21,000 pregnancies in the United States end in stillbirth each year, and the lack of access to maternal health care services has exacerbated the crisis;
Whereas racial disparities persist in birth outcomes, with Black, American Indian and Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander, and Hispanic families at the greatest risk of losing a baby to stillbirth;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the annual number of stillbirths far exceeds the number of deaths among children under 15 years of age due to sudden infant death syndrome, car accidents, drowning, guns, fire, poison, and flu combined;
Whereas stillbirths are devastating and have a profound and lifelong impact on the families who endure them;
Whereas losing a baby to stillbirth is linked to an increased risk of maternal morbidity and mortality;
Whereas, with increased awareness and better data collection, the United States will be able to better understand why stillbirths in the United States are happening at an alarming rate and identify what can be done to combat this crisis;
Whereas proven stillbirth prevention efforts have the power to save thousands of babies every year, and innovations in stillbirth prevention could save thousands of additional families nationwide every year from the heartache of losing a baby;
Whereas recognizing
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
is an opportunity to increase awareness, support evidence-based prevention efforts, promote research, encourage improved data collection and greater understanding, and provide support to those who have experienced a stillbirth; and
Whereas
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
—
(1)
celebrates the passage of the Maternal and Child Health Stillbirth Prevention Act (
Public Law 118–69
; 138 Stat. 1485), which opens up more Federal resources for stillbirth prevention activities and research; and
(2)
calls on the President and all other Federal officials to use their authority to take action to help reduce stillbirths and to ensure every expectant family is educated on how to reduce the risk of losing a baby to stillbirth: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
;
(2)
understands the importance of advancing evidence-based prevention efforts; and
(3)
requests that the President issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe
National Stillbirth Prevention Day
with appropriate awareness programs and activities.
