118 SRES 483 ATS: Commending the officers of the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service for 225 years of work protecting, promoting, and advancing the health and safety of the United States.
U.S. Senate
2023-12-04
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 483
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 4, 2023
Mr. Wyden
(for himself and
Mr. Sullivan
) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Commending the officers of the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service for 225 years of work protecting, promoting, and advancing the health and safety of the United States.
Whereas the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service traces its antecedents to the creation of the Marine Hospital Service in the Act entitled
An Act for the relief of sick and disabled seamen
, approved July 16, 1798 (1 Stat. 605);
Whereas the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service has compiled an exceptional record of service to the health of the people of the United States and the world through concerted efforts in disease prevention, health promotion, environmental intervention, disease control, biomedical research, health care delivery, health program management, policy development, and implementation;
Whereas the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service has been instrumental in the achievement of many innovations and breakthroughs throughout the field of health care;
Whereas the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service continues to serve underserved and vulnerable populations in hard-to-fill, and often hazardous and remote, duty stations;
Whereas, because of the diverse and varied training and background of its officers, the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service has maintained a highly effective, mobile, and adaptive cadre of health and medical experts that have performed efficiently during public health emergencies, including pandemics, epidemics, natural disasters, and other adverse situations, with courage, proficiency, and valor;
Whereas the officers of the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service have worked to eradicate diseases such as smallpox, and have improved the health of mothers, children, and handicapped individuals through significant accomplishments such as the control of tuberculosis and the development of protective vaccines; and
Whereas the officers of the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service have bravely put themselves at great personal risk to combat recent disease outbreaks related to Ebola, Zika, H1N1 flu, and COVID–19: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate commends all of the officers of the Commissioned Corps of the United States Public Health Service in observance of the 225th anniversary of the Commissioned Corps.
