Section 1

.

Establishment of Interagency Environment Committee

.  ) is hereby established to coordinate   efforts to monitor and enforce environmental obligations consistent with title VIII of the Act and, with respect to   and  , to carry out assessments of their environmental laws and policies, to carry out monitoring actions with respect to the implementation and maintenance of their environmental obligations, and to request enforcement actions as provided for in section 814 of the Act.

 . 2

.

Membership

. The   shall be composed of   ( ) and representatives of  ,  ,  ,   in  ,   and the Animal and   in  ,   in  ,   in  ,  , and    , and representatives from other Federal agencies, as the President determines to be appropriate. The   shall serve as  . The   may invite representatives from other executive departments or agencies, as appropriate, to participate as members or observers. Each executive department, agency, and component represented on the   shall ensure that the necessary staff are available to assist their respective representatives in performing the responsibilities of the  .

 . 3

.

Committee Decision-making

. The   shall endeavor to make any decision on an action or determination under sections 812, 813, and 814 of the Act by consensus, which shall be deemed to exist where no   member objects to the proposed action or determination. If the   is unable to reach a consensus on a proposed action or determination and the   determines that allotting further time will cause a decision to be unduly delayed, the   shall decide the matter by majority vote of its members.

 . 4

.

 

. The heads of the executive departments and agencies set forth in section 2 of this order, in consultation with the  , may prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the authorities of the respective department or agency as provided for under subtitle A of title VIII of the Act.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses incurred in connection with the  's functions described in sections 811, 812, 813, 814, and 816 of the Act.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
