Section 1.

Policy

. Importers that unlawfully evade antidumping and countervailing duties expose   employers to unfair competition and deprive   of lawful revenue. As of  , $2.3 billion in antidumping and countervailing duties owed to the Government remained uncollected, often from importers that lack assets located in  . It is therefore the policy of   to impose appropriate bonding requirements, based on risk assessments, on entries of articles subject to antidumping and countervailing duties, when necessary to protect the revenue of  .

 . 2

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "importer" has the meaning given in section   of title 19, United States Code; and

(b) the term "covered importer" means any importer of articles subject to antidumping or countervailing duties for which one of the following is true:   ( ) has no record of previous imports by the importer;   has a record of the importer's failure to fully pay antidumping or countervailing duties; or   has a record of the importer's failure to pay antidumping or countervailing duties in a timely manner.

 . 3

.

Implementation Plan Development

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , develop a plan that would require covered importers that, based on a risk assessment conducted by  , pose a risk to the revenue of  , to provide security for antidumping and countervailing duty liability through bonds and other legal measures, and also would identify other appropriate enforcement measures. This plan shall be consistent with the requirements of section   and section   of title 19, United States Code, and corresponding regulations.

 . 4

.

Trade and  . (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , through the Commissioner of  , shall develop and implement a strategy and plan for combating violations of   trade and customs laws for goods and for enabling interdiction and disposal, including through methods other than seizure, of inadmissible merchandise entering through any mode of transportation, to the extent authorized by law.

(b) To ensure the timely and efficient enforcement of laws protecting   (IPR) holders from the importation of counterfeit goods, the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate steps, including rulemaking if necessary, to ensure that   can, consistent with law, share with rights holders:

(i) any information necessary to determine whether there has been an   infringement or violation; and (ii) any information regarding merchandise voluntarily abandoned, as defined in section 127.12 of title 19, Code of Federal Regulations, before seizure, if the Commissioner of   reasonably believes that the successful importation of the merchandise would have violated   trade laws.

 . 5

.

Priority Enforcement

. The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall develop recommended prosecution practices and allocate appropriate resources to ensure that Federal prosecutors accord a high priority to prosecuting significant offenses related to violations of trade laws.

 . 6

.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
