Section 1

.

Policy

. There are presently more than 20 million people of     or   (AAPI) descent residing in  , which amounts to more than 6 percent of the population. The   population is the most rapidly growing ethnic group in the country and is expected to increase to over 40 million individuals by  . At that time, people of AAPI descent are projected to be more than 9 percent of the  's population.     and   have helped build a strong and vibrant  . Generations of AAPI individuals, families, and communities are composed of diverse and varied ethnicities, languages, and cultures, and include residents of   territories and freely associated states. They play an important economic role, having started businesses and generated jobs that pay billions of dollars in wages and taxes, including founding some of our  's most successful and innovative enterprises.     and   have made important contributions to science and technology, culture and the arts, and the professions, such as business, law, medicine, education, politics, and economics. Their shared accomplishments and legacies are an inspirational, significant, and celebrated part of the   experience.

While we celebrate the many contributions of the   communities to our  , we also recognize that   communities and enterprises encounter challenges accessing economic resources and opportunities. Many of the more than 1.9 million AAPI-owned enterprises are small sole-proprietorships that need assistance to access available resources such as business development counseling, small-business loans, and government procurement opportunities.  's AAPI workforce is the largest it has been in   history, and we will continue striving toward furthering   advancement in employment and workforce development as well as increasing AAPI participation and representation in the upper levels of leadership in the public and private sectors.

The purpose of this order is to establish the President's   on     and   and   Initiative on     and  . Each will work to broaden access by   employers and communities to economic resources and opportunities, thus empowering AAPIs to improve the quality of their lives, raise the standard of living of their families and communities, and more fully participate in our economy. Additionally, each will work to advance relevant evidence-based research, data collection, and analysis for   populations, subpopulations, and businesses.

 . 2

.

President's   on     and  

. The President's   on     and   (the "Commission") is established in  . (a)

Mission and Function of the  

. The   shall provide advice to the President, through the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , who shall serve as   of the   described in section 3 of this order, on:

(i) the development, monitoring, and coordination of executive branch efforts to broaden access by   employers and communities to economic resources and opportunities;

(ii) strategies for encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship in   communities, empowering the economic growth of   enterprises and communities, and increasing AAPI business diversification, including through general reductions in regulatory and tax burdens;

(iii) strategies for increasing Federal procurement opportunities for   enterprises;

(iv) strategies for increasing participation of   enterprises in partnerships between the public and private sectors;

(v) economic strategies for   enterprises and communities to employ existing knowledge and relationships in order to pursue trade and investment opportunities in the Asia-Pacific region;

(vi) opportunities to empower students and families with the freedom to pursue the educational opportunities that best prepare them for success in life and work;

(vii) strategies for increasing the diversity of our workforce with greater inclusion of   employees through better recruitment, training, educational workshops, career development, advancement, vocational training, or other appropriate and effective means;

(viii) the compilation and analysis of research and data related to   populations, subpopulations, and businesses; and

(ix) an analysis of the economic condition of   territories and freely associated states in an effort to devise strategies for helping each island develop and maintain a strong and diversified economy that supports its residents.

(b)

Membership of the  

. The   shall consist of members appointed by the President who are   citizens or nationals, or who are citizens of  ,  , or   of   who are subject to an applicable compact of free association with  , and shall include individuals having a history of engagement and involvement with   communities and enterprises. The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as  .

(c)

Administration of the  

. (i) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , shall designate an Executive Director for the  .   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and shall, as necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from   in support of the  . The heads of other executive departments and

agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out its functions. Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses of assisting the  .

(ii) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

(d)

Termination Date

. The   shall terminate   from the date of this order, unless renewed by the President prior to that date.

 . 3

.

White House Initiative on     and  

. There is established   Initiative on     and   (Initiative), a   interagency working group whose members shall be selected by their respective agencies.   and   shall serve as   of the   and shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work pursuant to the guidance and direction of the President. The Executive Director established in section 2(c) of this order shall serve in the same role for the   and shall report to  , or their designees, on   matters.

(a)

Mission and Function of the Initiative

. The Initiative shall work to broaden   access to economic resources and opportunities and thus empower AAPIs to improve the quality of their lives, raise the standard of living of their families and communities, and more fully participate in our economy. The Initiative shall advise   on the implementation and coordination of Federal programs as they relate to   access to economic resources and opportunities.

(b)

Membership of the Initiative

. In addition to  , the   shall consist of senior officials from the following executive branch departments, agencies, and offices:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ; (xiii)  ;

( )  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi)  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii)  ;

(xix)  ;

(xx)  ;

(xxi)  ;

(xxii)  ;

(xxiii)  ;

(xxiv)  ;

(xxv)  ; and

(xxvi) other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

The heads of each of the foregoing executive branch departments, agencies, and offices shall designate the senior   officials who will serve as their respective representatives on the  . At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees under this section, as appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, members of the  , or their designees, shall devote the time, skill, and resources necessary and adequate to carry out the functions of the  . Each executive department, agency, and office shall bear its own expenses for participating in the  .

(c)

Administration of the Initiative

.   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and shall, as necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from   in support of the  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) This order supersedes section 1(s) of Executive Order   of   ( ), and Executive Order   of   (Increasing Participation of     and   in  ).

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) For purposes of this order, the term "   " includes persons within the jurisdiction of   having origins or ancestry in any of the original peoples of East Asia, Southeast Asia, or South Asia; and the term "Pacific Islander" includes persons within the jurisdiction of   having origins or ancestry in any of the original peoples of  ,  ,  ,  , or other Pacific Islands.

(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
