Section 1

. (a) The following actions are prohibited:

(i) beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on  , any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any     military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, by any   person; and

(ii) beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on the date that is   after a person is determined to be a     military company pursuant to section (4)(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of that person, by any   person. (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(i) of this section, purchases for value or sales made on or before 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on  , solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any   person held as of 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on  , in a     military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, are permitted.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(ii) of this section, for a person determined to be a     military company pursuant to section 4(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, purchases for value or sales made on or   from the date of such determination, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any   person held in such person, as of   from the date of such determination, are permitted.

(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.

 . 2

. (a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3

. (a) The Secretary of the  , after consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

(b) Rules and regulations issued pursuant to this order may, among other things, establish procedures to license transactions otherwise prohibited pursuant to this order. But prior to issuing any license under this order, the Secretary of the   shall consult with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  .

 . 4

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) the term "    military company" means

(i) any person that the Secretary of   has listed as a     military company operating directly or indirectly in   or in any of its territories or possessions pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, as of the date of this order, and as set forth in the   to this order, until such time as the Secretary of   removes such person from such list;

(ii) any person that the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , determines is a     military company operating directly or indirectly in   or in any of its territories or possessions and therefore lists as such pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, until such time as the Secretary of   removes such person from such list; or

(iii) any person that the Secretary of the   publicly lists as meeting the criteria in section 1237(b)(4)(B) of Public Law 105-261, or publicly lists as a subsidiary of a person already determined to be a     military company, until the Secretary of the   determines that such person no longer meets that criteria and removes such person from such list.

(b) the term "entity" means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(d) the terms "security" and "securities" include the definition of "security" in section 3(a)(10) of   of  , Public Law 73-291, as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10), except that currency or any note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker's acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding  , exclusive of   of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited, shall be a security for purposes of this order.

(e) the term "transaction" means the purchase for value of any publicly traded security; and

(f) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 5

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and, as appropriate, the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
