1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid and CHIP Territory Transparency and Information Act
.
2.
Publication of information on Federal expenditures under Medicaid and CHIP in the territories
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall publish, and periodically update, on the Internet site of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services information on Medicaid and CHIP carried out in the territories of the United States. Such information shall include, with respect to each such territory—
(1)
the income levels established by the territory for purposes of eligibility of an individual to receive medical assistance under Medicaid or child health assistance under CHIP;
(2)
the number of individuals enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP in such territory;
(3)
any State plan amendments in effect to carry out Medicaid or CHIP in such territory;
(4)
any waiver of the requirements of title XIX or title XXI issued by the Secretary to carry out Medicaid or CHIP in the territory, including a waiver under section 1115 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315
), any application for such a waiver, and any documentation related to such application (including correspondence);
(5)
the amount of the Federal and non-Federal share of expenditures under Medicaid and CHIP in such territory;
(6)
the systems in place for the furnishing of health care items and services under Medicaid and CHIP in such territory;
(7)
the design of CHIP in such territory; and
(8)
other information regarding the carrying out of Medicaid and CHIP in the territory that is published on such Internet site with respect to carrying out Medicaid and CHIP in each State and the District of Columbia.
3.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
CHIP
The term
CHIP
means the State Children’s Health Insurance Program under title XXI of Social Security Act.
(2)
Medicaid
The term
Medicaid
means the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act.
(3)
Territory
The term
territory of the United States
includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
