1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stranded Nuclear Waste Accountability Act of 2016
.
2.
Program for payments to communities that are impacted by interim storage of spent nuclear fuel
(a)
Program
The Secretary of Energy shall establish and carry out a program to make payments to units of general local government within the jurisdictional boundaries of which an eligible civilian nuclear power plant is located.
(b)
Payments
(1)
Amount
Except as provided in paragraph (3), a payment made to a unit of general local government under the program established under subsection (a) shall be equal to $15 per kilogram of spent nuclear fuel stored at the eligible civilian nuclear power plant that is located within the jurisdictional boundaries of such unit of general local government.
(2)
Number and frequency
For each eligible civilian nuclear power plant, the Secretary may only make one payment to one unit of general local government per fiscal year under the program established under subsection (a).
(3)
Pro rata reduction
For any fiscal year, the Secretary shall, on a pro rata basis, reduce the amount paid to a unit of general local government under the program established under subsection (a) as necessary to ensure, to the extent possible, that a payment is made to a unit of general local government with respect to each eligible civilian nuclear power plant for that fiscal year.
(4)
Annual application
In order to be eligible to receive a payment under the program established under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, a unit of general local government shall submit an application to the Secretary.
(c)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Civilian nuclear power reactor
The term
civilian nuclear power reactor
has the meaning given such term in section 2(6) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (
42 U.S.C. 10101(6)
).
(2)
Eligible civilian nuclear power plant
The term
eligible civilian nuclear power plant
means a site at which—
(A)
each civilian nuclear power reactor located at such site has ceased generating electricity prior to the date of enactment of this Act; and
(B)
spent nuclear fuel is being stored.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(4)
Spent nuclear fuel
The term
spent nuclear fuel
has the meaning given such term in section 2(23) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (
42 U.S.C. 10101(23)
).
(5)
Unit of general local government
The term
unit of general local government
has the meaning given such term in section 2(28) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (
42 U.S.C. 10101(28)
).
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for the program established under subsection (a) for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2023.
