1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Taxpayer-Funded Travel Transparency Act of 2016
.
2.
Requiring Members of House to post information on costs of certain taxpayer-funded travel
(a)
Requirement for Members
(1)
In general
Each Member of the House of Representatives shall post on the Member’s official public website, and shall provide to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives—
(A)
a description of each trip taken by the Member for which transportation, lodging, or related expenses were paid by the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or an office of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the amounts paid by the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or office of the House for such expenses.
(2)
Exception for Members’ Representational Allowance
Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to a trip taken by a Member for which expenses were paid by the Members’ Representational Allowance of such Member.
(b)
Clearinghouse of information on Committee website
The Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives shall maintain on its official public website a clearinghouse of all of the information provided to the Committee under subsection (a) by all Members of the House.
(c)
Regulations
The Committee on House Administration shall promulgate such regulations as it considers appropriate to carry out this section.
3.
Determination and disclosure of expenses incurred by Department of Defense and Department of State
in paying Member travel expenses
(a)
Requirements for Secretary of Defense
In the case of a trip taken by a Member of the House of Representatives for which the Department of Defense pays transportation, lodging, or related expenses, the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1)
determine the cost of the transportation, lodging, and related expenses paid with respect to the Member; and
(2)
subject to subsection (c), provide the Member with a written statement of the expenses not later than 10 days after completion of the trip involved.
(b)
Requirements for Secretary of State
In the case of a trip taken by a Member of the House of Representatives for which the Department of State pays transportation, lodging, or related expenses, the Secretary of State shall—
(1)
determine the cost of the transportation, lodging, and related expenses paid with respect to the Member; and
(2)
subject to subsection (c), provide the Member with a written statement of the expenses not later than 10 days after completion of the trip involved.
(c)
Exception for disclosures affecting national security
The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of paragraph (2) of subsection (a), and the Secretary of State may waive the application of paragraph (2) of subsection (b), with respect to a statement of expenses relating to a trip taken by a Member of the House of Representatives if the Secretary determines that providing the statement of expenses may affect national security.
4.
Definition
In this Act, the term
Member of the House of Representatives
includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
5.
Effective Date
This Act shall apply with respect to trips taken on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, except that this Act does not apply with respect to any trip which began prior to such date.
