1.
Modification of requirement to impose sanctions with respect to the provision of specialized
financial messaging services to the Central Bank of Iran and other
sanctioned Iranian financial institutions
(a)
In general
Section 220(c) of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (
22 U.S.C. 8726(c)
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
(2)
in paragraph (1)—
(A)
by striking
paragraph (2)
and inserting
paragraph (3)
; and
(B)
by striking
the President may impose
and all that follows and inserting
the President shall impose sanctions pursuant to that section, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
), or paragraph (2) of this subsection with respect to the person.
; and
(3)
by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
(2)
Exclusion from the United States and revocation of visa or other documentation
(A)
In general
The sanctions described in this paragraph are, in the case of an alien determined by the President to be a senior executive or member of the board of directors of a person described in paragraph (1), denial of a visa to, and exclusion from the United States of, the alien, and revocation in accordance with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1201(i)
), of any visa or other documentation of the alien.
(B)
Definition
In this paragraph, the term
alien
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101
).
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect to any person that engages in any of the activities described in paragraph (1) of section 220(c) of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 on or after such date of enactment.
2.
Prohibition on waiver of sanctions with respect to the provision of specialized financial messaging
services to the Central Bank of Iran and other sanctioned Iranian
financial institutions
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, may not waive the requirement to impose sanctions under section 220(c) of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (as amended by section 1 of this Act).
