1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expedited Family Reunification Act of 2016
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
President Obama, on June 15, 2012, during the Rose Garden speech, announced a unilateral administrative change in United States immigration policy that the administration will not enforce broad swaths of immigration laws, including that the administration would not deport illegal immigrants brought to the United States as young children.
(2)
Over 176,000 unaccompanied alien children have been apprehended in the United States since the President’s speech (most of them from Central America) with many more expected to arrive.
(3)
These children are targeted by human traffickers, drug cartels, and other criminal organizations, and run the risk of being kidnapped, raped, killed, or otherwise harmed.
(4)
Returning these illegal immigrants to their families in their home countries would allow them to be safe, free from harm, and help reduce future flow.
3.
Repatriation of unaccompanied alien children
Section 235(a) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (
8 U.S.C. 1232
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
by amending the heading to read as follows:
Rules for unaccompanied alien children.
;
(B)
in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
who is a national or habitual resident of a country that is contiguous with the United States
; and
(C)
in subparagraph (C)—
(i)
by amending the heading to read as follows:
Agreements with foreign countries
; and
(ii)
in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting after
countries contiguous to the United States
the following
, as well as Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, and any other foreign country that the Secretary determines appropriate,
; and
(2)
in paragraph (5)(D), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
, except for an unaccompanied alien child from a contiguous country subject to the exceptions under subsection (a)(2),
and inserting
who does not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (2)(A)
.
4.
Applicability
The amendments made by section 2 shall apply to any unaccompanied alien child who was apprehended on or after June 15, 2012.
