1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Everglades Land Acquisition Act of 2016
.
2.
Land acquisition, south of Lake Okeechobee, Florida
(a)
Land acquisition authorized
The Secretary of the Interior shall carry out land acquisition projects south of Lake Okeechobee, Florida, for flood damage reduction and water storage, treatment, and conveyance purposes. Not later than December 31, 2016, the Secretary shall identify all of the land proposed to be acquired under the authority of this subsection.
(b)
Consideration
As consideration for the acquisition of land under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior may not pay more than the fair market value of the land. The Secretary may accept donations of land under such subsection.
(c)
Restoration and use
Upon acquisition of land under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers, shall provide for—
(1)
restoration of the acquired land for flood damage reduction and water storage, treatment, and conveyance purposes; and
(2)
utilization of the acquired land in conjunction with projects implementing the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan.
(d)
Land transfer authority
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Interior may transfer or sell the land acquired under subsection (a) to the Army Corps of Engineers, the State of the Florida, a political subdivision of the State, or a nonprofit conservation organization.
(2)
Operation and maintenance
If the Secretary transfers or sells the land under this section, the Secretary of the Interior and the entity that receives or purchases the land shall execute a written agreement relating to the operation and maintenance of the land and any improvements to the land.
(e)
Supplemental appropriations
For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016, to remain available until December 31, 2019, there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior for the purpose of purchasing and restoring land south of Lake Okeechobee, Florida, for flood damage reduction and water storage, treatment, and conveyance purposes:
Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
