1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act
.
2.
Eligibility requirements for State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) funding
Section 241(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1231(i)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(7)
A State (or a political subdivision of a State) shall not be eligible to enter into a contractual arrangement under paragraph (1) if the State (or political subdivision)—
(A)
has in effect any law, policy, or procedure in contravention of subsection (a) or (b) of section 642 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1373
); or
(B)
prohibits State or local law enforcement officials from gathering information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual.
.
3.
Limitation on DOJ grant programs
(a)
COPS
In the case of a State or unit of local government that received a grant award under part Q of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3796dd et seq.
), if, during a fiscal year, that State or local government is a State or local government described in subsection (c), the Attorney General shall withhold all of the amount that would otherwise be awarded to that State or unit of local government for the following fiscal year.
(b)
Byrne-JAG
In the case of a State or unit of local government that received a grant award under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3750 et seq.
), if, during a fiscal year, that State or unit of local government is described in subsection (c), the Attorney General shall withhold all of the amount that would otherwise be awarded to that State or unit of local government for the following fiscal year.
(c)
States and local governments described
A State or unit of local government described in this subsection is any State or local government that—
(1)
has in effect any law, policy, or procedure in contravention of subsection (a) or (b) of section 642 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (
8 U.S.C. 1373
); or
(2)
prohibits State or local law enforcement officials from gathering information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual.
