1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bring Jobs Back to America Act of 2015
.
2.
Modification and permanent extension of the incentives to reinvest foreign earnings in the United States
(a)
Repatriation subject to 5 percent tax rate
Section 965(a)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
85 percent
and inserting
85.7 percent
.
(b)
Permanent extension To elect repatriation
Section 965(f) of such Code is amended to read as follows:
(f)
Election
The taxpayer may elect to apply this section to any taxable year only if made on or before the due date (including extensions) for filing the return of tax for such taxable year.
.
(c)
Repatriation includes current and accumulated foreign earnings
(1)
In general
Section 965(b)(1) of such Code is amended to read as follows:
(1)
In general
The amount of dividends taken into account under subsection (a) shall not exceed the sum of the current and accumulated earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) for the year a deduction is claimed under subsection (a), without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the election year, for all controlled foreign corporations of the United States shareholder.
.
(2)
Conforming amendments
(A)
Section 965(b) of such Code is amended by striking paragraph (2) and by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.
(B)
Section 965(c) of such Code is amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
(C)
Section 965(c)(3) of such Code, as redesignated by subparagraph (B), is amended to read as follows:
(3)
Controlled groups
All United States shareholders which are members of an affiliated group filing a consolidated return under section 1501 shall be treated as one United States shareholder.
.
(d)
Clerical amendments
(1)
The heading for section 965 of such Code is amended by striking
Temporary
.
(2)
The table of sections for subpart F of part III of subchapter N of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by striking
Temporary dividends
and inserting
Dividends
.
(e)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.
