1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Local Communities from Executive Overreach Act
.
2.
Limitations on declarations of national monuments
Section 320301 of title 54, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Consultation requirement
The President may not designate lands to be a new or expanded national monument under this section unless, not more than 1 year before such designation, the Secretary of the Interior—
(1)
consulted with each community, county, municipality, city, town, or township created pursuant to State law with boundaries within or adjacent to lands affected by the designation; and
(2)
obtained the concurrence for the designation from—
(A)
the governing body of each community, county, municipality, city, town, or township described in paragraph (1); and
(B)
the wildlife management and land management authorities and governor of each State in which all or part of the new or expanded national monument would be located.
(f)
Limitations on declarations
A declaration under this section shall not—
(1)
include private property without the informed written consent of the owner of that private property;
(2)
be construed to increase the amount of funds that are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year;
(3)
apply to more than 5,000 acres; or
(4)
be used to create or expand a national monument located, in part or in whole, in the following:
(A)
The counties of Coconino, Mohave, and Yavapai in the State of Arizona.
(B)
The counties of Modoc and Siskiyou in the State of California.
(C)
The counties of Chaffee, Moffat, and Park in the State of Colorado.
(D)
The counties of Lincoln, Clark, and Nye in the State of Nevada.
(E)
The county of Otero in the State of New Mexico.
(F)
The counties of Jackson, Josephine, and Malheur in the State of Oregon.
(G)
The counties of Wayne, Garfield, and Kane in the State of Utah.
(g)
Water rights
Water rights associated with a national monument created or expanded by a declaration under this section—
(1)
may not be reserved expressly or by implication by a declaration under this section; and
(2)
may be acquired for a national monument created or expanded by declaration under this subsection only in accordance with the laws of the States in which the water rights are based.
.
