1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Energy Tax Fairness Act of 2016
.
2.
Energy credit allowed for qualified high-efficiency linear generator property
(a)
In general
Subparagraph (A) of
section 48(a)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
or
at the end of clause (vi), by adding
or
at the end of clause (vii), and by adding at the end the following new clause:
(viii)
qualified high-efficiency linear generator property,
.
(b)
Application of 30-Percent credit
Clause (i) of section 48(a)(2)(A) of such Code is amended by striking
and
at the end of subclause (III) and by adding at the end the following new subclause:
(V)
qualified high-efficiency linear generator property, and
.
(c)
Qualified high-Efficiency linear generator property
Subsection (c) of section 48 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Qualified high-efficiency linear generator property
(A)
In general
The term
qualified high-efficiency linear generator property
means a stationary linear generator power plant which has—
(i)
a nameplate capacity of less than 2,000 kilowatts, and
(ii)
an electricity-only generation efficiency of greater than 30 percent.
(B)
Limitations
In the case of qualified high-efficiency linear generator property placed in service during the taxable year, the credit otherwise determined under subsection (a) for such year with respect to such property shall not exceed an amount equal to $1,500 for each 0.5 kilowatt of capacity of such property.
(C)
Stationary linear generator power plant
The term
stationary linear generator power plant
means an integrated system consisting of translators, cylinders, electricity generating equipment, and associated balance of plant components which converts a fuel or waste heat into electricity for stationary applications. Such term shall include all secondary components located between the existing infrastructure for fuel delivery and the existing infrastructure for power distribution, including equipment and controls for meeting relevant power standards, such as voltage, frequency, and power factors.
(6)
Termination
The term ‘qualified high-efficiency linear generator property’ shall not include any stationary linear generator power plant the construction of which does not begin before January 1, 2022.
.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to periods after December 31, 2016, under rules similar to the rules of
section 48(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990).
