1.
Increasing accountability at the National Institutes of Health
(a)
Appointment and terms of directors of national research institutes and national centers
Subsection (a) of section 405 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 284
) is amended to read as follows:
(a)
Appointment; terms
(1)
Appointment
The Director of the National Cancer Institute shall be appointed by the President and the directors of the other national research institutes, as well as the directors of the national centers, shall be appointed by the Director of NIH. The directors of the national research institutes, as well as national centers, shall report directly to the Director of NIH.
(2)
Terms
(A)
In general
The term of office of a director of a national research institute or national center shall be 5 years.
(B)
Removal
The director of a national research institute or national center may be removed from office by the Director of NIH prior to the expiration of such director’s 5-year term.
(C)
Reappointment
At the end of the term of a director of a national research institute or national center, the director may be reappointed. There is no limit on the number of terms a director may serve.
(D)
Vacancies
If the office of a director of a national research institute or national center becomes vacant before the end of such director’s term, the director appointed to fill the vacancy shall be appointed for a 5-year term starting on the date of such appointment.
(E)
Transitional provision
Each director of a national research institute or national center serving on the date of enactment of the
21st Century Cures Act
is deemed to be appointed for a 5-year term under this subsection starting on such date of enactment.
.
(b)
Compensation to consultants or individual scientists
Section 202 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 (
Public Law 102–394
;
42 U.S.C. 238f
note) is amended by striking
portable structures;
and all that follows and inserting
portable structures.
.
(c)
Review of certain awards by directors
Section 405(b) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 284(b)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Before an award is made by a national research institute or by a national center for a grant for a research program or project (commonly referred to as an
R-series grant
), other than an award constituting a noncompeting renewal of such grant, or a noncompeting administrative supplement to such grant, the director of such national research institute or national center—
(A)
shall review and approve the award; and
(B)
shall take into consideration—
(i)
the mission of the national research institute or national center and the scientific priorities identified in the strategic plan under section 402(m); and
(ii)
whether other agencies are funding programs or projects to accomplish the same goal.
.
(d)
IOM study on duplication in Federal biomedical research
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall enter into an arrangement with the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies (or, if the Institute declines, another appropriate entity) under which the Institute (or other appropriate entity) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act will—
(1)
complete a study on the extent to which biomedical research conducted or supported by Federal agencies is duplicative; and
(2)
submit a report to the Congress on the results of such study, including recommendations on how to prevent such duplication.
