1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ending Special National Origin-Based Immigration Programs for Cubans Act of 2015
.
2.
Findings; sense of Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
On July 1, 2015, President Obama announced that Cuba and the United States would reopen their embassies and restore diplomatic ties.
(2)
Diplomatic relations between the two countries were formally reestablished July 20, 2015, when the United States and Cuba reopened their respective embassies.
(3)
The International Business Times reported on September 10, 2015, that
Texas is on pace this year to set a new record for the number of Cubans trying to enter the United States through the Lone Star State, with about 60 percent more migrants from the island nation making the trip in 2015 compared to one year before.
.
(4)
The Obama Administration has reestablished relations with Cuba, and that, therefore, the special treatment Cuban nationals receive under the Cuban Adjustment Act, the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Cuban Family Reunification Program and the Wet Foot/Dry Foot policy are no longer applicable and fail the
urgent humanitarian reasons
and
significant public benefit
tests.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that Cuban nationals should be treated under the same immigration rules as nationals of other countries with which the United States has diplomatic relations and should not receive preferential treatment.
3.
Repeal of the Cuban Adjustment Act
(a)
Repeals of relevant statutes
(1)
Repeal of limitation on repeal of Cuban Adjustment Act
Section 606 of title VI of division C of
Public Law 104–208
is repealed.
(2)
Cuban Adjustment Act
Public Law 89–732 is repealed.
(b)
Effective date
The repeal made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply only to any alien admitted or paroled into the United States on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Certain activities restricted
No funds, resources, or fees made available to the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, or to any other official of a Federal agency, by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year, including any deposits into the
Immigration Examinations Fee Account
established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1356(m)
), may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out (including through the issuance of any regulations) any of the policy changes set forth in the memorandum from the Director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement entitled
Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program
dated November 21, 2007 (or any substantially similar policy changes, whether set forth in memorandum, Executive order, regulation, directive, or by other action).
