1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Transplant Coverage Act of 2016
.
2.
Authorization to provide for operations on live donors for purposes of conducting transplant procedures for veterans
(a)
In general
Subchapter VIII of
chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1788.
Transplant procedures with live donors and related services
(a)
In general
In a case in which a veteran is eligible for a transplant procedure from the Department, the Secretary may provide for an operation on a live donor to carry out such procedure for such veteran, notwithstanding that the live donor may not be eligible for health care from the Department.
(b)
Other services
The Secretary shall furnish to a live donor any care or services before and after conducting the transplant procedure under subsection (a) that may be required in connection with such procedure.
(c)
Use of Department or non-Department facilities
The Secretary may provide for the operation described in subsection (a) on a live donor and furnish to the live donor the care and services described in subsection (b) at a facility of the Department or at a non-Department facility pursuant to an agreement entered into by the Secretary under section 1703 or 8153 of this title, section 101 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (
Public Law 113–146
;
38 U.S.C. 1701
note), or any other authority of the Secretary to furnish care at non-Department facilities. The live donor shall be deemed to be an individual eligible for hospital care and medical services at a non-Department facility pursuant to such an agreement solely for the purposes of receiving such operation, care, and services at the non-Department facility.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1787 the following new item:
1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related services.
.
