1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Risk-Based Capital Study Act of 2015
.
2.
NCUA Study
(a)
In general
The National Credit Union Administration shall conduct a study of the appropriate capital requirements for Federal credit unions and State credit unions (as such terms are defined, respectively, under section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752
) (hereinafter referred to as
credit unions
)).
(b)
Issues To be studied
The study required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
an analysis of whether or not the National Credit Union Administration has the clear legal authority to prescribe separate risk-based capital thresholds for both
adequately capitalized
and
well capitalized
credit unions;
(2)
a discussion of the differences between credit unions and other types of depository institutions and reasons why they should have similar or different risk-weights for their capital requirements;
(3)
a discussion of the rationale behind the risk-weights assigned in the proposed rule of the National Credit Union Administration titled
Risk-Based Capital
(80 Fed. Reg. 4340; January 27, 2015); and
(4)
an analysis of the impact the proposed rule described in paragraph (3) would have on excess capital above the minimum level for a credit union to be
well capitalized
(a credit union’s
capital cushion
) including the impact it could have on credit union lending and credit union examinations.
(c)
Voluntary participation
Any credit union may voluntarily provide information for the study required under subsection (a) upon the request of the National Credit Union Administration, but may not be required to provide such information.
(d)
Report to Congress
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the National Credit Union Administration shall issue a report to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives containing—
(1)
all findings and determinations made in carrying out the study required under subsection (a); and
(2)
any legislative recommendations of the National Credit Union Administration to improve the capital system for credit unions or establish a risk-based capital system for credit unions.
3.
Delay of rulemaking
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Credit Union Administration may not issue or implement any final rule or regulation with respect to risk-based capital for credit unions, including the proposed rule described under section 2(b)(3), before the end of the 120-day period beginning on the date the National Credit Union Administration issues the report required under section 2(d).
