1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hostage Recovery Improvement Act
.
2.
Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator
(a)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall designate an existing Federal officer to coordinate efforts to secure the release of United States citizens who are hostages of hostile groups or state sponsors of terrorism. For purposes of carrying out the duties described in subsection (b), such officer shall have the title of
Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator
.
(b)
Duties
The Coordinator shall have the following duties:
(1)
Coordinate and direct all activities of the Federal Government relating to each hostage situation described in subsection (a) to ensure efforts to secure the release of all hostages in the hostage situation are properly resourced and correct lines of authority are established and maintained.
(2)
Establish a task force consisting of appropriate personnel of the Federal Government with respect to each hostage situation described in subsection (a).
3.
Quarterly report
(a)
In general
The Coordinator shall submit to Congress a quarterly report on each hostage situation described in section 2(a) and efforts to secure the release of all hostages in such hostage situation.
(b)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex if necessary.
4.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Coordinator should develop and pursue an entire range of options with respect to each hostage situation described in section 2(a), including kinetic and non-kinetic options.
5.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Coordinator
The term
Coordinator
means the Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator designated under section 1(a).
(2)
Hostile group
The term
hostile group
means—
(A)
a group that is designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1189(a)
);
(B)
a group that is engaged in armed conflict with the United States; or
(C)
any other group that the President determines to be a hostile group for purposes of this paragraph.
(3)
State sponsor of terrorism
The term
state sponsor of terrorism
—
(A)
means a country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act, or any other provision of law, to be a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism; and
(B)
includes North Korea.
