1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2015
.
2.
Assisting veterans with military emergency medical training to meet requirements for becoming civilian emergency medical technicians
Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 243 et seq.
) is amended by inserting after section 314 the following:
315.
Assisting veterans with military emergency medical training to meet requirements for becoming
civilian emergency medical technicians
(a)
Program
The Secretary shall establish a program consisting of awarding demonstration grants to States to streamline State requirements and procedures in order to assist veterans who completed military emergency medical technician training while serving in the Armed Forces of the United States to meet certification, licensure, and other requirements applicable to becoming an emergency medical technician in the State.
(b)
Use of funds
Amounts received as a demonstration grant under this section shall be used to prepare and implement a plan to streamline State requirements and procedures as described in subsection (a), including by—
(1)
determining the extent to which the requirements for the education, training, and skill level of emergency medical technicians in the State are equivalent to requirements for the education, training, and skill level of military emergency medical technicians; and
(2)
identifying methods, such as waivers, for military emergency medical technicians to forego or meet any such equivalent State requirements.
(c)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a grant under this section, a State shall demonstrate that the State has a shortage of emergency medical technicians.
(d)
Report
The Secretary shall submit to the Congress an annual report on the program under this section.
(e)
Funding
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section. This section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purpose.
.
