1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Designating Requirements On Notification of Executive-ordered Strikes Act
or
DRONES Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed
Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on the
Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed
Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Oversight
and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.
(2)
Preplanned lethal operation
The term
preplanned lethal operation
does not include, limit, or restrict actions taken in immediate self defense or immediate defense
of others by members of the Armed Forces, law enforcement officers, or
other persons authorized to use lethal force in the execution of their
duties.
(3)
Strategic treaty ally
The term
strategic treaty ally
refers to a member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Japan, the Republic of South
Korea, and any other country with which the United States has entered into
a security treaty.
3.
Scope of Act
(a)
Covered entities
This Act applies to all Federal departments and agencies and the Armed Forces.
(b)
Covered preplanned lethal operations
This Act only applies to preplanned lethal operations that deliberately target a citizen of the
United States or a citizen of a strategic treaty ally of the United
States.
4.
Limitation on preplanned lethal operations targeting United States citizens or citizens of
strategic treaty allies
(a)
Limitation
A Federal department or agency or the Armed Forces may not deliberately target a citizen of the
United States or a citizen of a strategic treaty ally of the United States
in a preplanned lethal operation unless the preplanned lethal operation is
planned and executed pursuant to a written determination signed personally
by the President—
(1)
confirming the status of the targeted citizen as an enemy combatant; and
(2)
authorizing the deliberate lethal targeting of the citizen based on an articulated need for the use
of such lethal force.
(b)
Congressional notification
Not later than 30 days after making a determination under subsection (a), the President shall
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report, in classified
form if necessary—
(1)
certifying that the timing and details of the preplanned lethal operation were approved personally
by the President; and
(2)
describing in detail—
(A)
the information used to determine that the targeted citizen is an enemy combatant; and
(B)
the reasons why the use of lethal force was necessary.
(c)
Delegation
The President may not delegate—
(1)
the final determination of enemy combatant status; and
(2)
the final approval of timing and details of the execution of the preplanned lethal operation.
5.
Prohibition on preplanned lethal operations inside the territory of the United States
Nothing in this Act may be construed to authorize any Federal department or agency or the Armed
Forces to deliberately target a citizen of the United States or a citizen
of a strategic treaty ally in a preplanned lethal operation inside the
territory of the United States or any location under the jurisdiction of
the United States.
