1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans Act
.
2.
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 74
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 7405
the following new section:
7405A.
Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall use the authority under section 7405 of this title to seek to employ physicians on a without compensation basis in any practice area or speciality for which—
(1)
the average waiting time for veterans seeking an appointment with a physician in such practice area or specialty exceeds the waiting time goals established by the Department; or
(2)
the medical facility of the Department where the physician will be employed has demonstrated staffing shortages, as determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Volunteer coordinators
There shall be in each medical facility of the Department a volunteer coordinator. The volunteer coordinator for a medical facility shall—
(1)
seek to establish relationships with medical associations serving the area where the facility is located;
(2)
recruit physicians for employment on a without compensation basis in the facility; and
(3)
serve as the initial point of contact for physicians seeking employment on a without compensation basis in the facility.
(c)
Qualifications
A physician employed on a without compensation basis under this section shall agree, as a condition of being granted a credential or privilege to practice medicine in a medical facility of the Department, to commit to serving a minimum of 40 hours in the facility during the one-year period beginning on the date on which such credential or privilege is granted.
(d)
Credentialing process
(1)
The Secretary shall ensure that each physician who seeks employment at the Department on a without compensation basis under this section receives a credential or privilege to practice medicine in the Department, or a decision that such a credential or privilege will not be granted, by not later than 60 days after the date on which the physician requests such credential or privilege.
(2)
The director of a medical facility of the Department shall approve, and accept the services of, any physician who meets the qualifications under subsection (c) and receives a credential or privilege to practice medicine in the facility under paragraph (1).
(e)
Annual report
(1)
Not later than March 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on physicians employed on a without compensation basis at the Department under this section.
(2)
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, for the year preceding the year during which the report is submitted, each of the following:
(A)
The number of physicians employed on a without compensation basis under this section by the Department in each of the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
(B)
Information about staffing levels and appointment waiting times for facilities located in each such Veterans Integrated Service Network.
(f)
Treatment of physicians in annual staffing determination
Any physician employed on a without compensation basis under this section shall not be considered in determining under section 7412(a) of this title whether there is a staffing shortage throughout the Department with respect to a particular occupation.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7405 the following new item:
7405A. Physician Ambassadors Helping Veterans program.
.
