1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
National Intersection and Interchange Safety Construction Program Act of 2015
.
2.
National Intersection and Interchange Safety Construction Program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a national intersection and interchange safety construction program (in this section referred to as the
Program
) to assist safety improvements for high-risk intersections and interchanges.
(b)
Grant authority
(1)
In general
In carrying out the Program, the Secretary may make a grant to a covered entity in accordance with this section.
(2)
Competitive basis
The Secretary shall award grants under the Program on a competitive basis.
(c)
Project requirements
The Secretary may only make a grant under the Program to assist a project that—
(1)
is eligible for funding under title 23, United States Code; and
(2)
will improve the safety of an intersection or interchange that is—
(A)
on the National Highway System;
(B)
used by an average of 50,000 vehicles a day; and
(C)
in immediate need of improvement with respect to safety.
(d)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, a covered entity shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines is appropriate.
(e)
Limitation
The aggregate amount provided to a covered entity in a fiscal year through grants under the Program may not exceed 5 percent of the amount made available for all grants under the Program in that fiscal year.
(f)
Congressional review
At least 90 days before establishing the Program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report detailing the selection process the Secretary shall use in making grants under the Program.
(g)
Covered entity defined
In this section, the term
covered entity
means each of the following:
(1)
A State government entity.
(2)
A local government entity.
(3)
A territory of the United States.
(4)
A tribal government.
(5)
A metropolitan planning organization.
(6)
Any entity composed of 2 or more entities described in paragraphs (1) through (5).
(h)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $250,000,000 each fiscal year.
