Executive Order  —  and Spurring Innovation in the Defense Industrial Base
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. As Chief Executive and Commander in Chief, I am committed to ensuring that   military possesses the most lethal warfighting capabilities in the world.  's defense industrial base is central to this effort. Similarly, the defense acquisition workforce is a national strategic asset that will be decisive in any conflict, where the factory floor can be just as significant as the battlefield.

Unfortunately, after   of misplaced priorities and poor management, our defense acquisition system does not provide the speed and flexibility our   need to have decisive advantages in the future. In order to strengthen our military edge,   must deliver state-of-the-art capabilities at speed and scale through a comprehensive overhaul of this system.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to accelerate defense procurement and revitalize the defense industrial base to restore peace through strength. To achieve this,   will rapidly reform our antiquated defense acquisition processes with an emphasis on speed, flexibility, and execution. We will also modernize the duties and composition of the defense acquisition workforce, as well as incentivize and reward risk-taking and innovation from these personnel.

 . 3

.

Acquisition Process Reform

. Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit to the President a plan to reform   acquisition processes that, to the maximum extent possible, incorporates the following:

(a) Utilization of existing authorities to expedite acquisitions throughout  , including a first preference for commercial solutions and a general preference for Other Transactions Authority, application of   policies, or any other authorities or pathways to promote streamlined acquisitions under the Adaptative Acquisition Framework. Starting upon issuance of this order, and during the formation of the plan, the Secretary of   shall prioritize use of these authorities in all pending   contracting actions and require their application, where appropriate and consistent with applicable law, for   contracting actions pursued while the plan directed by this section is under consideration.

(b) A detailed process review of each functional support role within the acquisition workforce to eliminate unnecessary tasks, reduce duplicative approvals, and centralize decision-making. These reviews should also include evaluations of program managers, contracting officers, engineering authorities, financial managers, cost estimators, and logisticians.

(c) A detailed process by which the Under Secretary of   Executives, and Component Acquisition Executives can effectively manage risk for all acquisition programs through a formal steering board known as a  .

 . 4

.

Internal Regulations Review

. The Secretary of   shall oversee the review of and, as appropriate, propose revisions to relevant   instructions, implementation guides, manuals, and regulations relating to acquisition to:

(a) Eliminate or revise any unnecessary supplemental regulations or any other internal guidance, such as relevant parts of  .

(b) Promote expedited and streamlined acquisitions. Where new supplemental regulations or internal guidance is proposed, the Secretary of   shall apply the ten-for-one rule as described in Executive Order   (Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation).

 . 5

.

Acquisition Workforce Reform

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and Component Acquisition Executives, shall develop and submit to the President a plan for consideration to reform, right-size, and train the acquisition workforce that includes the following components:

(a) The restructuring of performance evaluation metrics for acquisition workforce members to include the ability to demonstrate and apply a first consideration of commercial solutions, adaptive acquisition pathways through  , and iterative requirements based on the perspective of the end user.

(b) An analysis of acquisition workforce staff levels required to develop, deliver, and sustain warfighting capabilities.

(c) The establishment of field training teams by the Under Secretary of  , led by senior acquisition executives or managers with expertise in innovative acquisition authorities and commercial solutions, and modeled after field training teams authorized by section 832 of Public Law 118-159 (10 U.S.C.  ). These teams should provide hands-on guidance, deliver templates and case studies of successful approaches for implementing innovative acquisition authorities, and should assist integrated functional program teams in completing acquisition and sustainment tasks.

(d) The development and implementation of policies, procedures, and tools to incentivize acquisition officials to, in good faith, utilize innovative acquisition authorities and take measured and calculated risks.

 . 6

.

Major Defense Acquisition Program Review

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , acting through the Deputy Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Under Secretary of  , and Component Acquisition Executives, shall complete a comprehensive review of all major defense acquisition programs (MDAPs), as defined in section   of title 10, United States Code, to determine if any such programs are inconsistent with the policy objectives set forth in section 2 of this order. As part of the review of all MDAPs:

(i) any program more than 15 percent behind schedule based on the current Acquisition Program Baseline (APB), 15 percent over cost based on the current  , unable to meet any key performance parameters, or unaligned with the Secretary of  's mission priorities, will be considered for potential cancellation. The Secretary of   shall submit the potential cancellation list to the Director of   (OMB) for future budget determinations.

(ii) the Secretary of   shall provide a listing of all MDAPs contracts, along with performance against original and approved Government cost estimates to the Director of OMB for review within   from the date of this order.

(b) Following this comprehensive review of  , the Secretary of   shall provide the Director of OMB with a plan for reviewing all remaining major systems, as defined in section   of title 10, United States Code, that are not MDAPs.

 . 7

.

Requirements

. The Secretary of  , acting through the Deputy Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , shall complete a comprehensive review of   within   of the date of this order, with the goal of streamlining and accelerating acquisition.

 . 8

.

Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) The term "Adaptive Acquisition Framework" means the series of acquisition pathways that enable the workforce to deliver "effective, suitable, survivable, sustainable, and affordable solutions to the end user in a timely manner," as stated in  .

(b) The term "Acquisition Program Baseline" means the formally established cost, schedule, and performance baselines of a program, as described in   5000.85.

(c) The term "commercial solutions" means any of the methods for procurement of a commercial product or service described in part 12 of  , subpart 212.2 of  , or subpart 212.70 of  ; or other industry solutions funded by private investment that meet military needs.

(d) The term " " means an annual review of potential requirements changes, critical intelligence parameter changes, and any significant technical configuration changes as described in   5000.85.

(e) The term "innovative acquisition authorities" means Other  , commercial solutions, application of   policies, or any other authorities or pathways to promote streamlined acquisitions under the Adaptive Acquisition Framework.

(f) The term "Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System" means the formally established   process used to identify, assess, and prioritize joint military capability requirements across  .

(g) The term "Other Transactions Authority" means the ability of   to enter into contracts other than standard contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements.

(h) The term " " means   and  ,  ,  , or  .

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
