Executive Order  —  From Criminal Aliens
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. Federal supremacy with respect to immigration, national security, and foreign policy is axiomatic. The Constitution provides   with plenary authority regarding immigration to protect the sovereignty of our   and to conduct relations with other nations, who must be able to deal with one national Government on such matters. This power is sometimes contained in specific constitutional provisions: Article II of the Constitution vests the power to protect national security and conduct foreign policy in the President of  , and Article IV, Section 4, requires   to "protect each of [the States] against Invasion." This Federal power over immigration is also an inherent element of national sovereignty.

The prior administration allowed unchecked millions of aliens to illegally enter  . The resulting public safety and national security risks are exacerbated by the presence of, and control of territory by, international cartels and other transnational criminal organizations along the southern border, as well as terrorists and other malign actors who intend to harm   and the   people. This invasion at the southern border requires   to take measures to fulfill its obligation to the  .

Yet some   and local officials nevertheless continue to use their authority to violate, obstruct, and defy the enforcement of Federal immigration laws. This is a lawless insurrection against the supremacy of Federal law and   obligation to defend the territorial sovereignty of  . Beyond the intolerable national security risks, such nullification efforts often violate Federal criminal laws, including those prohibiting obstruction of justice (18 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), unlawfully harboring or hiring illegal aliens (8 U.S.C.  ), conspiracy against   (18 U.S.C. 371), and conspiracy to impede   (18 U.S.C. 372). Assisting aliens in violating   law could also violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C.  

et seq

.). Some measures to assist illegal aliens also necessarily violate Federal laws prohibiting discrimination against   in favor of illegal aliens and protecting  ' civil rights.

It is imperative that   restore the enforcement of   law.

 . 2

.

Designation of "Sanctuary" Jurisdictions

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall publish a list of   and local jurisdictions that obstruct the enforcement of Federal immigration laws (sanctuary jurisdictions). After this initial publication, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall update this list as necessary.

(b) Immediately following each publication under subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall notify each sanctuary jurisdiction regarding its defiance of   and any potential violations of Federal criminal law.

 . 3

.

Consequences for Sanctuary Jurisdiction Status

. (a) With respect to sanctuary jurisdictions that are designated under section 2(a) of this order, the head of each executive department or agency (agency), in coordination with the Director of   and as permitted by law, shall identify appropriate   funds to sanctuary jurisdictions, including grants and contracts, for suspension or termination, as appropriate.

(b) With respect to jurisdictions that remain sanctuary jurisdictions after   or local officials are provided notice of such status under section 2(b) of this order and yet remain in defiance of Federal law, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall pursue all necessary legal remedies and enforcement measures to end these violations and bring such jurisdictions into compliance with the laws of  .

 . 4

.

Preventing Federal Benefits for Aliens in  

. The Secretary of  , in coordination with the Attorney General, shall develop guidance, rules, or other appropriate mechanisms to ensure appropriate eligibility verification is conducted for individuals receiving Federal public benefits within the meaning of 8 U.S.C. 1611(c) from private entities in a sanctuary jurisdiction, whether such verification is conducted by the private entity or by a governmental entity on its behalf.

 . 5

.

Equal Treatment of  

. The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of   and appropriate agency heads, shall identify and take appropriate action to stop the enforcement of   and local laws, regulations, policies, and practices favoring aliens over any groups of   citizens that are unlawful, preempted by Federal law, or otherwise unenforceable, including   laws that provide in-State higher education tuition to aliens but not to out-of-State   citizens that may violate 8 U.S.C.   or that favor aliens in criminal charges or sentencing.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for this order's publication in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
