Executive Order  —Restoring America's Maritime Dominance
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The commercial shipbuilding capacity and maritime workforce of   has been weakened by   of Government neglect, leading to the decline of a once strong industrial base while simultaneously empowering our adversaries and eroding   national security. Both our allies and our strategic competitors produce ships for a fraction of the cost needed in  . Recent data shows that   constructs less than one percent of commercial ships globally, while   ( ) is responsible for producing approximately half.

Rectifying these issues requires a comprehensive approach that includes securing consistent, predictable, and durable Federal funding, making  -flagged and built vessels commercially competitive in international commerce, rebuilding  's maritime manufacturing capabilities (the Maritime Industrial Base), and expanding and strengthening the recruitment, training, and retention of the relevant workforce.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to revitalize and rebuild domestic maritime industries and workforce to promote national security and economic prosperity.

 . 3

.

Maritime Action Plan

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,   ( ), and the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) the APNSA deems appropriate, shall submit a Maritime Action Plan ( ) to the President, through the APNSA and the Director of   (OMB Director) to achieve the policy set forth in this order.

(b) The OMB Director, in coordination with the APNSA, shall be responsible for all legislative, regulatory, and fiscal assessments related to the  .

(c) The   shall, to the extent permissible and consistent with applicable law, including the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C.  ), reflect actions taken pursuant to sections 4 through 21 of this order.

 . 4

.

Ensure the Security and Resilience of the Maritime Industrial Base

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , shall provide to the APNSA and the   Director for inclusion in the   an assessment of options both for the use of available authorities and resources, such as Defense Production Act Title III authorities, and for the use of private capital to the maximum extent possible to invest in and expand the Maritime Industrial Base including, but not limited to, investment and expansion of commercial and defense shipbuilding capabilities, component supply chains, ship repair and marine transportation capabilities, port infrastructure, and the adjacent workforce. The Secretary of   shall pursue using   loan program to improve the shipbuilding industrial base. As part of their assessment, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall:

(a) identify key maritime components in the supply chain that are essential for rebuilding and expanding the Maritime Industrial Base and that should be prioritized for investment;

(b) ensure that their recommendations of public and private investments are made according to a clear metric, derived in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, of return on invested capital for   taxpayer and to the economic and national security of  ; and

(c) ensure that their recommendations take into consideration the projected increases to commercial and defense capabilities, the projected growth in economic activity, and the projected benefits for taxpayers and the workforce.

 . 5

.

Actions in the Investigation of the  's   of Maritime, Logistics, and Shipbuilding Sectors

. (a) With respect to the actions, if any, that the   determines to take consistent with the  's notice of public hearing entitled Proposed Action in Section 301 Investigation of the  's Targeting of the Maritime, Logistics, and Shipbuilding Sectors for Dominance, 90

 .  

.   ( ), the   shall:

(i) coordinate with appropriate agencies to collect additional information, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by law, in support of administering such actions; and

(ii) coordinate with the Attorney General and Secretary of   to take appropriate steps to enforce any restriction, fee, penalty, or duty imposed pursuant to such actions.

(b) Based on the  's determinations arising out of its Section 301 investigation into the  's targeting of the maritime, logistics, and shipbuilding sectors, the   shall also consider taking all necessary steps permitted by law to propose the following actions:

(i) tariffs on ship-to-shore cranes manufactured, assembled, or made using components of   origin, or manufactured anywhere in the world by a company owned, controlled, or substantially influenced by a   national; and

(ii) tariffs on other cargo handling equipment.

 . 6

.

Enforce Collection of Harbor Maintenance Fee and Other Charges

. In order to prevent cargo carriers from circumventing   (HMF) on imported goods through the practice of making port in   or   and sending their cargo into   through land borders, and to ensure the collection of other charges as applicable, the Secretary of   shall take all necessary steps, including proposing new legislation, as permitted by law to:

(a) require all foreign-origin cargo arriving by vessel to clear   ( ) entry process at a   port of entry for security and collection of all applicable duties, customs, taxes, fees, interest, and other charges; and

(b) ensure any foreign-origin cargo first arriving by vessel to North America clearing the   process at an inland location from the country of land transit (  or  ) is assessed applicable customs, duties, taxes, fees (including the  ), interest, and other charges plus a 10 percent service fee for additional costs to the  , so long as the cargo being shipped into   is not substantially transformed from its condition at the time of arrival into the country of land transit (with the discretion for such decisions to be determined by  ).

 . 7

.

 . Within   of the date of this order, the  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall engage treaty allies, partners, and other like-minded countries around the world with respect to their potential imposition of any actions taken pursuant to sections 5 and 6 of this order. The   shall deliver an engagement plan and progress report on these engagements to the President.

 . 8

.

Reduce Dependence on Adversaries through Allies and Partners

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, shall recommend to the APNSA and the   Director for inclusion in the   all available incentives to help shipbuilders domiciled in allied nations partner to undertake capital investment in   to help strengthen the shipbuilding capacity of  .

 . 9

.

Launch a Maritime Security Trust Fund

. In conjunction with the formulation of the President's  , the OMB Director shall, in coordination with the Secretary of  , develop a legislative proposal, which shall be described in detail in the  , to establish a   that can serve as a reliable funding source to deliver consistent support for   programs. This proposal shall consider how new or existing tariff revenue, fines, fees, or tax revenue could further the goal of establishing a more reliable, dedicated funding source for programs support by the  .

 . 10

.

Shipbuilding Financial Incentives Program

. In conjunction with the formulation of the President's   and consistent with the findings of the report required under section 12 of this order, the Secretary of   shall submit a legislative proposal to the APNSA and the   Director, which shall be described in detail in the  , that establishes a financial incentives program with broad flexibility to incentivize private investment in the construction of commercial components, parts, and vessels; capital improvements to commercial vessel shipyards; capital improvements to commercial vessel repair facilities and drydocks through grants; and  -compliant loans and loan guarantees. Such proposal may augment or replace existing programs with similar purpose including   and   (Title XI) Program.

 . 11

.

Establish Maritime Prosperity Zones

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , shall deliver a plan to the President through the APNSA for inclusion in the   that identifies opportunities to incentivize and facilitate domestic and allied investment in   maritime industries and waterfront communities through establishment of maritime prosperity zones. The proposal shall:

(a) model these maritime prosperity zones on the opportunity zones established pursuant to section 13823 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97, 131 Stat.  ), which I signed into law during my first Administration;

(b) include stipulations for appropriate regulatory relief in the establishment of such zones; and

(c) provide for zones that are outside of traditional coastal shipbuilding and ship repair centers and are geographically diverse, including river regions as well as the Great Lakes.

 . 12

.

Report on Maritime Industry Needs

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall deliver a report to the   Director and APNSA for inclusion in the   that inventories Federal programs that could be used to sustain and grow the supply of and demand for   maritime industry. The report and inventory shall include:

(a) any Federal programs that provide financial and regulatory incentives for   shipping, shipbuilding, and shipbuilding supply chains, including the training of shipbuilders and  -credentialed mariners;

(b)   programs such as  ,  , Maritime Security Programs,  ,  , Assistance to Small Shipyards,  ,   ( ), and programs that support the State Maritime Academies;

(c) existing domestic cargo preference laws, including   of  , as amended, (10 U.S.C. 2631) and the Cargo Preference Act of  , as amended, (   ), and whether and how they can be used to ensure that   cargo is transported on  -built and flagged vessels, including a review of the existing waiver process and all current waivers to ensure they are consistent with the promotion of   domestic shipping;

(d) other available means that could further support the industry, including modifications of existing programs, establishment of new programs, and tax and regulatory relief; and

(e) in coordination with   and  , the costs and benefits of increased cargo preference rates, including on liquid cargo carriers, tankers, and military useful vessels, and options for increasing cargo preference compliance and directing open market procurement of shipping to meet urgent military needs for maritime vessels.

 . 13

.

Expand Mariner Training and  

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall deliver a report to the President through the APNSA for inclusion in the   with recommendations to address workforce challenges in the maritime sector through maritime educational institutions and workforce transitions.

(a) In preparing their report, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall consult, as needed, with industry stakeholders including private industry and labor organizations.

(b) The report shall:

(i) include the current number of credentialed mariners and estimate the additional credentialed mariners required to support the policies described in this order;

(ii) analyze the impact of establishing new and expanding existing merchant marine academies as a means of educating, training, and certifying the additional credentialed merchant mariners estimated under subsection (b)(i) of this section;

(iii) identify any requirements for credentialing mariners that are unnecessary, insufficient, or unduly burdensome and provide recommendations for reform;

(iv) inventory existing educational and technical training grants and scholarships to colleges and vocational-technical training institutions for critical shipbuilding specialties and other maritime studies, and provide recommendations for enhancement; and

(v) assess   credentialing program applicability to   sailors to increase opportunities for sailors to transfer into the Merchant Marine with validated skills.

(c) Consistent with the findings of the report and in conjunction with the formulation of the President's  , the Secretary of  , Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall deliver a legislative proposal to the APNSA and the OMB Director that:

(i) reflects the recommendations of the report required under this section;

(ii) establishes national maritime scholarships to send promising maritime experts abroad to learn cutting edge techniques and subjects, such as innovative maritime logistics, clean fuels and advanced nuclear energy, human-machine teaming, and additive manufacturing and other advanced technologies; and

(iii) offers scholarships to maritime experts from allied countries to teach at   institutions.

 . 14

.

Modernize the United States Merchant Marine Academy

. (a) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) within   of this order consistent with applicable law and available appropriations, take action to hire the necessary facilities staff and reprogram budgetary resources needed to execute urgent deferred maintenance projects and any other mission critical repair works at the  ;

(ii) take immediate action to finalize a long-term master facilities plan (LMFP) for the modernization of the   campus and submit such plan to the APNSA and OMB Director for concurrence; and

(iii) within   of the concurrence described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with  , submit a   capital improvement plan (CIP) consistent with the LMFP to the APNSA and OMB Director that includes capital project budgets, schedules, and sequencing, as well as an inventory of deferred maintenance items necessary to sustain campus operations through completion of the CIP.

(b) All actions taken pursuant to this section shall be detailed in the  .

 . 15

.

Improve Procurement Efficiency

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of   shall develop a proposal for improved acquisition strategies processes for   vessels and submit such proposal to APNSA and the   Director for inclusion in the  . The proposal shall:

(a) have as its objective providing   shipbuilders with market forecasting needed to justify investments in infrastructure, workforce, and intellectual property to meet   demand;

(b) include reforms recommended by the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   related to:

(i) staff structure and innovations in acquisition strategies that will improve Federal vessel procurement; and

(ii) reductions of the layers of approval needed to execute, build, and improve the vessel acquisition process, including by utilizing commercial acquisition and modular design practices that reduce complexity and prevent frequent changes to ship designs;

(c) identify for elimination excessive requirements, including the number of Government reviews and onerous regulations that add to ship design and acquisition delays; and

(d) consider use of broad industry standards and  -made readily available parts and components to drive up production volume while shrinking the iterative design process, which historically has led to delays and cost increases.

 . 16

.

Improve Government Efficiency

. Within   of the date of this order,   shall begin a separate review of   vessel procurement processes and deliver a proposal to the President, through the APNSA for inclusion in the  , to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of these processes.

 . 17

.

Increase the Fleet of Commercial Vessels Trading Internationally under the flag of  

. Within   of the date of this order, in conjunction with the formulation of the President's   and consistent with the findings of the report required under section 12 of this section, the Secretary of   shall in coordination with the Secretary of  , deliver a legislative proposal to the APNSA and OMB Director for inclusion in the   that:

(a) is designed to ensure that adequate cubed footage and gross tonnage of  -flagged commercial vessels can be called upon in times of crisis, while limiting the likelihood of Government waste;

(b) provides incentives that will:

(i) grow the fleet of   built, crewed, and flagged vessels that serve as readily deployable assets for national security purposes; and

(ii) increase the participation of   commercial vessels in international trade; and

(c) enhances existing subsidies to include coverage of certain construction or modification costs in a manner designed to enhance incentives for the commercial shipping industry to operate militarily useful ships that trade internationally under the flag of  .

 . 18

.

Ensure the Security and Leadership of Arctic Waterways

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   shall develop a strategy that identifies the vision, goals, and objectives necessary to secure arctic waterways and enable   prosperity in the face of evolving arctic security challenges and associated risks, and deliver it to the APNSA for inclusion in the  .

 . 19

.

Shipbuilding Review

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall conduct a review of shipbuilding for   use and submit a report to the President with recommendations to increase the number of participants and competitors within   shipbuilding, and to reduce cost overruns and production delays for surface, subsurface, and unmanned programs. This report must include separate itemized and prioritized lists of recommendations for  ,  , and   and shall be included in the  .

 . 20

.

Deregulatory Initiatives

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall conduct a review of their regulations, and implementation thereof, across all components pertaining to the domestic commercial maritime fleet and maritime port access to determine where each agency may be able to deregulate within the framework of Executive Order   (Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation), to reduce unnecessary costs and clear barriers to emerging technology and related efficiencies. Each agency will submit a report of its findings to the   Director and to the APNSA for inclusion in the  .

 . 21

.

Inactive Reserve Fleet

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall conduct a review and issue guidance on the funding, retention, support, and mobilization of a robust inactive reserve fleet. This review and guidance shall be delivered to the APNSA for inclusion in the  .

 . 22

.

Coordination

. Unless otherwise specified in this order, the plans, reports, reviews, and recommendations that are required to be submitted to the President by this order shall be developed through interagency coordination in accordance with   of   ( ), or its successors.

 . 23

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 24

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
