Executive Order  —Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  

, President of  , find that underlying conditions, including a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers, and   trading partners' economic policies that suppress domestic wages and consumption, as indicated by large and persistent     goods trade deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of  . That threat has its source in whole or substantial part outside   in the domestic economic policies of key trading partners and structural imbalances in the global trading system. I hereby declare a national emergency with respect to this threat.

On  , I signed   directing my Administration to investigate the causes of our country's large and persistent   trade deficits in goods, including the economic and national security implications and risks resulting from such deficits, and to undertake a review of, and identify, any unfair trade practices by other countries. On  , I signed a Presidential Memorandum entitled "Reciprocal Trade and Tariffs," that directed further review of our trading partners' non-reciprocal trading practices, and noted the relationship between non-reciprocal practices and the trade deficit. On  , I received the final results of those investigations, and I am taking action   based on those results.

Large and persistent     goods trade deficits have led to the hollowing out of our manufacturing base; inhibited our ability to scale advanced domestic manufacturing capacity; undermined critical supply chains; and rendered our defense-industrial base dependent on foreign adversaries. Large and persistent     goods trade deficits are caused in substantial part by a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade relationships. This situation is evidenced by disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers that make it harder for   manufacturers to sell their products in foreign markets. It is also evidenced by the economic policies of key   trading partners insofar as they suppress domestic wages and consumption, and thereby demand for   exports, while artificially increasing the competitiveness of their goods in global markets. These conditions have given rise to the national emergency that this order is intended to abate and resolve.

For   starting in  ,   trade policy has been organized around the principle of reciprocity. The   directed the President to secure reduced reciprocal tariff rates from key trading partners first through bilateral trade agreements and later under the auspices of the global trading system.  , the executive branch negotiated and signed 32 bilateral reciprocal trade agreements designed to lower tariff rates on a reciprocal basis. After  , participating countries engaged in eight rounds of negotiation, which resulted in   ( ) and seven subsequent tariff reduction rounds.

However, despite a commitment to the principle of reciprocity, the trading relationship between   and its trading partners has become highly unbalanced, particularly in  . The post-war international economic system was based upon three incorrect assumptions: first, that if   led the world in liberalizing tariff and non-tariff barriers the rest of the world would follow; second, that such liberalization would ultimately result in more economic convergence and increased domestic consumption among   trading partners converging towards the share in  ; and third, that as a result,   would not accrue large and persistent goods trade deficits.

This framework set in motion events, agreements, and commitments that did not result in reciprocity or generally increase domestic consumption in foreign economies relative to domestic consumption in  . Those events, in turn, created large and persistent     goods trade deficits as a feature of the global trading system.

Put simply, while   ( ) Members agreed to bind their tariff rates on a most-favored-nation ( ) basis, and thereby provide their best tariff rates to all   Members, they did not agree to bind their tariff rates at similarly low levels or to apply tariff rates on a reciprocal basis. Consequently, according to the  ,   has among the lowest simple average   tariff rates in the world at 3.3 percent, while many of our key trading partners like   (11.2 percent),   (7.5 percent),   ( ) (5 percent),   (17 percent), and   (9.4 percent) have simple average   tariff rates that are significantly higher.

Moreover, these average   tariff rates conceal much larger discrepancies across economies in tariff rates applied to particular products. For example,   imposes a 2.5 percent tariff on passenger vehicle imports (with internal combustion engines), while   (10 percent),   (70 percent), and   (15 percent) impose much higher duties on the same product. For network switches and routers,   imposes a 0 percent tariff, but for similar products,   (10 percent) levies a higher rate.   (18 percent) and   (30 percent) impose a higher tariff on ethanol than does   (2.5 percent). For rice in the husk, the   tariff is 2.7 percent (

ad  

equivalent), while   (80 percent),   (40 percent), and   (an average of 31 percent) impose higher rates. Apples enter   duty-free, but not so in   (60.3 percent) and   (50 percent).

Similarly, non-tariff barriers also deprive   manufacturers of reciprocal access to markets around the world.     ( ) details a great number of non-tariff barriers to   exports around the world on a trading-partner by trading-partner basis. These barriers include import barriers and licensing restrictions; customs barriers and shortcomings in trade facilitation; technical barriers to trade (e.g., unnecessarily trade restrictive standards, conformity assessment procedures, or technical regulations); sanitary and phytosanitary measures that unnecessarily restrict trade without furthering safety objectives; inadequate patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark regimes and inadequate enforcement of intellectual property rights; discriminatory licensing requirements or regulatory standards; barriers to cross-border data flows and discriminatory practices affecting trade in digital products; investment barriers; subsidies; anticompetitive practices; discrimination in favor of domestic state-owned enterprises, and failures by governments in protecting labor and environment standards; bribery; and corruption.

Moreover, non-tariff barriers include the domestic economic policies and practices of our trading partners, including currency practices and value-added taxes, and their associated market distortions, that suppress domestic consumption and boost exports to  . This lack of reciprocity is apparent in the fact that the share of consumption to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in   is about 68 percent, but it is much lower in others like   (27 percent),   (31 percent),   (39 percent),   (49 percent), and   (50 percent).

At the same time, efforts by   to address these imbalances have stalled. Trading partners have repeatedly blocked multilateral and plurilateral solutions, including in the context of new rounds of tariff negotiations and efforts to discipline non-tariff barriers. At the same time, with the   economy disproportionately open to imports,   trading partners have had few incentives to provide reciprocal treatment to   exports in the context of bilateral trade negotiations.

These structural asymmetries have driven the large and persistent     goods trade deficit. Even for countries with which   may enjoy an occasional bilateral trade surplus, the accumulation of tariff and non-tariff barriers on   exports may make that surplus smaller than it would have been without such barriers. Permitting these asymmetries to continue is not sustainable in  's economic and geopolitical environment because of the effect they have on   domestic production. A nation's ability to produce domestically is the bedrock of its national and economic security.

Both my first Administration in  , and   in  , recognized that increasing domestic manufacturing is critical to   national security. According to 2023   data,   manufacturing output as a share of global manufacturing output was 17.4 percent, down from a peak in   of 28.4 percent.

Over time, the persistent decline in   manufacturing output has reduced   manufacturing capacity. The need to maintain robust and resilient domestic manufacturing capacity is particularly acute in certain advanced industrial sectors like automobiles, shipbuilding, pharmaceuticals, technology products, machine tools, and basic and fabricated metals, because once competitors gain sufficient global market share in these sectors,   production could be permanently weakened. It is also critical to scale manufacturing capacity in the defense-industrial sector so that we can manufacture the defense materiel and equipment necessary to protect   interests at home and abroad.

In fact, because   has supplied so much military equipment to other countries,   stockpiles of military goods are too low to be compatible with   national defense interests. Furthermore,   defense companies must develop new, advanced manufacturing technologies across a range of critical sectors including bio-manufacturing, batteries, and microelectronics. If   wishes to maintain an effective security umbrella to defend its citizens and homeland, as well as for its allies and partners, it needs to have a large upstream manufacturing and goods-producing ecosystem to manufacture these products without undue reliance on imports for key inputs.

Increased reliance on foreign producers for goods also has compromised   economic security by rendering   supply chains vulnerable to geopolitical disruption and supply shocks. In  , the vulnerability of the   economy in this respect was exposed both during the   pandemic, when   had difficulty accessing essential products, as well as when the   rebels later began attacking cargo ships in the Middle East.

The decline of   manufacturing capacity threatens the   economy in other ways, including through the loss of manufacturing jobs. From  ,   lost around 5 million manufacturing jobs and experienced one of the largest drops in manufacturing employment in history. Furthermore, many manufacturing job losses were concentrated in specific geographical areas. In these areas, the loss of manufacturing jobs contributed to the decline in rates of family formation and to the rise of other social trends, like the abuse of opioids, that have imposed profound costs on the   economy.

The future of   competitiveness depends on reversing these trends.  , manufacturing represents just 11 percent of   gross domestic product, yet it accounts for 35 percent of   productivity growth and 60 percent of our exports. Importantly,   manufacturing is the main engine of innovation in  , responsible for 55 percent of all patents and 70 percent of all research and development (R&D) spending. The fact that R&D expenditures by   multinational enterprises in   grew at an average rate of 13.6 percent    , while their R&D expenditures in   grew by an average of just 5 percent per year during the same time period, is evidence of the strong link between manufacturing and innovation. Furthermore, every manufacturing job spurs 7 to 12 new jobs in other related industries, helping to build and sustain our economy.

Just as a nation that does not produce manufactured products cannot maintain the industrial base it needs for national security, neither can a nation long survive if it cannot produce its own food. Presidential Policy Directive 21 of   (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience), designates food and agriculture as a "critical infrastructure sector" because it is one of the sectors considered "so vital to   that [its] incapacity or destruction . . . would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters." Furthermore, when I left office,   had a trade surplus in agricultural products, but  , that surplus has vanished. Eviscerated by a slew of new non-tariff barriers imposed by our trading partners, it has been replaced by a projected $49 billion   agricultural trade deficit.

For these reasons, I hereby declare and order:

Section 1

.

National Emergency

. As President of  , my highest duty is ensuring the national and economic security of the country and its citizens.

I have declared a national emergency arising from conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, which have grown by over 40 percent in   alone, reaching $1.2 trillion in  . This trade deficit reflects asymmetries in trade relationships that have contributed to the atrophy of domestic production capacity, especially that of the   manufacturing and defense-industrial base. These asymmetries also impact   producers' ability to export and, consequentially, their incentive to produce.

Specifically, such asymmetry includes not only non-reciprocal differences in tariff rates among foreign trading partners, but also extensive use of non-tariff barriers by foreign trading partners, which reduce the competitiveness of   exports while artificially enhancing the competitiveness of their own goods. These non-tariff barriers include technical barriers to trade; non-scientific sanitary and phytosanitary rules; inadequate intellectual property protections; suppressed domestic consumption (e.g., wage suppression); weak labor, environmental, and other regulatory standards and protections; and corruption. These non-tariff barriers give rise to significant imbalances even when   and a trading partner have comparable tariff rates.

The cumulative effect of these imbalances has been the transfer of resources from domestic producers to foreign firms, reducing opportunities for domestic manufacturers to expand and, in turn, leading to lost manufacturing jobs, diminished manufacturing capacity, and an atrophied industrial base, including in the defense-industrial sector. At the same time, foreign firms are better positioned to scale production, reinvest in innovation, and compete in the global economy, to the detriment of   economic and national security.

The absence of sufficient domestic manufacturing capacity in certain critical and advanced industrial sectors—another outcome of the large and persistent     goods trade deficits—also compromises   economic and national security by rendering the   economy less resilient to supply chain disruption. Finally, the large, persistent annual   goods trade deficits, and the concomitant loss of industrial capacity, have compromised military readiness; this vulnerability can only be redressed through swift corrective action to rebalance the flow of imports into  . Such impact upon military readiness and our national security posture is especially acute with the recent rise in armed conflicts abroad. I call upon the public and private sector to make the efforts necessary to strengthen the international economic position of  .

 . 2

.

Reciprocal Tariff Policy

. It is the policy of   to rebalance global trade flows by imposing an additional

ad  

duty on all imports from all trading partners except as otherwise provided herein. The additional

ad  

duty on all imports from all trading partners shall start at 10 percent and shortly thereafter, the additional

ad  

duty shall increase for trading partners enumerated in   I to this order at the rates set forth in   I to this order. These additional

ad  

duties shall apply until such time as I determine that the underlying conditions described above are satisfied, resolved, or mitigated.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this order, all articles imported into the customs territory of   shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional

ad  

rate of duty of 10 percent. Such rates of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , except that goods loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the final mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , and entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , shall not be subject to such additional duty.

Furthermore, except as otherwise provided in this order, at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , all articles from trading partners enumerated in   I to this order imported into the customs territory of   shall be, consistent with law, subject to the country-specific

ad  

rates of duty specified in   I to this order. Such rates of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , except that goods loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the final mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , and entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , shall not be subject to these country-specific

ad  

rates of duty set forth in   I to this order. These country-specific

ad  

rates of duty shall apply to all articles imported pursuant to the terms of all existing   trade agreements, except as provided below.

(b) The following goods as set forth in Annex II to this order, consistent with law, shall not be subject to the

ad  

rates of duty under this order: (i) all articles that are encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b); (ii) all articles and derivatives of steel and aluminum subject to the duties imposed pursuant to section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of   and proclaimed in   (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into  ), as amended, Proclamation 9705 of   (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), as amended, and Proclamation 9980 of   (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel Articles Into  ), as amended,   of   (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into  ), and   of   (Adjusting Imports of Steel into  ); (iii) all automobiles and automotive parts subject to the additional duties imposed pursuant to section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended, and proclaimed in   (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into  ); (iv) other products enumerated in Annex II to this order, including copper, pharmaceuticals, semiconductors, lumber articles, certain critical minerals, and energy and energy products; (v) all articles from a trading partner subject to the rates set forth in Column 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS); and (vi) all articles that may become subject to duties pursuant to future actions under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  .

(c) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, taxes, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles, except as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of this section below.

(d) With respect to articles from  , I have imposed additional duties on certain goods to address a national emergency resulting from the flow of illicit drugs across our northern border pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), as amended by Executive Order   of   (Progress on the Situation at Our Northern Border), and Executive Order  Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border). With respect to articles from  , I have imposed additional duties on certain goods to address a national emergency resulting from the flow of illicit drugs and illegal migration across our southern border pursuant to Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), as amended by Executive Order  Progress on the Situation at Our Southern Border), and Executive Order   of   (Amendment to Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border). As a result of these border emergency tariff actions, all goods of   or   under the terms of general note 11 to the  , including any treatment set forth in subchapter XXIII of chapter 98 and subchapter   of chapter 99 of the  , as related to the Agreement between  ,  , and   ( ), continue to be eligible to enter the   market under these preferential terms. However, all goods of   or   that do not qualify as originating under   are presently subject to additional

ad  

duties of 25 percent, with energy or energy resources and potash imported from   and not qualifying as originating under   presently subject to the lower additional

ad  

duty of 10 percent.

(e) Any

ad  

rate of duty on articles imported from   or   under the terms of this order shall not apply in addition to the

ad  

rate of duty specified by the existing orders described in subsection (d) of this section. If such orders identified in subsection (d) of this section are terminated or suspended, all items of   and   that qualify as originating under   shall not be subject to an additional

ad  

rate of duty, while articles not qualifying as originating under   shall be subject to an

ad  

rate of duty of 12 percent. However, these

ad  

rates of duty on articles imported from   and   shall not apply to energy or energy resources, to potash, or to an article eligible for duty-free treatment under   that is a part or component of an article substantially finished in  .

(f) More generally, the

ad  

rates of duty set forth in this order shall apply only to the   content of a subject article, provided at least 20 percent of the value of the subject article is   originating. For the purposes of this subsection, "  content" refers to the value of an article attributable to the components produced entirely, or substantially transformed in,  .   ( ), to the extent permitted by law, is authorized to require the collection of such information and documentation regarding an imported article, including with the entry filing, as is necessary to enable   to ascertain and verify the value of the   content of the article, as well as to ascertain and verify whether an article is substantially finished in  .

(g) Subject articles, except those eligible for admission under "domestic status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duty specified in section 2 of this order and are admitted into a foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  , must be admitted as "privileged foreign status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.

(h) Duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(A)-(B) shall remain available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section. Duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall remain available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section until notification by the Secretary of   to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and collect duty revenue applicable pursuant to this subsection for articles otherwise eligible for

de minimis

treatment. After such notification, duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section.

(i) The Executive Order of   (Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in   as Applied to Low-Value Imports), regarding low-value imports from   is not affected by this order, and all duties and fees with respect to covered articles shall be collected as required and detailed therein.

(j) To reduce the risk of transshipment and evasion, all

ad  

rates of duty imposed by this order or any successor orders with respect to articles of   shall apply equally to articles of both   and  .

(k) In order to establish the duty rates described in this order, the   is modified as set forth in the   to this order. These modifications shall enter into effect on the dates set forth in the   to this order.

(l) Unless specifically noted herein, any prior  , Executive Order, or other Presidential directive or guidance related to trade with foreign trading partners that is inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated, suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to this order.

 . 4

.

Modification Authority

. (a) The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for  , shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary, if this action is not effective in resolving the emergency conditions described above, including the increase in the overall trade deficit or the recent expansion of non-reciprocal trade arrangements by   trading partners in a manner that threatens the economic and national security interests of  .

(b) Should any trading partner retaliate against   in response to this action through import duties on   exports or other measures, I may further modify the   to increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action.

(c) Should any trading partner take significant steps to remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with   on economic and national security matters, I may further modify the   to decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this order.

(d) Should   manufacturing capacity and output continue to worsen, I may further modify the   to increase duties under this order.

 . 5

.

Implementation Authority

. The Secretary of   and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Chair of the International Trade Commission are hereby authorized to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement this order.

 . 6

.

Reporting Requirements

.  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for  , is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the   on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the   (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of   (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

ANNEX I

Country

Reciprocal Tariff,  

 

30%

 

32%

 

37%

 

35%

 

37%

 

24%

 

49%

Cameroon

11%

 

13%

 

34%

Côte d`Ivoire

21%

Democratic Republic of the Congo

11%

 

13%

European Union

20%

Falkland Islands

41%

 

32%

 

38%

 

26%

 

32%

 

39%

 

17%

 

24%

 

20%

 

27%

 

48%

 

50%

 

31%

 

37%

 

47%

 

17%

 

24%

 

40%

 

31%

Mozambique

16%

 )

44%

 

21%

 

30%

 

18%

Nigeria

14%

North Macedonia

33%

 

15%

 

29%

 

17%

Serbia

37%

 

30%

 

25%

 

44%

 

31%

 

41%

 

32%

 

36%

 

28%

Vanuatu

22%

 

15%

 

46%

 

17%

 

18%

ANNEX II

Note: All products that are classified in the 8-digit subheadings of   of   (HTSUS) that are listed in this   are covered by the action. The product descriptions that are contained in this   are provided for informational purposes only, and are not intended to delimit in any way the scope of the action. In all cases, the formal language in Annex III governs the tariff treatment of products covered by the action. Any questions regarding the scope of particular   subheadings should be referred to  . In the product descriptions, the abbreviation "nesoi" means "not elsewhere specified or included".

HTSUS

Description

05080000

Coral, shells, cuttlebone and similar materials, unworked or simply prepared, but not cut to shape; powder and waste thereof

 

Natural graphite, in powder or flakes (other than crystalline flake)

25049000

Natural graphite, other than in powder or in flakes

25101000

Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum calcium phosphates, unground

25102000

Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum

 

Natural barium sulfate (barytes), ground

 

Natural barium sulfate (barytes), not ground

25191000

Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite)

 

Fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered)  , whether or not cont. small quant. of other oxides added before sintering

 

  calcined magnesite

25249000

Asbestos other than Crocidolite

25292100

Fluorspar, containing by weight 97 percent or less of calcium fluoride

25292200

Fluorspar, containing by weight more than 97 percent of calcium fluoride

 

Kieserite

 

  salts (natural magnesium sulfates)

 

Natural cryolite; natural chiolite

 

Natural micaceous iron oxides

 

Other mineral substances, not elsewhere specified or included

26020000

  ores and concentrates including ferruginous manganese ores & concentrates, with manganese content over 20%, calculated on dry weight

26030000

Copper ores and concentrates

 

Cobalt ores and concentrates

26060000

Aluminum ores and concentrates

26080000

Zinc ores and concentrates

26100000

Chromium ores and concentrates

 

Tungsten ores

 

Tungsten concentrates

 

Uranium ores and concentrates

 

Synthetic rutile

 

Titanium ores and concentrates, other than synthetic rutile

 

Synthetic tantalum-niobium concentrates

 

Niobium, tantalum or vanadium ores and concentrates, nesoi

26161000

Silver ores and concentrates

26171000

Antimony ores and concentrates

26203000

Ash and residues (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel), containing mainly copper

 

Slag (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel), containing by weight over 40% titanium, and which if containing over 2% by weight of copper, lead, or zinc is not to be treated for the recovery thereof

27011100

Coal, anthracite, whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated

27011200

Coal, bituminous, whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated

 

Coal, other than anthracite or bituminous, whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated

 

Coal, briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels manufactured from coal

27021000

Lignite (excluding jet), whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated

 

Lignite (excluding jet), agglomerated

27030000

Peat (including peat litter), whether or not agglomerated

27040000

  and semicoke of coal, lignite or peat, whether or not agglomerated; retort carbon

27050000

Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and similar gases, other than petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons

 

Tars (including reconstituted tars), distilled from coal, lignite or peat, and other mineral tars, whether dehydrated or partially distilled

27071000

Benzene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

27072000

Toluene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

27073000

Xylenes, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

27074000

Naphthalene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

27075000

Aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures (from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents), other than  ,  , Xylenes, and  , in which 65% or more by volume (including losses) distills at 250 C by the   method (equivalent to the   D 86 method)

27079100

Creosote oils, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

 

Light oil, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

 

 , from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents

 

Carbazole, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents, having a purity of 65% or more by weight

 

Phenols, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in which the weight of aromatic constituents exceeds that of nonaromatic constituents, containing more than 50% by weight of hydroxybenzene

 

Metacresol, orthocresol, paracresol, and metaparacresol, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products where the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents, having a purity of 75% or more by weight

 

Phenols, nesoi

 

Other products of the distillation of high-temperature coal tar and similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceed that of the nonaromatic constituents, nesoi

 

 , obtained from coal tar or other mineral tars

27082000

Pitch coke, obtained from coal tar or other mineral tars

 

Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, crude, testing under 25 degrees A.P.I.

 

Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, crude, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or more

27101215

Light oil motor fuel from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals (other than crude) and containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils from bituminous minerals

 

Light oil motor fuel blending stock from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals (other than crude) containing by weight 70% or more from petroleum oils or oils from bituminous minerals

 

Naphthas (except motor fuel or motor fuel blending stock)

 

Light oil mixtures of hydrocarbons nesoi which contain by weight not over 50% of any single hydrocarbon compound

 

Light oils and preparations, from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals or preparations nesoi containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), derived from petroleum or oils from bituminous minerals, testing < 25 degrees A.P.I.

27101911

Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), derived from petroleum oils or oils from bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or >

 

 -type jet fuel, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Kerosene motor fuel (except  -type jet fuel), from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

27101925

  motor fuel blending stock (except  -type jet fuel), from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

  (except  -type jet fuel, kerosene motor fuel, and   fuel blending stock), from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Lubricating oils, with or without additives, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Lubricating greases, containing not over 10% by weight of salts of fatty acids of animal or vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Lubricating greases, containing 10% or more by weight of salts of fatty acids of animal or vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Mixture of hydrocarbons nesoi, which contain by weight not over 50% of any single hydrocarbon compound, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals or preparations nesoi containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

 

Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), testing under 25 degrees A.P.I., from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations nesoi containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals, containing biodiesel, other than waste oils

 

Dist and resid fuel oil (including blends) derived from petro or oils fr bitum min testing 25 degree A.P.I. or >, contng biodiesel

 

 -type jet fuel/mtr ful/mtr ful blend   bitumin min (o/th crude), or preps. 70%+ by w fr pet oils, ctg biodiesel

 

  (ex jet fuel,mtr ful/mtr ful blend  /jet), fr pet oils and bitumin. min (o/th crude) or preps 70%+ by wt fr pet oils, ctg biodie

 

Waste oils from petro oils/bitum minerals/preps 70%+ by  . fr.   oils/bitum minerals containing PCBs, PCTs or PBBs

27109905

Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil (including blends) derived from petroleum oil/bituminous minerals, testing under 25 degree A.P.I.

27109910

Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil (including blends) derived from petroleum oil/bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or >

 

Waste motor fuel or motor fuel blending stock from petro oils and bitumin. minerals (o/than crude) or preps. 70%+ by  . from   oils

 

Waste kerosene or naphthas from petro oils and bitumin minerals (o/than crude) or preps. 70%+ by wt. From petro oils/bitumin minerals

27109931

Waste lubricating oils, w/or w/o additives, from petro oils and bitumin minerals (o/than crude) or preps. 70%+ by  . from   oils

 

Waste lubricating greases from petro oil/bitum min/70%+ by  . fr petro oils but n/o 10% by wt. of fatty acid salts animal/vegetable origin

 

Waste lubricating greases from petro oil/bitum min/70%+ by  . fr petro oils but over 10% by wt. of fatty acid salts animal/vegetable origin

 

Waste mixtures of hydrocarbons from   bitum. min. or preps.70%+ by  . fr. petro oils, nesoi, n/o 50% any single hydrocarbon

 

Waste petroleum oils & oils from bitum. min. or preps nesoi 70%+ by  . from  . oils or bitum. min., nesoi

27111100

Natural gas, liquefied

27111200

Propane, liquefied

27111300

Butanes, liquefied

27111400

Ethylene, propylene, butylene and butadiene, liquefied

27111900

Liquefied petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons, nesoi

27112100

Natural gas, in gaseous state

27112900

Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons, except natural gas

27121000

Petroleum jelly

 

Paraffin wax (whether or not colored), obtained by synthesis or other process and less than 0.75% oil by wt.

 

  wax (whether or not colored), obtained by synthesis or other process

 

Mineral waxes (i.e.,paraffin w/0.75%+ oil, microcrystall. wax,   peat waxes, ozokerite), obtained by synthesis

27131100

 , petroleum, not calcined

27131200

 , petroleum coke, calcined

27132000

Petroleum bitumen

27139000

Residues (except petroleum coke or petroleum bitumen) of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous materials

27141000

Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands

 

Bitumen and asphalt, natural; asphaltites and asphaltic rocks

27150000

Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, natural bitumen, petroleum bitumen, mineral tar or mineral tar pitch

27160000

Electrical energy

28012000

Iodine

28042900

Rare gases, other than argon

28045000

 ; tellurium

 

  containing by weight not less than 99.99 percent of silicon

 

Arsenic

28049000

Selenium

 

Strontium

28051920

Barium

 

Alkali metals, other than sodium

28053000

Rare-earth metals, scandium and yttrium, whether or not intermixed or interalloyed

28111100

  fluoride (Hydrofluoric acid)

 

Arsenic acid

 

Arsenic trioxide

 

Selenium dioxide

 

Other chlorides and chloride oxides

 

Arsenic sulfides

28152000

Potassium hydroxide (  potash)

28161000

Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium

 

 , hydroxides and peroxides of strontium

 

 , hydroxides and peroxides of barium

28170000

Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide

 

Artificial corundum, crude

28181020

Artificial corundum, in grains, or ground, pulverized or refined

28182000

Aluminum oxide, other than artificial corundum

28183000

Aluminum hydroxide

 

  dioxide

28211000

Iron oxides and hydroxides

28212000

Earth colors containing 70 percent or more by weight of combined iron evaluated as Fe2O3

 

Cobalt oxides and hydroxides; commercial cobalt oxides

28230000

Titanium oxides

 

Lithium oxide and hydroxide

 

Copper hydroxides

28256000

Germanium oxides and zirconium dioxide

28258000

Antimony oxides

 

Niobium oxide

 

Tungsten oxides

 

Other inorganic bases; other metal oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, nesoi

 

Fluorides of aluminum

28263000

Sodium hexafluoroaluminate (Synthetic cryolite)

 

Other complex fluorine salts, nesoi

 

Magnesium chloride

 

Barium chloride

 

Cobalt chlorides

 

Chlorides, nesoi

28274100

Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides of copper

 

  oxides and chloride hydroxides other than of copper or of vanadium

 

Other bromides and bromide oxides, other than ammonium, calcium or zinc

28276010

Iodide and iodide oxide of calcium or copper

 

Iodides and iodide oxides, other than of calcium, copper or potassium

28332100

Magnesium sulfate

28332500

Copper sulfate

 

Barium sulfate

 

Cobalt sulfate

 

Zinc sulfate

 

Other sulfates nesoi

28342100

Potassium nitrate

 

Strontium nitrate

 

Nitrates, nesoi

28366000

Barium carbonate

28369100

Lithium carbonates

 

Strontium carbonate

 

Cobalt carbonates

 

Carbonates nesoi, and peroxocarbonates (percarbonates)

28418000

Tungstates (wolframates)

 

Ammonium perrhenate

 

Aluminates

28432901

Silver compounds, other than silver nitrate

28433000

Gold compounds

28439000

Inorganic or organic compounds of precious metals, excluding those of silver and gold; amalgams of precious metals

 

Natural uranium metal

 

Natural uranium compounds

28442000

Uranium enriched in U235 and plutonium and their compounds; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products and mixtures containing these products

 

Compounds of uranium depleted in  

Uranium depleted in  , thorium; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products and mixtures of these products and their compounds

28444300

Other radioactive elements, isotopes, compounds, nesoi; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products and mixtures thereof

 

Isotopes not in heading   and their compounds other than boron, lithium and helium

28461000

Cerium compounds

 

Mixtures of rare-earth oxides or of rare-earth chlorides

 

Yttrium materials and compounds containing by wt. >19% But < 85% yttrium oxide equivalent

 

Compounds, inorganic or organic, of rare-earth metals, of yttrium or of scandium, or of mixtures of these metals, nesoi

 

  carbide, crude

 

  carbide, in grains, or ground, pulverized or refined

 

Tungsten carbide

 

Phosphor copper containing more than 15% by weight of phosphorus, excluding ferrosphosphorus

 

Other phosphides, excl ferrophosphorous, nesoi

 

1,2,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a) and 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134)

 

Other unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons

 

Other brominated or iodinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons

29037800

Other perhalogenated acyclic hydrocarbon derivatives, nesoi

 

Other halogenated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons containing two or more different halogens, nesoi

 

Halogenated products derived in whole or in part from benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbon, described in additional   note 3 to  . VI

 

Halogenated derivatives derived in whole or in part from benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbon, nesoi

 

Other halogenated derivatives of cyclanic etc hydrocarbons not deriv from benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbons

29039200

  ( ) and   (clofenatone ( ), (1,1,1-Trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane))

 

Sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of aromatic products described in additional   note 3 to section 6

29052990

Unsaturated monohydric alcohols, other than allyl alcohol or acyclic terpene alcohols

 

Dihydric alcohols (diols), nesoi

 

Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of monohydric alcohols

 

Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of acyclic alcohols, nesoi

 

Other cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives

 

Other aromatic alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives

 

Other polyphenols, nesoi

 

Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of phenol or phenol-alcohols

 

Ethers of acyc monohydric alcohols & deriv, nesoi

29092000

Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic ethers and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives

 

Other aromatic ethers and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, or nitrosated derivatives, nesoi

 

Other aromatic ether-alcohols, their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives described in add.   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic ether-alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives, nesoi

29094920

  glycerol ethers

 

Other non-aromatic ether-alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives

 

Odoriferous or flavoring compounds of ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols & their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, nitrosated derivatives

29095045

Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols & their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, nitrosated derivatives nesoi, in add.   note 3 to  . VI

 

Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives, nesoi

 

Acyclic aldehydes without other oxygen function, nesoi

 

Other aromatic aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers, aldehyde-phenols and aldehydes with other oxygen function

 

  ketones without other oxygen function, nesoi

 

  ketone-alcohols and ketone-aldehydes, nesoi

 

Aromatic ketone-phenols and ketones with other oxygen function

 

  ketone-phenols and ketones with other oxygen function

 

Coenzyme Q10 (ubidecarenone ( )

29146921

Quinone drugs

 

Quinones, nesoi

 

Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, etc derivatives of aromatic ketones and quinones whether or not with other oxygen function

 

Cobalt acetates

 

Aromatic esters of acetic acid described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic esters of acetic acid, nesoi

 

Acetates of polyhydric alcohols or of polyhydric alcohol ethers

 

Other non-aromatic esters of acetic acid

 

Fatty acids of animal or vegetable origin, nesoi

29159014

Valproic acid

 

Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi

 

Aromatic anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, and their derivatives, nesoi

 

  anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi

 

Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acid anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives

 

Benzoic acid esters, nesoi

29163946

Aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and derivatives described in add'l   note 3 to section VI

 

Other aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives

29171300

  acid, sebacic acid, their salts and esters

 

Ferrous fumarate

 

  polycarboxylic acids and derivative (excluding plasticizers)

 

Esters of orthophthalic acid, nesoi

29173930

Aromatic polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives nesoi, in add.   note 3 to  . VI

 

Salts and esters of lactic acid

 

Salts and esters of tartaric acid, nesoi

 

Salts and esters of gluconic acid

 

Malic acid

 

  carboxylic acids with alcohol function, without other oxygen function, and their derivatives, nesoi

 

O-Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin)

 

Salts and esters Of O-acetylsalicylic acid

 

Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, nesoi

 

Gentisic acid; and hydroxycinnamic acid and its salts

 

Carboxylic acids with phenol function but w/o other oxygen function, described in add'l.   note 3 to section VI

 

Other carboxylic acids w/phenol function but w/o other oxygen function & their derivatives (excluding goods of add.   note 3 to section VI)

 

Aromatic carboxylic acids w/aldehyde or ketone function but w/o other oxygen function & their deriv desc. in add   note 3 to sec VI, nesoi

 

Aromatic carboxylic acids with aldehyde or ketone function, but without other oxygen function, and derivatives, nesoi

 

Non-aromatic carboxylic acids w/aldehyde or ketone function but w/o other oxygen func. their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, etc derivatives

 

Aromatic drugs derived from carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function, and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Aromatic carboxylic acids with add'l oxygen function and their anhydrides, halide, etc deriv described in add   note 3 to sect VI, nesoi

 

Other aromatic carboxylic acids with add'l oxygen function and their anhydrides, halide, etc deriv (exclud goods in add   note 3 to   VI)

 

  carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function, and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Aromatic phosphoric esters and their salts, including lactophosphates, and their derivatives, not used as plasticizers

 

  phosphoric esters and their salts, including lactophosphates, and their derivatives

 

  esters of inorganic acids of nonmetals and their salts and derivatives, excluding esters of hydrogen halides, nesoi

29211911

Mono- and triethylamines; mono-, di-, and   and butyl-) monoamines; salts of any of the foregoing

29211961

N,N-Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, N-Propyl or Isopropyl)-2-Chloroethylamines and their protonated salts; Acylcic monoamines and their derivatives, nesoi

29212900

  polyamines, their derivatives and salts, other than ethylenediamine or hexamethylenediamine and their salts

 

Cyclanic, cyclenic, cycloterpenic mono- or polyamines, derivatives and salts, from any aromatic compound desc in add   note 3,  . VI

 

 , cyclenic or cycloterpenic mono- or polyamines, and their derivatives and salts, from any nonaromatic compounds

 

Other aniline derivatives and their salts

29214600

Amfetamine ( ), benzfetamine ( ), dexamfetamine ( ), etilamfetamine ( ), and other specified INNs; salts thereof

 

Aromatic monoamine antidepressants, tranquilizers and other psychotherapeutic agents, nesoi

 

Aromatic monoamine drugs, nesoi

 

Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives nesoi; salts thereof, described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives and salts thereof, nesoi

 

Aromatic polyamines and their derivatives; salts thereof nesoi

29221100

Monoethanolamine and its salts

 

  ( ) and its salts

 

Aromatic amino-alcohols drugs, their ethers and esters, other than those containing > one kind of oxygen function; salts thereof; nesoi

 

4,4'-Bis(dimethylamino)benzhydrol ( 's hydrol) and other specified aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers and esters; salts thereof

 

N1-(2-Hydroxyethyl-2-nitro-1,4-phenylendiamine;  -tris(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-nitro-1,4-phenylenediamine; and other specified chemicals

 

Aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers and esters, other than those containing more than one oxy func described in add.   note 3 to sect VI

 

Other aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers & esters, other than those contain more than one oxy func (exc goods of add.   note 3 sect VI)

 

Salts of triethanolamine

 

Amino-alcohols, other than those containing more than one kind of oxygen function, their ethers and esters and salts thereof, nesoi

 

Drugs of amino-naphthols and -phenols, their ethers and esters, except those cont. more than one oxygen function; salts thereof, nesoi

 

Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols and their derivatives of products described in add'l   note 3 to section VI

 

 -naphthols and other amino-phenols; their ethers, esters & salts (not containing more than one oxygen function) thereof nesoi

29223100

Amfepramone ( ), methadone ( ) and normethadone ( ); salts thereof

 

Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more than one oxygen function; salts; desc in add   note 3 sec VI

 

Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more than one oxygen function; salts thereof; nesoi

 

  amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more than one kind of oxygen function, salts thereof; nesoi

 

  and its esters and salts thereof

29224250

Glutamic acid and its salts, other than monosodium glutamate

29224400

Tildine ( ) and its salts

 

m-Aminobenzoic acid, technical; and other specified aromatic amino-acids and their esters, except those with more than one oxygen function

 

Aromatic amino-acids drugs and their esters, not containing more than one kind of oxygen function, nesoi

 

Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, excl. those with more than one oxygen function; salts; described in add.   note 3 to sect VI

 

Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, not contng more than 1 kind of oxygen function (excluding goods in add   note 3 to  ), nesoi

 

  amino-acids, other than those containing more than one kind of oxygen function, other than glycine

 

Non-aromatic esters of amino-acids, other than those containing more than one kind of oxygen function; salts thereof

 

3,4-Diaminophenetole dihydrogen sulfate; 2-nitro-5-[(2,3-dihydroxy)propoxy]-N-methylaniline; and other specified aromatic chemicals

 

Specified aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other aminocompounds with oxygen function

 

Salts of d(underscored)-(-)-p-Hydroxyphenylglycine

29225013

Isoetharine hydrochloride and other specified aromatic drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen function

 

Other aromatic cardiovascular drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen function

 

Aromatic dermatological agents and local anesthetics of amino-compounds with oxygen function

 

Aromatic drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen function, nesoi

 

Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-compounds with oxygen function described in add.   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-compounds with oxygen function, nesoi

 

  amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other aminocompounds with oxygen function

29231000

Choline and its salts

 

Lecithins and other phosphoaminolipids, nesoi

 

  ammonium salts and hydroxides, whether or not chemically defined, nesoi

 

Meprobamate ( )

29241911

Acyclic amides (including acyclic carbamates)

 

  amide derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

 

Aromatic ureines and their derivatives pesticides, nesoi

 

  ureines and their derivatives; and salts thereof

 

Acetanilide; N-acetylsulfanilyl chloride; aspartame; and 2-methoxy-5-acetamino-N,N-bis(2-acetoxyethyl)aniline

 

Other aromatic cyclic amides and derivatives for use as drugs

 

Aromatic cyclic amides and their derivatives of products described in additional   note 3 to section VI, nesoi

29242977

Aromatic cyclic amides (incl cyclic carbamates) and their derivatives and salts thereof, nesoi

 

Other nonaromatic cyclic amides and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

 

Glutethimide ( )

 

Other aromatic imides and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

 

Other non-aromatic imides and their derivatives

 

Chlordimeform ( )

 

Aromatic drugs of imines and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Aromatic imines and their derivatives; salts thereof (excluding drugs); nesoi

 

Non-aromatic imines and their derivatives; salts thereof

 

Fenproporex ( ) and its salts

29264000

alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile

 

p-Chlorobenzonitrile and verapamil hydrochloride

 

Aromatic nitrile-function compounds, nesoi, described in additional   note 3 to section VI

29269048

Aromatic nitrile-function compounds other than those products in additional   note 3 to section VI, nesoi

 

Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi, described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Other diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine

 

  drugs of organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine, other than Methyl ethyl ketoxime

 

  organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine, nesoi

 

Aromatic compounds with other nitrogen function, nesoi

 

  compounds with other nitrogen functions, except isocyanates

 

Aromatic compounds of thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates, excluding pesticides

 

Other non-aromatic thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates

 

Thiuram mono-, di- or tetrasulfides, other than tetramethylthiuram monosulfide

 

Other aromatic organo-sulfur compounds (excluding pesticides)

 

  organo-sulfur acids, nesoi

 

Other non-aromatic organo-sulfur compounds

 

Other non-halogenated organo-phosphorous derivatives

29315300

O-(3-chloropropyl) O-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methylphosphonothionate

 

Drugs of aromatic organo-inorganic compounds

 

Other non-aromatic organo-inorganic compounds

 

Sucralose

 

  compounds containing an unfused furan ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the ring

 

Aromatic drugs of lactones

 

Aromatic lactones, nesoi, described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

  lactones

 

Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only described in additional   note 3 to section VI, nesoi

 

Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi

 

  heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi

 

Phenazone (Antipyrine) and its derivatives

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only containing an unfused pyrazole ring

 

  drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only containing an unfused pyrazole ring

 

Other compound (excluding aromatic, modified aromatic & drugs) containing unfused pyrazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) in the structure

29332100

Hydantoin and its derivatives

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only cont. an unfused imidazole ring

 

Aromatic or mod. aromatic goods in add   note 3 to sect   containing an unfused imidazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) in structure

 

Aromatic or mod aromatic goods contng unfused imidazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) in the structure (exc prod in add   note 3 sec VI)

29332945

  drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, containing an unfused imidazole ring, nesoi

 

Other compounds (excluding drugs, aromatic and modified aromatic compounds) containing an unfused imidazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated)

 

  ( ), anileridine ( ), bezitramide ( ), bromazepam ( ), difenoxin ( ), and other specified INNs; salts thereof

 

Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an unfused pyrazole ring

29333500

3-Quinuclidinol

29333700

N-Phenethyl-4-piperidone ( )

 

1-(3-Sulfapropyl)pryidinium hydroxide;  ,N-bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl)-1,6-hexanediamine; and 5 other specified chemicals

 

Collidines, lutidines and picolines

 

p-Chloro-2-benzylpyridine & other specified heterocyclic compounds,  ) only cont. an unfused pyridine ring

 

Fungicides of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, containing an unfused pyridine ring

 

o-Paraquat dichloride

 

Herbicides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, containing an unfused pyridine ring

 

Pesticides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, containing an unfused pyridine ring

29333931

Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, containing an unfused pyridine ring, nesoi

 

Drugs containing an unfused pyridine ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure, nesoi

 

  compounds with  ) only containing an unfused pyridine ring, described in add.   note 3 to  . VI

 

  compounds with  ) only containing an unfused pyridine ring, nesoi

29334100

  ( ) and its salts

 

4,7-Dichloroquinoline

 

  (1,2-Dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline)

 

8-Methylquinoline and  

29334917

 -quinoline carboxylate

29334920

5-Chloro-7-iodo-8-quinolinol ( );  ; Diiodohydroxyquin; and   sulfate

 

Drugs containing a quinoline or isoquinoline ring-system (whether or not hydrogenated) not further fused, nesoi

 

Pesticides of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only,  . a quinoline or isoquinoline ring-system, not further fused

 

Products described in add.   note 3 to   VI containing quinoline or isoquinoline ring-system (whether or n/hydrogenated), n/further fused

 

  compounds with  ) only, containing a quinoline ring-system, not further fused, nesoi

 

Malonylurea (barbituric acid)

 

Salts of barbituric acid

 

Allobarbital ( ), amobarbital ( ), barbital ( ), butalbital ( ), butobarbital, and other specified INNs; salts thereof

 

Other derivatives of malonylurea (barbituric acid); salts thereof

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only,  . a pyrimidine or piperazine ring

 

Aromatic or mod. aromatic pesticides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only  .   or piperazine ring

 

  pesticides of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only,  .   or piperazine ring, nesoi

29335921

Antihistamines, including those principally used as antinauseants

 

Nicarbazin and trimethoprim

 

Anti-infective agents nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only,  .  , piperazine ring

29335946

Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only,  .   or piperazine ring, nesoi

 

Other aromatic or modified aromatic drugs containing a pyrimidine ring (whether or not hydrogenated) or piperazine ring in the structure

 

  drugs of heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with  ) only,  . a pyrimidine or piperazine ring

 

Aromatic heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with  ) only,  .   or piperazine ring, in add.   note 3,  . VI

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with  ) only,  .   or piperazine ring

 

2-Amino-4-chloro-6-methoxypyrimidine; 2-amino-4,6-dimethoxypyrimidine; and 6-methyluracil

 

Other (excluding aromatic or mod aromatic) compds containing pyrimidine ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) or piperazine ring in the structure

 

Other compounds containing an unfused triazine ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure

29337200

  ( ) and methyprylon ( )

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with  -atoms only described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with  -atoms only, nesoi

29339100

Alprazolam ( ), camazepam ( ), chlordiazepoxide ( ), clonazepam ( ), clorazepate, and other specified INNs; salts thereof

 

Butyl (R)-2-[4-(5-triflouromethyl-2-pyridinyloxy)phenoxy]propanoate

 

2-[4-[(6-Chloro-2-quinoxalinyl)oxy]phenoxy]propionic acid, ethyl ester; and 1 other specified aromatic chemical

 

Acridine and indole

 

alpha-Butyl-alpha-(4-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-1-propanenitrile ( ); and one other specified aromatic chemical

 

Acetoacetyl-5-aminobenzimidazolone; 1,3,3-Trimethyl-2-methyleneindoline; and two other specified aromatic chemicals

29339911

Carbazole

 

6-Bromo-5-methyl-1H-imidazo-(4,5-b)pyridine; 2-sec-butyl-4-tert-butyl-6-(benzotriazol-2-yl)phenol; 2-methylindoline; and other specific

 

o-Diquat dibromide (1,1-Ethylene-2,2-dipyridylium dibromide)

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides with  ) only, nesoi

 

Other heterocyclic aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals with  ) only

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic antihistamines of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only

29339942

Acriflavin;   hydrochloride;  ; Pyrazinamide

29339946

Aromatic or modified aromatic anti-infective agents of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Hydralazine hydrochloride

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic cardiovascular drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic analgesics and certain like affecting chemicals, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only

 

 ; and   hydrochloride

 

Aromatic/modified aromatic psychotherapeutic agents, affecting the  , of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic anticonvulsants, hypnotics and sedatives, of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs affecting the central nervous system, of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen atom(s) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic compounds with  ) only described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic or mod. aromatic compounds with  ) only other than products described in add.   note 3 to section VI, nesoi

 

3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole

 

Hexamethyleneimine

 

  drugs of heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

29339997

  heterocyclic compounds with  ) only, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds cont. an unfused thiazole ring, described in add.   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds, nesoi, containing an unfused thiazole ring

 

Other compounds (excluding aromatic or modified aromatic) containing an unfused thiazole ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure

 

  compounds containing a benzothiazole ring-system, not further fused, described in add.   note 3 to section VI

 

Other compounds containing a benzothiazole ring system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused

 

Antidepressants, tranquilizers and other pschotherapeutic agents containing a phenothiazine ring-system, not further fused

 

Other drugs containing a phenothiazine ring system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused, nesoi

 

Products described in add.   note 3 to section VI containing a phenothiazine ring system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused

 

  compounds containing a phenothiazine ring-system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused, nesoi

29349100

Aminorex ( ), brotizolam ( ), clotiazepam ( ),   ( ), dextromoramide ( ), and other specified INNs; salts thereof

29349200

Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an unfused thiazole ring

 

Mycophenolate mofetil

 

2-Acetylbenzo(b)thiophene; and 2 other specified aromatic or modified aromatic compounds

 

5-Amino-3-phenyl-1,2,4-thiadiazole(3-Phenyl-5-amino-1,2,4-thiadiazole); and 3 other specified aromatic/mod. aromatic heterocyclic compounds

 

7-Nitronaphth[1,2]oxadiazole-5-sulfonic acid and its salts

 

Ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazoyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate (Fenoxaprop- ethyl)

 

2,5-Diphenyloxazole

 

1,2-Benzisothiazolin-3-one

29349911

2-tert-Butyl-4-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-delta(squared)-1,3,4-oxadiazolin-5-one;  ; Phosalone

29349912

Aromatic or modified aromatic fungicides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides nesoi, of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic other heterocyclic compounds described in additional   note 3 to section VI

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

  drugs of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Morpholinethyl chloride hydrochloride; 2-methyl-2,5-dioxo-1-oxa-2-phospholan; and 1 other specified nonaromatic chemical

 

  other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi

 

Other perfluorooctane sulfonamides

 

4-Amino-6-chloro-m-benzenedisulfonamide and Methyl-4-aminobenzenesulfonylcarbamate ( )

 

2-Amino-N-Ethylbenzenesulfonanilide etc

 

(5-[2-Chloro-4-(Trifluoromeythyl)phenoxy]-N-(Methylsulfonyl)-2-Nitrobenzamide)(fomesafen); etc

 

ortho-Toluenesulfonamide

 

Sulfonamides used as fast color bases and fast color salts

 

Sulfamethazine

 

Acetylsulfisoxazole; Sulfacetamide, sodium; and  , sodium

 

Sulfathiazole and Sulfathiazole, sodium

 

  ( );  ; Sulfaguanidine;  ; and  

 

Other sulfonamides used as anti-infective agents

 

Other sulfonamide drugs (excluding anti-infective agents)

 

Other sulfonamides (excluding drugs, etc) of products descibed in   note 3 to section 6

29359095

Other sulfonamides, excluding drugs, excluding products described in   note 4 to section 6

29362100

Vitamins A and their derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

29362200

  ( ) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

29362300

Vitamin B2 ( ) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

 

  (D- or   acid) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

29362500

  (  and related compounds with   activity) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

 

  (  and related compounds with   activity) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

 

Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

29362800

Vitamin E (Tocopherols and related compounds with Vitamin E activity) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized

 

  acid and its derivatives, unmixed

 

  and niacinamide

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic vitamins and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Other vitamins and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Vitamins or provitamins (including natural concentrates) and intermixtures of the foregoing, whether or not in any solvent

29371100

 , its derivatives and structural analogues

29371200

Insulin and its salts

 

Polypeptide hormones, protein hormones and glycoprotein hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi

 

Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone (Dehydrocortisone) and prednisolone (Dehydrohydrocortisone)

29372200

Halogenated derivatives of corticosteroidal hormones

 

  and progestins obtained directly or indirectly from animal or vegetable materials

 

  benzoate; and   cyclopentylpropionate (estradiol cypionate)

 

Other estrogens and progestins not derived from animal or vegetable materials, nesoi

 

Desonide; and   phenpropionate

 

Steroidal hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi

 

Prostaglandins, thromboxanes and leukotrienes, their derivatives and structural analogues

29379005

Epinephrine

29379010

Epinephrine hydrochloride

29379020

Catecholamine hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi

 

l-Thyroxine(Levothyroxine), sodium

 

Amino-acid derivatives of hormones and their derivatives, nesoi

 

Other hormones,their derivatives and structural analogues,other steroid derivatives and structural analogue used primarily as hormones,nesoi

29381000

Rutoside ( ) and its derivatives

29389000

Glycosides, natural or synthesized, and their salts, ethers, esters, and other derivatives other than rutoside and its derivatives

29391100

  of poppy straw; buprenorphine ( ), codeine, dihydrocodeine ( ), ethylmorphine, and other specified INNs; salts thereof

 

  and its salts

 

Synthetic alkaloids of opium and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

 

Nonsynthetic alkaloids of opium and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

29392000

Alkaloids of cinchona, and their derivatives; salts thereof, other than quinine and its salts

29393000

Caffeine and its salts

 

Ephedrine and its salts

29394200

Pseudoephedrine and its salts

 

Norephedrine & its salts

29394500

 , metamfetamine ( ), metamfetamine racemate and their salts

 

Alkaloids of ephedra and their salts, other than ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, cathine, norephedrine, levometamfetamine and their salts

 

  aminophylline ( -ethylenediamine) and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi

29396200

  and its salts

29396300

Lysergic acid and its salts

 

Alkaloids of rye ergot and their derivatives, nesoi; salts thereof

29397200

 , ecgonine; salts, esters and other derivatives thereof

29397900

Vegetable alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis, their salts and other derivatives, nesoi

 

Other alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis and their salts, ethers, esters & other derivatives, nesoi

 

Other sugars, nesoi excluding d-arabinose

 

Ampicillin and its salts

 

Penicillin G salts

 

 , sodium; cloxacillin, sodium;  , sodium;   ( ); and  , sodium

 

Penicillins and their derivatives nesoi, with a penicillanic acid structure; salts thereof

 

  and its derivatives; salts thereof

 

Streptomycins and their derivatives; salts thereof, nesoi

 

  and their derivatives; salts thereof

29414000

Chloramphenicol and their derivatives; salts thereof

29415000

  and their derivatives; salts thereof

 

Natural antibiotics, nesoi

29419030

Antibiotics, nesoi, aromatic or modified aromatic, other than natural

 

Antibiotics nesoi, other than aromatic or modified aromatic antibiotics

 

Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other organic compounds, nesoi

 

Other aromatic or modified aromatic organic compounds (excluding products described in additional   note 3 to section VI)

 

  organic compounds, nesoi

30012000

Extracts of glands or other organs or of their secretions for organotherapeutic uses

 

Glands and other organs for organotherapeutic uses, dried, whether or not powdered

30021200

  and other blood fractions including human blood and fetal bovine serum

30021300

Immunological products, unmixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale

30021400

Immunological products, mixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale

30021500

Immunological products, put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale

30024100

Vaccines for human medicine

30024200

Vaccines for veterinary medicine

30024900

Toxins or cultures of micro-organisms (excluding yeasts)

 

Cell therapy products

30025900

Other cell cultures, other than cell therapy products

 

Ferments, excluding yeasts

 

Human blood; animal blood prepared for therapeutic, prophylactic, diagnostic uses; antisera;   like products

30031000

Medicaments,  . penicillins or streptomycins, not dosage form and not packed for retail

30032000

Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, not dosage form and not packaged for retail

 

Medicaments containing artificial mixtures of natural hormones, but not antibiotics, not dosage form and not packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing products of heading  , nesoi, but not antibiotics, not dosage form and not packed for retail

30034100

Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, not dosage form and not packed for retail

30034200

Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine ( ) or its salts, not dosage form and not packed for retail

 

Other medicaments containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof, nesoi, not dosage form and not packed for retail

 

Other medicaments excl goods of heading  ,  ,   consist of two or more consituents mixed together, not dosage form and not packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing penicillin G salts, in dosage form and packed for retail

 

Medicaments cont. penicillins or streptomycins, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail

30042000

Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail

30043100

Medicaments containing insulin, in dosage form or packed for retail

30043200

Medicaments, containing adrenal cortical hormones, in dosage form or packed for retail

 

Medicaments, containing products of heading   nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail

30044100

Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, in dosage form and packed for retail

30044200

Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine ( ) or its salts, in dosage form and packed for retail

30044900

Other medicaments containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof, nesoi, in dosage form and packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing vitamin B2 synthesized from aromatic or mod. aromatic compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing vitamin   synthesized from aromatic or mod. Aromatic compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing vitamin E synthesized from aromatic or mod. aromatic compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail

30045040

Medicaments containing vitamins nesoi, synthesized from aromatic or mod. aromatic compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing vitamins or other products of heading  , nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail

30046000

Other medicaments containing antimalarial active principles described in subheading note 2 to this chapter, in dosage form and packed for retail

 

Medicaments containing antigens or hyaluronic acid or its sodium salt, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail

30049092

Medicaments nesoi, in dosage form and packed for retail

 

Opacifying preparation for X-ray examination; diagnostic reagent designed to be administered to the patient; all cont. antigens or antisera

 

Opacifying preparations for X-ray examinations; diagnostic reagents designed to be administered to the patient, nesoi

30066000

  contraceptive preparations based on hormones or spermicides

30067000

Gel preparation use human/veterinary medicine lubricant in surgical operation, physical exam or coupling agent tween body & med instrument

 

  and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, packaged with medicinal preparations

  and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing over 10% by dry weight of sugar

 

  and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing ingredients having nutritional value

 

  and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, in liquid form for oral intake

 

  and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing other chemicals other than medicaments

31042000

Potassium chloride

31043000

Potassium sulfate

 

Mineral or chemical fertilizers, potassic, nesoi

31051000

Fertilizers of chapter 31 in tablets or similar for

31052000

Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containin

 

Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containin

32030080

Coloring matter of vegetable or animal origin, nesoi

32041380

Basic dyes and preparations based  , nesoi

 

Copper phthalocyanine ([Phthalocyanato(2-)]copper) not ready for use as a pigment

32041800

Carotenoid coloring matters and preparations based   preparations based on titanium dioxide containing 80 percent or more by weight off titanium dioxide calculated on the dry weight

32061900

Pigments and preparations based on titanium dioxide, nesoi

 

Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, aromatic or modified aromatic

 

Fatty substances of animal, vegetable or microbial origin; non-ionic organic surfaceactive agents, other than aromatic or modified aromatic

 

Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, other than fatty substances of animal, vegetable or microbial origin, other than aromatic / modified aromatic

 

Ferrocerium and other pyrophoric alloys in all forms

 

Disinfectants, containing any aromatic or modified aromatic disinfectant

 

Disinfectants not subject to subheading note 1 of chapter 38, nesoi

38180000

  elements doped for use in electronics, in the form of discs, wafers etc., chemical compounds doped for electronic use

38249100

Mixtures consisting mainly of methylphosphonate etc.

 

Mixtures containing 5% or more by weight of one or more aromatic or modified aromatic substance, nesoi

 

Mixtures that are in whole or in part of hydrocarbons derived in whole or in part from petroleum, shale oil or natural gas

 

Mixtures of halogenated hydrocarbons, nesoi

 

  products and preparations and residual products of the chemical or allied industries, nesoi

39019090

Polymers of ethylene, nesoi, in primary forms, other than elastomeric

39029000

Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, nesoi, in primary forms

39046100

Polytetrafluoroethylene ( ), in primary forms

 

Copolymers of vinyl esters or other vinyls, in primary forms, containing by weight 50% or more of derivatives of vinyl acetate

 

Polymers of vinyl esters or other vinyl polymers, in primary forms, nesoi

 

  polymers (except plastics or elastomers), in primary forms, nesoi

39071000

Polyacetals in primary forms

39072100

Bis(polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate

39072900

Polyethers, other than polyacetals or bis(polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate, in primary forms

39073000

Epoxide resins in primary forms

39076100

Polyethylene terephthalate, having a viscosity number of 78 ml/g or higher

 

Polyethylene terephthalate, having a viscosity number less than 78 ml/g

39077000

Poly(lactic acid)

 

Other polyesters nesoi, saturated, in primary forms

39081000

Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10 or -6,12 in primary form

 

Silicones in primary forms

39119025

Thermoplastic polysulfides, polysulfones & oth products spec in note 3, chapt 39, cont aromatic monomer units or derived therefrom

39119091

Polysulfides, polysulfones & other products specified in note 3 to chapter 39, nesoi

 

Carboxymethylcellulose and its salts

39123900

Cellulose ethers, other than carboxymethylcellulose and its salts, in primary forms

39129000

Cellulose and its chemical derivatives nesoi, in primary forms

39139020

Polysaccharides and their derivatives, nesoi, in primary forms

 

Natural polymers and modified natural polymers, nesoi, in primary forms

 

Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headings   to  , in primary forms, nesoi

40011000

Natural rubber latex, whether or not prevulcanized

40012100

Natural rubber smoked sheets

40012200

Technically specified natural rubber ( ), in primary forms

 

Natural rubber in primary forms other than latex, smoked sheets or technically specified natural rubber ( )

40013000

 , gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar natural rubber gums, in primary forms

44011100

Coniferous fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or similar forms

44011200

Nonconiferous fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or similar forms

44012100

Coniferous wood in chips or particles

44012200

Nonconiferous wood in chips or particles

 

Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, pellets

44013200

Wood briquettes

 

Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, agglomerated, excluding wood pellets, wood briquettes and artificial fire logs

44014100

Sawdust, not agglomerated

 

Other wood waste and scrap, not agglomerated, other than sawdust

 

Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, of bamboo

44022000

Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, of shell or nut

 

Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, other than of bamboo or shell or nut

44031100

Coniferous wood in the rough whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly squared, treated with preservatives

44031200

Nonconiferous wood in the rough whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly squared, treated with preservatives

 

Pine wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Pine wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Fir and spruce wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Fir and spruce wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Other coniferous wood, except pine, fir and spruce, in the rough/roughly squared, greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Other coniferous wood, except pine, fir and spruce, in the rough/roughly squared, less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

44034200

Wood in the rough/roughly squared, of teak, not treated with paint/stain/creosote/other preserv

 

Wood in the rough/roughly squared, of tropical wood other than Teak or Meranti, not treated with paint/stain/creosote/other preserv

44039100

Oak wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly squared, not treated with preservatives

 

  wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

  wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Birch wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

 

Birch wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives

44039700

Poplar and aspen wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives

44039800

  wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives

 

Wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives, nesoi

44041000

Coniferous wood, roughly shaped into poles, pickets, stakes, sticks and other forms, to be finished into specific articles or products

44042000

Nonconiferous wood, roughly shaped into poles, pickets, stakes, sticks and other forms, to be finished into specific articles or products

 

Wood wool (excelsior); wood flour

44061100

Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of coniferous wood, not impregnated

44061200

Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of nonconiferous wood, not impregnated

 

Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of coniferous wood, impregnated

44069200

Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of nonconiferous wood, impregnated

44071100

Pine wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44071200

Fir and spruce wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Mixtures of spruce, pine and fir (S-P-F) wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44071400

Mixtures of hemlock and fir (hem-fir) wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Other coniferous wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44072100

Dark Red Meranti, Light   and other specified tropical woods, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44072200

Okoume,  ,   and other specified tropical woods, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Teak, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44072500

Dark Red Meranti, Light   and   wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

White Lauan, White Meranti,  ,   and   wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

  wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44072800

Iroko wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Tropical wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Oak wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44079200

  wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44079300

Maple wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Cherry wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44079500

Ash wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

44079600

Birch wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Poplar and aspen wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Nonconiferous wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

 

Coniferous veneer sheets and sheets for plywood & coniferous wood sawn/sliced/peeled not over 6 mm thick

 

Dark Red Meranti, Light   and   veneer sheets and sheets for plywood and other wood sawn/sliced/peeled, n/o 6 mm thick

 

Other tropical wood veneer sheets and sheets for plywood, and wood sawn/sliced/peeled n/o 6 mm thick

 

Nontropical nonconiferous veneer sheets and sheets for plywood and other wood sawn/sliced/peeled, not over 6 mm thick

 

Coniferous wood continuously shaped along any of its ends, whether or not also continuously shaped along any its edges or faces

 

Coniferous wood siding continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

44091020

Coniferous wood flooring continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

 

Standard wood moldings of pine (Pinus spp.) continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

44091045

Standard coniferous wood moldings, other than of pine, continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

 

Coniferous wood moldings, other than standard type, continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

 

Coniferous wood dowel rods, plain, continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

 

Coniferous wood dowel rod, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in condition, continuously shaped along any of edges or faces but not its ends

 

Coniferous wood, other than siding, flooring, moldings or dowel rod, continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

 

Nonconiferous wood (bamboo) continuously shaped along any of its ends, wether or not also continuously shaped along any its edges or faces

 

Bamboo, other than continuously shaped along any of its ends

 

Nonconiferous tropical wood continuously shaped along any ends, whether or not also continuously shaped along any edges or faces

 

Nonconiferous tropical wood siding, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Nonconiferous tropical wood flooring, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Nonconiferous tropical wood standard moldings, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Other nonconiferous tropical wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Plain nonconiferous tropical wood dowel rods, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

 . tropical wood dowel rods, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in condition, whether or not continuous. along edges or faces but not ends

 

Other nonconiferous tropical wood, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Other nonconiferous wood, continuously shaped along any ends, whether or not also continuously shaped along any edges or faces

 

Other nonconiferous wood siding, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Other nonconiferous wood flooring, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Other nonconiferous standard wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Other nonconiferous wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

 

Plain other nonconif. wood dowel rods, whether or not continuously shaped along edges or faces but not ends

44092966

Other nonconif. wood dowel rods, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in condition, whether or not continuously shaped along edges or faces but not ends

 

Other nonconiferous wood, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends

44101100

Waferboard, including oriented strand board, of wood

44101200

Oriented strand board and waferboard, of wood, unworked or not further worked than sanded

44101900

Particle board and similar board of wood, other than waferboard

 

Particle board and similar board of ligneous materials other than wood

44111210

MDF , <= 5 , not mechanically worked or surface covered

 

MDF, <= 5 , for construction, laminated

 

MDF , <= 5 , for construction, not laminated, nesoi

 

Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked surface covered (Except for oil treatment)

 

 , <= 5 , not for construction, nesoi

44111310

MDF, >5mm but <= 9 mm thick, not mechanically worked or surface covered

 

MDF, >5mm but <= 9 mm thick,, for construction, laminated

 

MDF , >5mm but <= 9 mm thick, for construction, not laminated, nesoi

 

Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked surface covered(except for oil treatment)

 

MDF, >5mm but <= 9 mm thick, not for construction, nesoi

 

Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, not mechanically worked or surface covered

 

Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, edgeworked continuously, laminated, for construction uses

 

Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm , tongued, grooved or rabbetted continuously, for construction uses, nesoi

 

Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, not mechanically worked surface covered (except for oil treatment)

44111490

Fiberboard nesoi,of a thickness exceeding 9 mm

 

  of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked or surface covered

 

 , of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, mechanically worked, not surface covered (except for oil treatment)

 

 , of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, mechanically edged-worked, for construction uses

 

Fiberboard nesoi, density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3

 

 , not  , of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked or surface covered

 

 , not  , of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, edgeworked continuously, laminated, for construction uses

 

Fiberboard, not  , of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, tongued, grooved or rabbetted continuously, for construction, nesoi

 

Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked surface covered (Except for oil)

 

 , not  , of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, nesoi

44119400

Fiberboard of a density exceeding 0.35 g/cm3 but not exceeding 0.5 g/cm3, not mechanically worked or surface covered

44121005

Plywood, veneered panels and similar laminated wood, of bamboo

 

Veneered panels and similar laminated wood, of bamboo, other than plywood

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, birch face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

44123126

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply,     or walnut face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

44123142

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, with mahogany face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick tropical wood outer ply not mahogony face ply not surfact covered beyond clear/transparent of spec.  , width, length

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, not mahogony face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent, nesoi

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood nesoi at least one outer ply, with face ply nesoi, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, with certain specified tropical wood outer ply, surface covered beyond clear or transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood nesoi at least one outer ply, surface covered beyond clear or transparent

44123306

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, birch face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

44123326

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, walnut face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of specified nonconiferous wood excluding walnut and birch, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

44123357

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of specified nonconiferous wood including birch and walnut, surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33,   cedar face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33, face ply nesoi, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33, face ply nesoi, surface covered beyond clear/transparent

 

Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood, face ply of   pine, not or clear surface covered

 

Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood,   red pine face ply, not or clear surface covered

 

Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood, with face ply nesoi, not or clear surface covered

 

Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood, nesoi, surface covered, nesoi

44124100

Laminated veneered lumber with at least one outer ply of tropical wood

44124200

Laminated veneered lumber with at least one outer ply of nonconiferous wood

 

Laminated veneered lumber with both outer plies of coniferous wood

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply of birch

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, not w/face ply of birch

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply of birch

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, not w/face ply of birch

44125241

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one  . outer ply, not surface-covered beyond transparent, not w/face ply of Europe red pine or   pine

 

Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one coniferous outer ply, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one coniferous outer ply

 

Not blockboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/at least one outer ply of tropical wood containing at least one layer of particle board

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of tropical wood, no particle board, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply birch

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of tropical wood, no particle board, not surface-covered beyond transparent, not w/face ply of birch

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of tropical, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Not blockboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood w/ at least one tropical outer ply, nesoi

 

Not blockboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/at least one nonconiferous outer ply, at least one layer of particle board

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of nonconif wood, no particle board, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply birch

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of nonconif wood, no particle board, not surface-covered beyond transparent, not w/face ply of birch

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of nonconiferous, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Not blockboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood, not plywood, w/ at least one nonconiferous outer ply, nesoi

 

Not blockboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/both outer plies of coniferous, containing at least one layer of particle board

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/both outer plies of  , no particle board, not surf.-cov. beyond clear/transp., face ply   pine

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of  , no particle board, not surf.-cov. beyond clear/transp., face ply Europe red pine

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of  , no particle board, not surf-cov. beyond clear/transparent, face ply nesoi

 

Not blockboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of  , no particle board, surface covered other than clear or transparent

 

Not blockboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood w/ both outer plies of  , nesoi

44130000

Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips or profile shapes

48202000

Exercise books of paper or paperboard

 

Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter in single sheets, whether or not folded

49019100

Printed dictionaries and encyclopedias and serial installments thereof

 

Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter, other than in single sheets

49021000

Newspapers, journals and periodicals, appearing at least four times a week

 

Newspaper supplements printed by a gravure process

 

Newspaper, journals and periodicals, except those appearing at least four times a week

 

Children's picture, drawing or coloring books

49040000

Music, printed or in manuscript, whether or not bound or illustrated

49052000

Maps and hydrographic or similar charts of all kinds, including atlases and topographical plans, printed in book form

49059020

Globes, printed

 

Other printed maps and hydrographic or similar charts, not globes and not in book form, nesoi

 

Hand-drawn original plans and drawings; hand-written texts; photo reproductions on sensitized paper and carbon copies of the foregoing

49111000

Printed trade advertising material, commercial catalogs and the like

 

Printed matter, nesoi, printed on paper in whole or in part by a lithographic process

 

Printed matter, nesoi

 

Silver bullion and dore

71081210

Gold, nonmonetary, bullion and dore

71101100

Platinum, unwrought or in powder form

 

Platinum, in semimanufactured forms

71102100

Palladium, unwrought or in powder form

71102900

Palladium, in semimanufactured forms

71103100

Rhodium, unwrought or in powder form

71103900

Rhodium, in semimanufactured forms

71104100

Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, unwrought or in powder form

71104900

Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, in semimanufactured forms

71129201

Platinum waste and scrap, incl. metal clad w/ platinum, excluding sweepings containing other precious metals, other than goods of e-waste heading  

71189000

 , nesoi

 

  containing by weight more than 2 percent but not more than 4 percent of carbon

72021150

  containing by weight more than 4 percent of carbon

 

  containing by weight not more than 1 percent of carbon

 

  containing by weight more than 1 percent but not more than 2 percent of carbon

72023000

  manganese

72024100

Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 4 percent of carbon

 

Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 3 percent but not more than 4 percent of carbon

 

Ferrochromium containing by weight 3 percent or less of carbon

72025000

  chromium

 

Ferrotungsten and ferrosilicon tungsten

72029100

Ferrotitanium and ferrosilicon titanium

 

Ferroniobium containing by weight less than 0.02 percent of phosphorus or sulfur or less than 0.4 percent of silicon

 

Ferroniobium, nesoi

72042100

Stainless steel waste and scrap

74010000

Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper)

74020000

Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic refining

74031100

Refined copper cathodes and sections of cathodes

74031200

Refined copper, wire bars

74031300

Refined copper, billets

74031900

Refined copper, unwrought articles nesoi

74032100

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), unwrought nesoi

74032200

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), unwrought nesoi

 

Copper alloys (o/than copper-zinc, copper-tin alloys), unwrought nesoi

 

Copper spent anodes; copper waste & scrap containing less than 94% by weight of copper

 

Copper, waste and scrap containing 94% or more by weight of copper

 

Copper master alloys, containing 5% or more but n/more than 15% by weight of phosphorus

 

Copper master alloys, not containing 5% or more but n/more than 15% by weight of phosphorus

 

Copper, powders of non-lamellar structure

74062000

Copper, powders of lamellar structure; copper flakes

74071015

Refined copper, hollow profiles

74071030

Refined copper, profiles (o/than hollow profiles)

 

Refined copper, bars and rods

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), hollow profiles

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), low fuming brazing rods

74072170

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass),   rods nesoi, having a rectangular cross section

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass),   rods nesoi, not having a rectangular cross section

74072916

Copper alloys , hollow profiles

 

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)

 

Copper alloys (o/than cupro-nickel or nickel silver), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)

 

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver), bars & rods

74072950

Copper alloys (o/than brass, cupro-nickel or nickel silver), bars and rods

 

Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension over 9.5 mm

 

Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension over 6 mm but not over 9.5 mm

74081900

Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension of 6 mm or less

74082100

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), wire

74082210

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver), wire, coated or plated with metal

 

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver), wire, not coated or plated w/metal

 

Copper alloys (o/than brass, cupro-nickel or nickel-silver), wire, coated or plated with metal

 

Copper alloys (o/than brass, cupro-nickel or nickel-silver), wire, not coated or plated with metal

 

Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness of 5 mm or more

74091150

Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness over 0.15mm but less than 5 mm

 

Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness of 5 mm or more

 

Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness o/0.15  but less than 5 mm & a width of 500 mm or more

74091990

Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness o/0.15  but less than 5 mm & a width of less than 500 mm

74092100

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), plates, sheets and strip, in coils

74092900

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), plates, sheets and strip, not in coils

 

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils. with a thickness of 5 mm or more

 

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness o/0.15  but less than 5mm & a width of 500mm or more

 

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils, w/thickness o/0.15  but less than 5mm & a width of less than 500mm

 

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness of 5 mm or more

 

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness o/0.15 but less than 5 mm & of a width of 500 mm or more

74093990

Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness o/0.15 but less than 5 mm & of a width of less than 500 mm

74094000

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver), plates, sheets and strip, w/thickness o/0.15mm

 

Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates,   strip, with thickness of 5 mm or more

74099050

Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates,   strip, w/thick. o/0.15  but less   width 500mm+

74099090

Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates,   strip, w/thick. o/0.15  but less   width less 500mm

74101100

Refined copper, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, not backed

74101200

Copper alloys, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, not backed

74102130

Refined copper, clad laminates, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed

 

Refined copper, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed

 

Copper alloys, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed

 

Refined copper, tubes and pipes, seamless

 

Refined copper, tubes and pipes, other than seamless

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), tubes and pipes, seamless

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), tubes and pipes, other than seamless

74112200

Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickelsilver), tubes and pipes

 

Copper alloys (o/than brass/cupro-nickel/nickel-silver), pipes and tubes, seamless

 

Copper alloys (o/than brass/cupro-nickel/nickel-silver), pipes and tubes, other than seamless

74121000

Refined copper, fittings for tubes and pipes

74122000

Copper alloys, fittings for tubes and pipes

74130010

Copper, stranded wire, not electrically insulated, not fitted with fittings and not made up into articles

 

Copper, cables, plaited bands and the like, not fitted with fittings and not made up into articles

74130090

Copper, stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, not electrically insulated, fitted with fittings or made up into articles

 

Copper or iron/steel w/heads of copper, nails and tacks, drawing pins, staples and similar articles

 

Copper, washers (including   washers)

74152900

Copper, rivets, cotters, cotter pins and similar non-threaded articles (o/than washers)

 

Copper screws for wood

 

  or yellow metal copper bolts

74153380

Screws (other than wood screws), bolts (other than   or yellow metal) and nuts, of copper, threaded, nesoi

74153900

Copper, screw hooks and other threaded articles, nesoi

74181000

Copper & copper alloy table, kitchen, household articles & parts; pot scourers, scouring & polishing pads, gloves, etc

 

Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), sanitary ware and parts thereof

 

Copper (o/than brass), sanitary ware and parts thereof

 

Copper, articles nesoi, cast, molded, stamped, or forged but not further worked

 

Copper,   wires, for use in papermaking machines, w/94 or more wires to the lineal cm

 

Copper cloth, other than   wires, nesoi

 

Copper, wire grill and netting; expanded metal of copper

74198015

Copper, containers a kind normally carried on the person, in the pocket or in the handbag

 

Copper, springs

 

Copper, chain and parts thereof

 

Copper, articles nesoi, coated or plated with precious metal

 

Copper, articles nesoi, not coated or plated with precious metal

 

Nickel, articles of nesoi

79011100

Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, containing o/99.99% by weight of zinc

79011210

Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, casting-grade zinc, containing at least 97.5% but less than 99.99% by weight of zinc

79011250

Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, o/than casting-grade zinc, containing at least 97.5% but less than 99.99% by wt. of zinc

79012000

Zinc alloy, unwrought

79020000

Zinc, waste and scrap

79070060

Zinc, articles (o/than for household, table or kitchen use), nesoi

80011000

Tin (o/than alloy), unwrought

 

Tin alloy, unwrought

80020000

Tin, waste and scrap

80070050

Tin, articles nesoi

81011000

Tungsten, powders

81019700

Tungsten waste and scrap

81032000

Tantalum, unwrought (including bars and rods obtained simply by sintering); tantalum powders

81033000

Tantalum waste and scrap

81039100

Tantalum, crucibles

 

Tantalum, articles other than crucibles, nesoi

81041100

Magnesium, unwrought, containing at least 99.8 percent by weight of magnesium

81041900

Magnesium, unwrought, nesoi

81042000

Magnesium, waste and scrap

81043000

Magnesium, raspings, turnings and granules graded according to size; magnesium powders

81049000

Magnesium, articles nesoi

 

Cobalt alloys, unwrought

 

Cobalt (other than alloys), unwrought

 

Cobalt, mattes and other intermediate products of cobalt metallurgy; cobalt powders

81053000

Cobalt waste and scrap

81059000

Cobalt, articles thereof nesoi

81061000

Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles thereof, containing more than 99.99 percent of bismuth by weight

81069000

Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles thereof, containing 99.99 percent of bismuth or less, nesoi

81082000

Titanium, unwrought; titanium powders

81083000

Titanium waste and scrap

 

Titanium, articles nesoi

81089060

Titanium, wrought nesoi

81101000

Antimony, unwrought; antimony powders

81102000

Antimony waste and scrap

81109000

Articles of antimony, nesoi

 

Unwrought manganese flake containing at least 99.5 percent by weight manganese

81110049

Unwrought manganese, nesoi

 

Chromium, unwrought; chromium powders

81122200

Chromium waste and scrap

81122900

Articles of chromium, nesoi

 

Rhenium, waste and scrap

81124150

Rhenium, unwrought; rhenium powders

81124900

Rhenium, articles, nesoi

81125900

Articles of thallium, nesoi

81129210

Gallium, unwrought; gallium powders

81129230

Indium, unwrought; indium powders

81129240

Niobium (columbium), unwrought; niobium powders

 

Germanium, unwrought

 

Germanium powder, wrought

 

Germanium nesoi and articles thereof

 

Articles of gallium, indium, or niobium, nesoi

85411000

Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting diodes

85412100

 , other than photosensitive transistors, with a dissipation rating of less than 1 W

85412900

 , other than photosensitive transistors, with a dissipation rating of 1 W or more

85413000

Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than photosensitive devices

 

Other photosensitive semiconductor diodes, other than light-emitting

 

Other photosensitive semiconductor transistors

 

Optical coupled isolators

 

Other photosensitive semiconductor devices, other than diodes or transistors, nesoi

 

Other semiconductor-based transducers, other than photosensitive transducers

 

Other semiconductor devices, other than semiconductor-based transducers, other than photosensitive devices, nesoi

85419000

Parts of diodes, transistors, similar semiconductor devices, photosensitive semiconductor devices, LED's and mounted piezoelectric crystals

85423100

Electronic integrated circuits: processors and controllers

85423200

Electronic integrated circuits: memories

85423300

Electronic intergrated circuits: amplifiers

85423900

Electronic integrated circuits: other

85429000

Parts of electronic integrated circuits and microassemblies

NOTE: This Executive order and its attached annex were published in  on  .
