Executive Order  —  Initiative To Promote Excellence and Innovation at Historically Black Colleges and Universities
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) remain integral to   students' pursuit of prosperity and wellbeing, providing the pathway to a career and a better life. This order will continue the work begun during my first Administration to elevate the value and impact of our  's HBCUs as beacons of educational excellence and economic opportunity that serve as some of the best cultivators of  's leaders in business, government, academia, and the military.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to support HBCUs in: advancing  's full potential; fostering more and better opportunities in higher education; providing the highest-quality education; obtaining equal opportunities for participation in Federal programs; ensuring college-educated   are empowered to advance the common good at home and abroad; and making our Nation more globally competitive.

 . 3

.

White House Initiative on HBCUs

. (a) There is hereby established   Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (Initiative), housed in   of the President and led by an   Director designated by the President.

(b) The Initiative shall work with executive departments and agencies (agencies),   and Universities established in section 4 of this order, private-sector employers, educational associations, philanthropic organizations, and other partners to increase the capacity of HBCUs to provide the highest-quality education to an increasing number of students. The Initiative shall have two primary missions:

(i) increasing the private-sector role, including the role of private foundations, in:

(A) strengthening HBCUs through enhanced institutional planning and development, fiscal stability, and financial management;

(B) upgrading institutional infrastructure, including the use of technology, to ensure the long-term viability of these institutions; and

(C) providing professional development opportunities for   students to help build  's workforce in technology, healthcare, manufacturing, finance, and other high-growth industries; and

(ii) enhancing HBCUs' capabilities to serve our  's young adults by:

(A) supporting implementation of the   PARTNERS Act (Public Law 116-270), including facilitating the   agency plan process required by section 4 of that Act (   );

(B) working to advance my  's key priorities related to promoting innovation and excellence throughout HBCUs in consultation with   leaders, representatives, students, and alumni;

(C) fostering private-sector initiatives and public-private and philanthropic partnerships to promote centers of academic research and program excellence at HBCUs;

(D) improving the availability and quality of information concerning HBCUs in the public policy sphere;

(E) sharing administrative and programmatic best practices within the   community;

(F) addressing efforts to promote student success and retention at HBCUs, including college affordability, degree attainment, campus modernization, and infrastructure improvements;

(G) partnering with private entities and elementary and secondary education stakeholders to build a pipeline for students that may be interested in attending HBCUs and promote affordable degree attainment;

(H) encouraging States to provide the required   matching funds for    ;

(I) collaborating with   governments to establish a framework for addressing barriers to accessing   funding to ensure that HBCUs receive the maximum funding to which they may be entitled;

(J) collaborating with agencies to improve the competitiveness of HBCUs for other sources of Federal research and development funding; and

(K) convening an     on HBCUs to address matters related to the  's missions and functions.

(c) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  . Each agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the  .

 . 4

.

President's  . (a) There is established in   the President's   Historically Black Colleges and  ). The   shall fulfill the mission and functions established by, shall have the structure set forth in, and shall in all other respects be subject to the provisions of section 5 of the HBCU PARTNERS Act ( ). The Board shall include representatives of a variety of sectors, such as philanthropy, education, business, finance, entrepreneurship, innovation, and private foundations, and current   presidents.

(b) The   shall advise the President, through the  , on the matters set forth in section 5(c) of the   PARTNERS Act (20 U.S.C. 1063e(c)).

(c)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Insofar as chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as  ), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except for those in section 6 and section 14 of that Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with guidelines issued by  .

 . 5

.

Accountability and Implementation

. (a) The Executive Director of the   shall submit an   progress report to the President summarizing   impact on HBCUs and providing recommendations for improvement.

 . 6

.

Revocations

. Executive Order   of   (  Initiative on  , and Economic Opportunity Through Historically Black Colleges and Universities), is hereby revoked. Within   of this order,   shall terminate   and Universities and Minority Serving Institutions Advisory Council.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) For the purposes of this order, "historically black colleges and universities" shall mean those institutions listed in 34   608.2.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
