Executive Order  —Prosecuting Burning of the American Flag
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

. Our great American Flag is the most sacred and cherished symbol of  , and of   freedom, identity, and strength. Over nearly two-and-a-half centuries, many thousands of   patriots have fought, bled, and died to keep the Stars and Stripes waving proudly.   is a special symbol in our national life that should unite and represent all   of every background and walk of life. Desecrating it is uniquely offensive and provocative. It is a statement of contempt, hostility, and violence against our  —the clearest possible expression of opposition to the political union that preserves our rights, liberty, and security. Burning this representation of   may incite violence and riot.   burning is also used by groups of foreign nationals as a calculated act to intimidate and threaten violence against   because of their nationality and place of birth.

Notwithstanding   rulings on   protections, the   has never held that   desecration conducted in a manner that is likely to incite imminent lawless action or that is an action amounting to "fighting words" is constitutionally protected.

See  

v.

 

, 491  ,   ( ).

My Administration will act to restore respect and sanctity to   and prosecute those who incite violence or otherwise violate our laws while desecrating this symbol of our country, to the fullest extent permissible under any available authority.

 . 2. Measures to   of the American Flag

. (a) The Attorney General shall prioritize the enforcement to the fullest extent possible of our  's criminal and civil laws against acts of   desecration that violate applicable, content-neutral laws, while causing harm unrelated to expression, consistent with the First Amendment. This may include, but is not limited to, violent crimes; hate crimes, illegal discrimination against   citizens, or other violations of  ' civil rights; and crimes against property and the peace, as well as conspiracies and attempts to violate, and aiding and abetting others to violate, such laws.

(b) In cases where   or another executive department or agency (agency) determines that an instance of   desecration may violate an applicable   or local law, such as open burning restrictions, disorderly conduct laws, or destruction of property laws, the agency shall refer the matter to the appropriate   or local authority for potential action.

(c) To the maximum extent permitted by the Constitution, the Attorney General shall vigorously prosecute those who violate our laws in ways that involve desecrating  , and may pursue litigation to clarify the scope of the First Amendment exceptions in this area.

(d) The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  , acting within their respective authorities, shall deny, prohibit, terminate, or revoke visas, residence permits, naturalization proceedings, and other immigration benefits, or seek removal from  , pursuant to Federal law, including 8 U.S.C. 1182(a), 8 U.S.C.  , 8 U.S.C.  , 8 U.S.C. 1451(c), and 8 U.S.C.  ), whenever there has been an appropriate determination that foreign nationals have engaged in   Flag-desecration activity under circumstances that permit the exercise of such remedies pursuant to Federal law.

 . 3. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
