Executive Order  —Enabling Competition in the Commercial Space Industry
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

. In  ,   landed the first humans on the  . In   since, premier space companies from around the world have been drawn to launch rockets and satellites from  , incentivized by its infrastructure and support for commercial space activities.   are more prosperous because of the space research and development occurring here.

It is imperative that we build on the far-reaching actions taken by my Administration during my first term to ensure that new space-based industries, space exploration capabilities, and cutting-edge defense systems are pioneered in   rather than by our adversaries. Ensuring that   operators can efficiently launch, conduct missions in space, and reenter   airspace is critical to economic growth, national security, and accomplishing Federal space exploration objectives.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of   to enhance   greatness in space by enabling a competitive launch marketplace and substantially increasing commercial space launch cadence and novel space activities by  . To accomplish this,   will streamline commercial license and permit approvals for  -based operators.

 . 3. Reforming   to Commercial Launch and Reentry

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with  , shall, consistent with applicable law, use all available authorities to eliminate or expedite   environmental reviews for, and other obstacles to the granting of, launch and reentry licenses and permits. Such measures shall include the exercise of authority by the Secretary of   under 51 U.S.C. 50905(b)(2)(C) as applicable; determining which   functions are not subject to   ( ); and, as appropriate, establishing categorical exclusions under   (or relying on existing categorical exclusions) for launch and reentry licenses and permits within certain parameters.

(b) The Secretary of   shall reevaluate, amend, or rescind, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the regulations at Part 450 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations. The Secretary's evaluation, amendment, or rescission shall specifically address:

(i) what regulatory requirements should be inapplicable for a launch or reentry vehicle that possesses a flight termination system or automated flight safety system;

(ii) what regulatory requirements should be inapplicable or waived for hybrid launch or reentry vehicles that hold valid   airworthiness certificates;

(iii) whether to expand the conditions that demonstrate reliability for a reentry vehicle, sufficient to protect against a high-consequence event on reentry; and

(iv) whether other existing requirements are too attenuated to a vehicle's actual launch or reentry to warrant retention in Part 450.

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy a description of the actions that have been or will be taken pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.

 . 4. Reforming   to Next Generation Spaceport Infrastructure

. (a) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   ( ), shall, within   of the date of this order, conduct an evaluation of relevant States' compliance under the Coastal Zone Management Act pursuant to 16 U.S.C.  , the effect of any lack of compliance on the development of spaceport infrastructure, and whether   approvals under that Act should be revoked. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   shall also notify   of any   or local limitations on spaceport development on Federal lands that may be inconsistent with Federal law.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   shall execute a memorandum of understanding that aligns review processes for spaceport development across agencies, eliminates those that are duplicative, and preserves required Federal space-exploration and   capacity.

(c) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   shall, consistent with applicable law, use all available authorities to expedite their respective environmental and administrative reviews for authorizations, permits, approval, real property leases, and any other activity relevant to spaceport infrastructure development. The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall coordinate with relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) on the establishment of new categorical exclusions under   for actions related to spaceport development that normally do not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Agencies shall, for purposes of establishing these categorical exclusions, rely on any sufficient basis to do so as each such agency determines.

(d) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Administrator of   shall, mindful of the significant national security imperatives inherent in commercial space advancement, consider for all spaceport development projects whether to submit an application to   pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1536(e).

 . 5. Reforming Novel Space Activity Authorization

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall propose a process for individualized mission authorizations for activities that are covered by Article VI of the Outer Space Treaty of  , but not clearly or straightforwardly governed by existing regulatory frameworks, with the goal of expediting and streamlining authorizations to enable   space competitiveness and superiority. This proposal must solicit and consider affected agencies' feedback on the authorization process, contain a definitive timeline for the grant or denial of authorization for proposed activities, and include clear and consistent requirements for applicants. The Secretary of Commerce shall transmit the proposal to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Assistant to the President for  . Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to human spaceflight.

 . 6. Reforming Regulatory Leadership and Accountability

. (a) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall establish a position in   Secretary with the responsibility of advising the Secretary of   on fostering innovation and deregulation in the commercial space transportation industry. The Secretary of   shall further direct the Administrator of   to take all necessary steps to appoint a senior executive noncareer employee to be  .

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall elevate   into  .

 . 7. Administrative Note

. Where applicable, the functions assigned to the Secretary of   in sections 1 through 5 of this order shall be carried out by   under the direction of the Secretary of  .

 . 8. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
