Executive Order  —  and Politically-Motivated Proxy Advisors
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

. Unbeknownst to many  , two foreign-owned proxy advisors,   and  ,  , play a significant role in shaping the policies and priorities of  's largest companies through the shareholder voting process. These firms, which control more than 90 percent of the proxy advisor market, advise their clients about how to vote the enormous numbers of shares their clients hold and manage on behalf of millions of   in mutual funds and exchange traded funds. Their clients' holdings often constitute a significant ownership stake in   largest publicly traded companies, and their clients often follow the proxy advisors' advice.

As a result, these proxy advisors wield enormous influence over corporate governance matters, including shareholder proposals, board composition, and executive compensation, as well as capital markets and the value of  ' investments more generally, including 401(k)s, IRAs, and other retirement investment vehicles. These proxy advisors regularly use their substantial power to advance and prioritize radical politically-motivated agendas—like "diversity, equity, and inclusion" and "environmental, social, and governance"—even though investor returns should be the only priority. For example, these proxy advisors have supported shareholder proposals requiring   companies to conduct racial equity audits and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and one continues to provide guidance based on the racial or ethnic diversity of corporate boards. Their practices also raise significant concerns about conflicts of interest and the quality of their recommendations, among other concerns.   must therefore increase oversight of and take action to restore public confidence in the proxy advisor industry, including by promoting accountability, transparency, and competition.

 . 2.   from   (a) The Chairman of   ( ) shall review all rules, regulations, guidance, bulletins, and memoranda relating to proxy advisors. Consistent with the Administrative Procedure Act ( ) (5 U.S.C. 551

et seq

.), the   Chairman shall consider revising or rescinding those rules, regulations, guidance, bulletins, and memoranda that are inconsistent with the purpose of this order, especially to the extent that they implicate "diversity, equity, and inclusion" and "environmental, social, and governance" policies.

(b) Consistent with the  , the   Chairman shall consider revising or rescinding all rules, regulations, guidance, bulletins, and memoranda relating to shareholder proposals, including Rule 14a–8 (17 CFR 240.14a–8), that are inconsistent with the purpose of this order.

(c) The   Chairman shall:

(i) enforce the   securities laws' anti-fraud provisions with respect to material misstatements or omissions contained in proxy advisors' proxy voting recommendations;

(ii) assess whether to require proxy advisors whose activities fall within the scope of   of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b–1

et seq

.) and the rules promulgated thereunder, to register as  ;

(iii) consider requiring proxy advisors to provide increased transparency on their recommendations, methodology, and conflicts of interest, especially regarding "diversity, equity, and inclusion" and "environmental, social, and governance" factors;

(iv) analyze whether, and under what circumstances, a proxy advisor serves as a vehicle for investment advisers to coordinate and augment their voting decisions with respect to a company's securities and, through such coordination and augmentation, form a group for purposes of sections  ) and 13(g)(3) of   of   (15 U.S.C. 78a

et seq

.); and

(v) direct   staff to examine whether the practice of   engaging proxy advisors to advise on (and following the recommendations of such proxy advisors with respect to) non-pecuniary factors in investing, including, as appropriate, "diversity, equity, and inclusion" and "environmental, social, and governance" factors, is inconsistent with their fiduciary duties.

 . 3. Unfair, Deceptive, or  . (a) The Chairman of   ( ), in consultation with the Attorney General, shall review ongoing   antitrust investigations into proxy advisors and determine if there is a probable link between conduct underlying those investigations and violations of Federal antitrust law.

(b) The   Chairman, under the authorities provided in   (15 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) and in consultation with the Attorney General, as appropriate, shall investigate whether proxy advisors engage in unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices that harm   consumers by:

(i) conspiring or colluding, explicitly or implicitly, to diminish the value of consumer investments (including pensions and retirement accounts);

(ii) failing to adequately disclose conflicts of interest;

(iii) providing misleading or inaccurate information;

(iv) undermining the ability of consumers to make informed choices; or

(v) otherwise engaging in conduct that violates the antitrust laws as defined in 15 U.S.C. 12(a) or section 5 of   (15 U.S.C. 45).

 . 4.  

. (a) The Secretary of   shall, consistent with the  , take steps to revise all regulations and guidance regarding the fiduciary status of individuals who manage, or, like proxy advisors, advise those who manage, the rights appurtenant to shares held by plans covered under   of   (ERISA) (29 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), including proxy votes and corporate engagement, consistent with the policy of this order. The Secretary of   shall consider whether these proposed revisions should include amendments to specify that any individual who has a relationship of trust and confidence with their client, including any proxy advisor, and who provides advice for a fee or other compensation, direct or indirect, with respect to the exercise of the rights appurtenant to shares held by   plans, is an investment advice fiduciary under  .

(b) The Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to strengthen the fiduciary standards of pension and retirement plans covered under ERISA. Such action shall include assessing whether proxy advisors act solely in the financial interests of plan participants and the extent to which any of their practices undermine the pecuniary value of the assets of   plans.

(c) The Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action to enhance transparency concerning the use of proxy advisors, particularly regarding "diversity, equity, and inclusion" and "environmental, social, and governance" investment practices.

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
