Executive Order 14364—Addressing Security Risks From Price Fixing and   in the Food Supply Chain
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Background

. An affordable and secure food supply is vital to  's national and economic security. However, anti-competitive behavior, especially when carried out by foreign-controlled corporations, threatens the stability and affordability of  's food supply. In   certain companies in the   food supply chain have even settled civil suits accusing them of price fixing for tens of millions of dollars. Food supply sectors including meat processing, seed, fertilizer, and equipment have similar vulnerabilities to price fixing and other anti-competitive practices. My Administration will act to determine whether anti-competitive behavior, especially by foreign-controlled companies, increases the cost of living for   and address any associated national security threat to food supply chains.

 . 2.  

. (a) The Attorney General and the Chairman of   shall each establish   within   and  , respectively, that will take all necessary and appropriate actions to investigate food-related industries within their established areas of expertise and determine whether anti-competitive behavior exists in food supply chains in  , as well as whether control of food-related industries by foreign entities is increasing the cost of food products in   or creating a national or economic security threat to  . The Attorney General and the Chairman of   shall take such actions as are necessary to remedy any anti-competitive behavior that their respective investigations uncover, including bringing enforcement actions and proposing new regulatory approaches. Should   uncover any evidence of criminal collusion, the Attorney General shall commence criminal proceedings as appropriate, including grand jury investigations.

(b) The Task Forces shall, as permitted by law, jointly brief the Speaker of the  , the Majority Leader of the  , and the chairs of congressional committees of jurisdiction with a summary of their progress pursuant to this order once within   following the date of this order, and again within   following the date of this order, including, if relevant after consulting with the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative, Political, and  , any recommended congressional actions. Such briefings shall not include any information related to ongoing investigations, prosecutions, regulatory actions, or litigation nor any non-public information regarding any food-related industry investigated pursuant to this order.

 . 3. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
