Executive Order 14383—Establishing an  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

.  -manufactured military equipment is the best in the world, resulting in   dominance across international defense exports. It is critical that   fully use this comparative advantage in arms transfers as both a tool of foreign policy and a tool to expand domestic production and transfer.

To maintain our military dominance and technological superiority, the time has come to establish, implement, and execute an  . As the first strategy of its kind, it will ensure that future arms sales prioritize   interests by using foreign purchases and capital to build   production and capacity. This strategy will advance a technologically superior, ready, and resilient national security industrial enterprise. It will strengthen   defense industrial base to ensure it has the capacity to support our military and our allies and partners, especially as we increase burden-sharing.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of   to intentionally use arms transfers as a tool of   foreign policy and to expand strategically relevant industrial production capacity in   by:

(a) establishing an   that provides clear direction and implementation guidance to arms transfer stakeholders; and

(b) streamlining processes across executive departments and agencies (agencies) to strengthen effectiveness and create efficiencies in our defense sales enterprise.

 . 3.  . (a)   shall accomplish the following objectives:

(i)   will use arms sales and transfers to increase production and build production capacity for weapons and platforms the Secretary of War determines to be the most operationally relevant for executing   ( );

(ii)   will use foreign purchases and capital to support domestic reindustrialization, expand production capacity, and improve the resilience of   defense industrial base. Arms sales and transfers will support   (DoW) efforts to promote innovation and competition by incentivizing new entrants and nontraditional defense companies to contribute to the defense industrial base;

(iii)   will use arms sales and transfers to reinforce   acquisition and sustainment activities, including by building critical supply chain resilience and avoiding adding to backlogs on priority components and end-items that impact   or ally and partner readiness;

(iv) Consistent with Executive Order   of   (  to Improve Speed and Accountability),   will prioritize arms sales and transfers to partners that have invested in their own self-defense and capabilities, have a critical role or geography in   plans and operations, or contribute to our economic security.

(b) Within   of this order, the Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , shall submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , a sales catalog of prioritized platforms and systems that   shall encourage our allies and partners to acquire. The sales catalog shall be based on criteria identified in  .

(c) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of   and the Secretary of War, shall provide recommendations to enhance advocacy efforts encouraging foreign procurement of defense articles produced in   for the purpose of supporting an  .

(d) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall identify   (FMS) and Direct Commercial Sales opportunities that will support the strategic objectives of   and the growth of   defense industrial base.

(e) Within   of this order, the Secretary of   and the Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall develop an industry engagement plan and submit it to the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , to enable   to fully coordinate with   stakeholders while executing  .

 . 4.   in American Arms Transfers

. In order to fully implement an   and streamline our defense sales process,   shall undertake the following actions:

(i) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall develop clear criteria for determining which weapons, platforms, or capabilities require  . Additionally, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of Commerce shall establish an End Use Monitoring coordination group, consisting of designees from each respective department, which will meet to improve the effectiveness and coordination of their respective department's end-use monitoring activities. These actions will improve information sharing and efficiencies to ensure allies and partners are complying with   requirements and to reduce risk of diversion.

(ii) Within   of this order, the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Secretary of War, shall review   ( ) processes and submit a plan to the President through the Assistant to the President for   to reduce and potentially realign the onerous   process, with due consideration to technology security risks.

(iii) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of War, in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall develop a process to provide advanced notice, as appropriate, to allies and partners of upcoming contracting actions and associated deadlines for   and Acceptance implementation.

(iv) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of   shall ensure effective coordination when assessing the impacts of   to the defense industrial base.
