Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Policy

.   is blessed with an abundance of natural resources and is a leader in energy technologies and innovation that are critical to the economic prosperity and national security of the   people, as well as our partners and allies. We must expand all forms of reliable and affordable energy production to drive down inflation, grow our economy, create good-paying jobs, reestablish   leadership in manufacturing, lead the world in artificial intelligence, and restore peace through strength by wielding our commercial and diplomatic levers to end wars across the world. By utilizing our amazing national assets, including our crude oil, natural gas, lease condensates, natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products, uranium, coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the kinetic movement of flowing water, and critical minerals, we will preserve and protect our most beautiful places, reduce our dependency on foreign imports, and grow our economy—thereby enabling the reduction of our deficits and our debt.

It shall be the policy of my Administration to make   energy dominant.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. There is hereby established within   of the President  ).

 . 3

.

Membership

. (a) The Secretary of the   shall serve as  . The Secretary of Energy shall serve as Vice Chair of the  .

(b) In addition to the   and the Vice Chair, the   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of  ;

(ii) the Secretary of the  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Attorney General;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii)  ;

(ix) the Director of  ;

(x)  ;

(xi) the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy;

(xii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xiii) the Assistant to the President for  ;

( ) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

(xv) the Chairman of  ;

(xvi) the Chairman of  ;

(xvii) the Director of  ; and

(xviii) the heads of such other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as the President may, from time to time, designate.

 . 4

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall convene and preside over meetings of the  , in consultation with  , provided that in his absence the Vice Chair shall preside.

(b) The   shall:

(i) advise the President on how best to exercise his authority to produce more energy to make   energy dominant;

(ii) advise the President on improving the processes for permitting, production, generation, distribution, regulation, transportation, and export of all forms of   energy, including critical minerals;

(iii) provide to the President a recommended   to produce more energy that includes long-range goals for achieving energy dominance by cutting red tape, enhancing private sector investments across all sectors of the energy-producing economy, focusing on innovation, and seeking to eliminate longstanding, but unnecessary, regulation;

(iv) advise and assist the President in facilitating cooperation among   and domestic private sector energy partners; and

(v) advise the President on facilitating consistency in energy production policies included in the Strategy developed under subsection (b)(iii) of this section.

(c) In performing the advisory functions listed under subsection (b) of this section, the  , through the  , shall, when appropriate, coordinate with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for  . The functions of the   shall report to  .

(d) Within   of the date of this order, and from time to time thereafter as deemed appropriate by the  , the   shall:

(i) recommend to the President a plan to raise awareness on a national level of matters related to energy dominance, such as the urgency of reliable energy; the improvements in technology achieved through reliable energy sources; the national security concerns with removing reliable and affordable energy sources; the jobs supported by the energy sector; and the regulatory constraints driving up the cost of reliable energy to consumers;

(ii) advise the President regarding the actions each agency can take under existing authorities to prioritize the policy objective of increasing energy production, such as rapidly and significantly increasing electricity capacity; rapidly facilitating approvals for energy infrastructure; approving the construction of natural gas pipelines to, or in, New England,  ,  , and other areas of the country underserved by   natural gas; facilitating the reopening of closed power plants; and bringing   online;

(iii) provide to the President a review of markets most critical to power   homes, cars, and factories with reliable, abundant, and affordable energy;

(iv) advise the President regarding incentives to attract and retain private sector energy-production investments;

(v) advise the President on identifying and ending practices that raise the cost of energy; and

(vi) consult with officials from  , local, and   governments and individuals from the private sector to solicit feedback on how best to expand all forms of energy production.

 . 5

.

Administration

. (a) The   shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out its functions.

(b) Agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the   related to policies that affect energy dominance as the   or, at the  's direction, the Vice Chair, shall reasonably request, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 6

.

Representation on  

. The Secretary of the  , as  , shall serve as a standing member of  .

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
