Executive Order  —Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) ( ), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I,  ,

President of  , find that the sustained influx of illegal aliens and illicit opioids and other drugs has profound consequences on our  , endangering lives and putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, public services, communities, and schools. Since the end of my first term,   ( ) within   has recorded more than three times as many inadmissible encounters nationwide as during my first term.

These challenges threaten the fabric of our society.   members, smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured across our borders and into our communities.   has played a central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote sufficient attention and resources to meaningfully stem the tide of unlawful migration and illicit drugs.

  drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world's leading traffickers of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other illicit drugs, and they cultivate, process, and distribute massive quantities of narcotics that fuel addiction and violence in communities across  . These DTOs collaborate and conspire with transnational cartels and other global partners to smuggle drugs into  , utilizing clandestine airstrips, maritime routes, tunnels, and overland corridors, and both willing and unwilling human couriers.

The   DTOs have an intolerable alliance with the government of  . This alliance endangers the national security of  , and we must eradicate the influence of these dangerous cartels from the bilateral environment. The government of   has afforded safe havens for the cartels to engage in the manufacturing and transportation of illicit drugs, which collectively have led to the overdose deaths of hundreds of thousands of   victims.

  cartels are also implicated in human trafficking and smuggling operations, enabling the illegal migration of millions across our borders. These operations are often tied to organized crime, and they create pathways for cartel activities to expand into  . Furthermore, violent criminals originating from Central and South America easily transit into and through  , and into  , where they cause irreparable harm to our citizens. These dangerous criminals are involved in drug-related violence, gang activity, and other crimes that endanger the safety of   communities.

Immediate action is required to address the national emergency I declared in   (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border of  ), and to finally end the public health crisis caused by opioid use and addiction, which will not happen unless the compliance and cooperation of the government of   is assured.

I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

. (a) As President of  , my highest duty is the defense of the country and its citizens. A Nation without borders is not a Nation at all. I will not stand by and allow our sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to be endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore.

I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave threat to   posed by the influx of illegal aliens and illicit drugs into   in  . Pursuant to the  , I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in that proclamation to cover the failure of   to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs. In addition, this failure to act on the part of the government of   constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside  , to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of  . I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency under the   and   to deal with that threat. This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad   tariffs on articles that are products of   as set forth in this order. In doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of  , and specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat.

 . 2

. (a) All articles that are products of  , as defined by  

notice described in section 2(d) of this order ( 

notice), shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 25 percent ad   rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into   before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to   as specified in  

notice.

(b) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles.

(c) Should the government of   retaliate against   in response to this action through import duties on   exports to   or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this Executive Order to ensure the efficacy of this action.

(d) In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are products of  , the Secretary of   shall determine the modifications necessary to   of   (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the   through notice in  . The modifications made to the   by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, and shall continue in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.

(e) Articles that are products of  , except those that are eligible for admission under "domestic status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are admitted into a   foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on  , except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, must be admitted as "privileged foreign status" as defined in 19   146.41. Such articles will be subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable   subheading in effect at the time of admittance into   foreign trade zone.

(f) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this order.

(g) For avoidance of doubt, duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C.   shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section.
