Executive Order  —Protecting   and Its Citizens From Criminal Actors and Other Public Safety Threats
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including 6 U.S.C. 122(a)(2), it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Policy

. It is the policy of   to protect its welfare and security, and the welfare and security of its citizens, from criminal actors. Such criminal actors may include foreign nationals with criminal histories who have entered or remained in   in violation of the immigration laws of   or who otherwise seek to violate the criminal laws of  . It is also the policy of   to cooperate with trusted foreign governments by sharing information concerning convicted felons on a reciprocal basis for border security and immigration purposes.   ( ) is responsible for safeguarding the borders of   by interdicting persons and goods illegally entering  ; protecting against the entry of dangerous goods, narcotics, and firearms; and detecting, responding to, and interdicting terrorists, drug smugglers, human smugglers, and other persons who seek to harm  . To fulfill these responsibilities, and consistent with the policy described above,   immigration authorities must access criminal history record information ( ) in the custody of Federal criminal justice agencies to the maximum extent permitted by law.

 . 2. Providing   to  

. The Attorney General shall provide   with access, for purposes related to  's screening and vetting missions and to the maximum extent permitted by law, to   available to or maintained by  .

 . 3. Exchanging Felony Conviction Records with   and Other Countries for Border Security and Immigration Purposes

. (a) The Secretary of   may exchange, to the maximum extent permitted by law,   with the border security and immigration authorities of   ( ) countries, countries that have entered into a Preventing and Combating Serious Crime or similar agreement with  , and other trusted allies, under an agreement or arrangement described in subsection (b) of this section. The Secretary of   may provide this information to these countries for the sole purpose of screening travelers and immigrants seeking to enter or stay in the   or other country.

(b) Any exchange of   by the Secretary of   with foreign countries shall be on the basis of reciprocity and under a bilateral or multilateral agreement or arrangement entered into by   that contains appropriate safeguards to protect the privacy of   persons and other individuals consistent with applicable law.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
