Executive Order  —President's  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to establish an advisory council on science and technology, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The   story is one of boundless creativity and bold ambition, driven by an indomitable pioneering spirit that propels exploration and discovery. It is this spirit that illuminated the world with  's lightbulb, carried the   brothers into the skies, and sent   to the moon.  , a new frontier of scientific discovery lies before us, defined by transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and advanced biotechnology. Breakthroughs in these fields have the potential to reshape the global balance of power, spark entirely new industries, and revolutionize the way we live and work. As our global competitors race to exploit these technologies, it is a national security imperative for   to achieve and maintain unquestioned and unchallenged global technological dominance. To secure our future, we must harness the full power of   innovation by empowering entrepreneurs, unleashing private-sector creativity, and reinvigorating our research institutions.

At the heart of scientific progress lies the pursuit of truth. But this foundational principle, which has driven every major breakthrough in our history, is increasingly under threat.  , across science, medicine, and technology, ideological dogmas have surfaced that elevate group identity above individual achievement, enforce conformity at the expense of innovative ideas, and inject politics into the heart of the scientific method. These agendas have not only distorted truth but have eroded public trust, undermined the integrity of research, stifled innovation, and weakened  's competitive edge.

This order establishes the President's   to unite the brightest minds from academia, industry, and government to guide our   through this critical moment by charting a path forward for   leadership in science and technology.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. (a) There is hereby established the President's   (PCAST).

(b) The PCAST shall be composed of not more than 24 members. The Assistant to the President for   ( ) and   shall be members of the PCAST. If also serving as the Director of  , the   may designate the   Chief Technology Officer as a member. The remaining members shall be distinguished individuals and representatives from sectors outside of   appointed by the President. These non-Federal members shall have diverse perspectives and expertise in science, technology, education, and innovation.

(c) The   and   shall serve as   of the PCAST.   may designate up to two Vice Chairs of the PCAST from among the non-Federal members of the PCAST, to support   in the leadership and organization of the PCAST.

 . 3

.

Functions

. (a) The PCAST shall advise the President on matters involving science, technology, education, and innovation policy. The   shall also provide the President with scientific and technical information that is needed to inform public policy relating to the   economy, the   worker, national and homeland security, and other topics.

(b) The PCAST shall meet regularly and shall:

(i) respond to requests from the President or   for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice;

(ii) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of stakeholders, including the research community; the private sector; universities; national laboratories;  , local, and   governments; foundations; and nonprofit organizations;

(iii) serve as the advisory committee identified in section 101(b) of   of   (Public Law 102-194), as amended (15 U.S.C. 5511(b)), in which capacity the PCAST shall be known as the President's  ; and

(iv) serve as the advisory panel identified in section 4 of the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act (Public Law 108-153), as amended (15 U.S.C.  ), in which capacity the PCAST shall be known as  .

(c) The PCAST shall provide advice from the non-Federal sector to   ( ) in response to requests from the  .

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the PCAST with information concerning scientific and technological matters when requested by   and as required for the purpose of carrying out the PCAST's functions.

(b) In consultation with  , the PCAST is authorized to create standing subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to assist the PCAST and provide preliminary information directly to the PCAST.

(c) In order to allow the PCAST to provide advice and analysis regarding classified matters,   may request that members of the PCAST, its standing subcommittees, or ad hoc groups who do not hold a current clearance for access to classified information receive security clearance and access determinations pursuant to Executive Order   of   ( ), as amended, or any successor order.

(d)   shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the PCAST may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations.

(e) Members of the PCAST shall serve without any compensation for their work on the PCAST, but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(f) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the PCAST, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 5

.

Termination

. The PCAST shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 6

.

Revocation

. Executive Order   of   (President's  ), as amended by Executive Order   (  to Other Executive Orders), is hereby revoked.

 . 7

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
