Executive Order  —Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. It is in the national interest to promote the extraordinary heritage of our   and ensure future generations of   citizens celebrate the legacy of our   heroes. The naming of our national treasures, including breathtaking natural wonders and historic works of art, should honor the contributions of visionary and patriotic   in our  's rich past.

 . 2

.

Appointments to  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, each agency head with authority to appoint members to   (Board) pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 364a, shall review their respective appointees and consider replacing those appointees in accordance with applicable law.

(b) The Secretary of the   shall review and consider additional appointments to the   to assist in fulfilling all aspects of this order, subject to all applicable laws.

(c) With respect to all applications for naming and renaming submitted to the newly constituted  , the   shall advance the policy established in section 1 of this order to honor the contributions of visionary and patriotic   and may update its principles, policies, and procedures as needed to achieve this policy.

(d) Where   action is required to establish a renaming in public law, following   approval on renaming, the   shall provide guidance to all relevant Federal agencies to use the  -approved name in the interim in federal documents and achieve consistency across the federal government.

 . 3

.

Renaming of Mount McKinley

. (a) President  , the 25th President of  , heroically led our   to victory in the Spanish-American War. Under his leadership,   enjoyed rapid economic growth and prosperity, including an expansion of territorial gains for the  . President   championed tariffs to protect   manufacturing, boost domestic production, and drive   industrialization and global reach to new heights. He was tragically assassinated in an attack on our  's values and our success, and he should be honored for his steadfast commitment to   greatness.

In  , the country officially honored President   through the naming of North America's highest peak. Yet after  , President  's administration, in  , stripped the   name from federal nomenclature, an affront to President  's life, his achievements, and his sacrifice.

This order honors President   for giving his life for our great Nation and dutifully recognizes his historic legacy of protecting  's interests and generating enormous wealth for all  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through  , reinstate the name "Mount McKinley." The Secretary shall subsequently update   ( ) to reflect the renaming and reinstatement of Mount McKinley. The national park area surrounding Mount McKinley shall retain the name   and  .

(c) The Secretary of the   shall work with   entities and state and local organizations to adopt names for landmarks to honor the history and culture of the   people.

 . 4

.

Gulf of America

. (a) The area formerly known as the Gulf of Mexico has long been an integral asset to our once burgeoning   and has remained an indelible part of  . The Gulf was a crucial artery for  's early trade and global commerce. It is the largest gulf in the world, and   coastline along this remarkable body of water spans over 1,700 miles and contains nearly 160 million acres. Its natural resources and wildlife remain central to  's economy  . The bountiful geology of this basin has made it one of the most prodigious oil and gas regions in the world, providing roughly 14% of our  's crude-oil production and an abundance of natural gas, and consistently driving new and innovative technologies that have allowed us to tap into some of the deepest and richest oil reservoirs in the world. The Gulf is also home to vibrant   fisheries teeming with snapper, shrimp, grouper, stone crab, and other species, and it is recognized as one of the most productive fisheries in the world, with the second largest volume of commercial fishing landings by region in the Nation, contributing millions of dollars to local   economies. The Gulf is also a favorite destination for   tourism and recreation activities. Further, the Gulf is a vital region for the multi-billion-dollar   maritime industry, providing some of the largest and most impressive ports in the world. The Gulf will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping  's future and the global economy, and in recognition of this flourishing economic resource and its critical importance to our  's economy and its people, I am directing that it officially be renamed the Gulf of America.

(b) As such, within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through  , take all appropriate actions to rename as the "Gulf of America"   area bounded on the northeast, north, and northwest by  ,  ,  ,   and   and extending to the seaward boundary with   and   in the area formerly named as the Gulf of Mexico. The Secretary shall subsequently update the   to reflect the renaming of the Gulf and remove all references to the Gulf of Mexico from the  , consistent with applicable law. The   shall provide guidance to ensure all federal references to the Gulf of America, including on agency maps, contracts, and other documents and communications shall reflect its renaming.

 . 5

.

Additional Action

. The Secretary of   may solicit public and intergovernmental input regarding additional patriots to honor, particularly in light of  's semiquincentennial celebration, and shall recommend action to me, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
