Executive Order 14176—Declassification of Records Concerning the Assassinations of President  , Senator  , and the Reverend Dr.  , Jr.
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Policy and Purpose

.   after the assassinations of President  , Senator  , and the Reverend Dr.  , Jr.,   has not released to the public all of its records related to those events. Their families and the   people deserve transparency and truth. It is in the national interest to finally release all records related to these assassinations without delay.

The President   Assassination Records Collection Act of   required all records related to the assassination of President   to be publicly disclosed in full by  , unless the President certifies that: (i) continued postponement is made necessary by an identifiable harm to the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and (ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest in disclosure. President   Assassination Records Collection Act of  , section 5(g)(2)(D),  , 106 Stat. 3443,  , codified at 44 U.S.C.   note.

I previously accepted proposed redactions from executive departments and agencies (agencies) in   and  , but ordered the continued re-evaluation of those remaining redactions.   to the Assassination of President  , 82  .  . 50,307-08 ( );   to the Assassination of President  , 83  .  . 19, 157-58 ( ). In   of  , I also ordered agencies to re-review each of those redactions over   and disclose information that no longer warrants continued withholding under the standard set forth in section 5(g)(2)(D) of the President   Assassination Records Collection Act of  .

President   issued subsequent certifications with respect to these records in  ,  , and  , which gave agencies additional time to review the records and withhold information from public disclosure.   in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President  , 86  .  . 59,599 ( );   in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President  , 87  .  . 77,967 ( );   in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President  , 88  .  . 43,247 ( ).

I have now determined that the continued redaction and withholding of information from records pertaining to the assassination of President   is not consistent with the public interest and the release of these records is long overdue. And although no Act of   directs the release of information pertaining to the assassinations of Senator   and the Reverend Dr.  , Jr., I have determined that the release of all records in   possession pertaining to each of those assassinations is also in the public interest.

 . 2

.

Declassification and Disclosure

. (a) Within   of this order, the Director of   and the Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for   and the Counsel to the President, present a plan to the President for the full and complete release of records relating to the assassination of President  .

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of   and the Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for   and the Counsel to the President, review records related to the assassinations of Senator   and the Reverend Dr.  , Jr., and present a plan to the President for the full and complete release of these records.

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
