Executive Order  —  and Local Failures To Rebuild Los Angeles After Wildfire Disasters
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

.  ,   and   city and county governments failed to contain wildfires that ravaged   and consumed nearly 40,000 acres of homes and businesses. The   and local governments failed to engage in responsible forest management systems out of a misguided commitment to naturalist and climate policies, which increased the severity of the fires. They failed to maintain water distribution and reservoir systems so that these systems would be available and fully functional in case of emergency. They then failed to quickly communicate evacuation warnings and failed to act decisively or cohesively to contain the fire once it started burning. In fact, Mayor   was not in   to respond to the crisis because she was traveling abroad. This marked one of the greatest failures of elected political leadership in   history, from enabling the wildfires to failing to manage them, and it continues   with the abject failure to rebuild.

While   made big promises, debris removal did not actually begin until my Administration, through Executive Order   (Emergency Measures to   in   and Improve Disaster Response in Certain Areas), initiated the fastest debris-removal operation in   history.   completed hazardous-materials sweeps and cleared over 9,500 properties of over 2.6 million tons of debris in  .

But since then,   families and small businesses affected by the wildfires have been forced to continue living in a nightmare of delay, uncertainty, and bureaucratic malaise as they remain displaced from their homes, often without a source of income, while   and local governments delay or prevent reconstruction by approving only a fraction of the permits needed to rebuild.

  has approved numerous individual relief claims to provide financial support directly to owners of homes and businesses and help survivors repair, rebuild, return home, reopen their businesses, and restore their communities. But many homeowners and businesses have been unable to use these funds as they navigate overly burdensome, confusing, and inconsistent permitting requirements, duplicative permitting reviews, procedural bottlenecks, and administrative delays at the city, county, and   levels. Elected leaders have refused to take even the minimum action necessary to allow many of these survivors to move forward and rebuild their lives—the ultimate tragic failure of     to live up to their moral and legal obligations to their citizens. As a result, despite   expeditiously clearing debris and doing its part to support survivors, the actions of   and local authorities have ensured that the vast majority of the tens of thousands of homes and businesses destroyed in the wildfires have not yet been rebuilt  .

In furtherance of the Presidential Declaration of a Major Disaster for   (FEMA–4856–DR), immediate and decisive Federal action is required to ensure that   disaster assistance is delivered and utilized swiftly, effectively, and without obstruction by   and local governments, to accomplish the purposes for which it is allocated, as well as to support the   people who have been devastated by   and   wildfires.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration that federally funded reconstruction projects for homes and businesses in the wildfire-impacted neighborhoods of   and   areas proceed with the maximum speed consistent with public safety, and that Federal assistance not be frustrated by unnecessary, duplicative, or obstructive permitting requirements that prevent families and businesses from rebuilding.

 . 3. Preempting State Permitting Obstacles

. (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary), acting through   ( ), and   ( ) shall each consider promulgating regulations to advance the policies of this order. In particular,     and the Secretary, through  , shall consider promulgating regulations that:

(i) preempt   or local permitting processes, and other similar pre-approval requirements, that each agency has found to have unduly impeded the timely use of Federal emergency-relief funds by homeowners, businesses, or houses of worship in rebuilding such structures following a disaster; and

(ii) replace preempted   or local permitting regimes, or other similar pre-approval requirements, with a requirement that builders self-certify to a Federal designee from each agency that they have complied with all applicable substantive   and local health and safety standards with respect to the structure proposed to be rebuilt using   emergency-relief funds.

(b) The Secretary, through  , and   shall each publish proposed regulations under subsection (a) of this section, if any, within   of the date of this order and final regulations within   of the date of this order. Each agency head shall further consider whether notice and comment is unnecessary   U.S.C. 553 or any other statute.

(c) The Secretary, through  , shall continue to review all repairs and construction activities conducted under this order for compliance with applicable health, safety, and other substantive standards.

 . 4. Expediting Federal Response

. (a)   has already taken action to expedite administrative processes related to water delivery, as detailed in Executive Order   (Emergency Measures to   in   and Improve Disaster Response in Certain Areas). In addition, the heads of relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall seek to use all authorities available under   environmental, historic preservation, natural resource laws, or other similar laws, including   (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), and   (54 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), to expedite waivers, permits, reviews, consultations, or approvals with respect to homes, businesses, or other such structures proposed to be rebuilt using   emergency-relief funds that are required to facilitate Federal response and recovery actions that will advance the policy of this order, consistent with applicable law.

(b) The heads of relevant agencies shall take steps to ensure that the process for evaluating and issuing such waivers, permits, reviews, consultations, or approvals shall be limited to the minimum scope and duration required to expeditiously advance the policy of this order and implement   and   while ensuring public health and safety.

(c) The heads of relevant agencies shall each designate a senior official from their agency to ensure timely execution of these actions without delay.

 . 5. Legislation

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary, through  , and  , in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and   Director of  , shall submit to the President, through the Director of  , legislative proposals that enable   and   to address situations in which   or local governments are not enabling timely recovery after disasters, including through appropriate regulation.

 . 6. Accountability for Use of Taxpayer Dollars

. (a) The Secretary, through  , shall:

(i) within   of the date of this order, determine what amount, if any, of the nearly $3 billion in unspent   ( ) funding granted to  , which was awarded to mitigate hazards, including the threat of future wildfires to the citizens of  , was awarded arbitrarily, capriciously, or contrary to law; and

(ii) within   of the date of this order, conduct a Federal audit of  's use of   funding, including of whether funded projects were completed as approved and on time, whether projected risk reduction matched actual outcomes, and whether   used   funding in a way that demonstrably mitigated the impact of future wildfires on its citizens.

(b) Within   of the completion of the audit described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, the Secretary, through  , shall make administrative determinations in light of the audit's findings and recommendations, and shall enforce such determinations by, where appropriate, imposing future grant conditions, initiating recoupment or recovery actions in accordance with applicable law, or deploying oversight and technical assistance to expedite the administration and use of   funds for individuals, families, and small businesses, to implement this order.

 . 7. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise effect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   related to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was released by   on   and published in  on  .
