Executive Order  —Ending Illegal Discrimination and   Opportunity
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Longstanding Federal civil-rights laws protect individual   from discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. These civil-rights protections serve as a bedrock supporting equality of opportunity for all  . As President, I have a solemn duty to ensure that these laws are enforced for the benefit of all  .

Yet  ,   after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of  , critical and influential institutions of   society, including  , major corporations, financial institutions, the medical industry, large commercial airlines, law enforcement agencies, and institutions of higher education have adopted and actively use dangerous, demeaning, and immoral race- and sex-based preferences under the guise of so-called "diversity, equity, and inclusion" ( ) or "diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility" ( ) that can violate the civil-rights laws of this Nation.

Illegal   and DEIA policies not only violate the text and spirit of our longstanding Federal civil-rights laws, they also undermine our national unity, as they deny, discredit, and undermine the traditional   values of hard work, excellence, and individual achievement in favor of an unlawful, corrosive, and pernicious identity-based spoils system. Hardworking   who deserve a shot at the   Dream should not be stigmatized, demeaned, or shut out of opportunities because of their race or sex.

These illegal   and   policies also threaten the safety of   men, women, and children across the   by diminishing the importance of individual merit, aptitude, hard work, and determination when selecting people for jobs and services in key sectors of   society, including all levels of government, and the medical, aviation, and law-enforcement communities. Yet in case after tragic case, the   people have witnessed first-hand the disastrous consequences of illegal, pernicious discrimination that has prioritized how people were born instead of what they were capable of doing.

  is charged with enforcing our civil-rights laws. The purpose of this order is to ensure that it does so by ending illegal preferences and discrimination.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to protect the civil rights of all   and to promote individual initiative, excellence, and hard work. I therefore order all executive departments and agencies (agencies) to terminate all discriminatory and illegal preferences, mandates, policies, programs, activities, guidance, regulations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and requirements. I further order all agencies to enforce our longstanding civil-rights laws and to combat illegal private-sector   preferences, mandates, policies, programs, and activities.

 . 3

.

Terminating Illegal Discrimination in  

. (a) The following executive actions are hereby revoked:

(i) Executive Order   of   (    Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations);

(ii) Executive Order   of   ( -wide Initiative to   in  );

(iii) Executive Order   (Further Amendments to Executive Order  , Equal Employment Opportunity in  , and Executive Order  , Equal Employment Opportunity); and

(iv) The Presidential Memorandum of   (  Inclusion in  ).

(b) The Federal contracting process shall be streamlined to enhance speed and efficiency, reduce costs, and require Federal contractors and subcontractors to comply with our civil-rights laws. Accordingly:

(i) Executive Order   of   (Equal Employment Opportunity), is hereby revoked. For   from the date of this order, Federal contractors may continue to comply with the regulatory scheme in effect on  .

(ii)   within   shall immediately cease:

(A) Promoting "diversity";

(B) Holding Federal contractors and subcontractors responsible for taking "affirmative action"; and

(C) Allowing or encouraging Federal contractors and subcontractors to engage in workforce balancing based on race, color, sex, sexual preference, religion, or national origin.

(iii) In accordance with Executive Order   of   (Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations), the employment, procurement, and contracting practices of Federal contractors and subcontractors shall not consider race, color, sex, sexual preference, religion, or national origin in ways that violate the Nation's civil rights laws.

(iv) The head of each agency shall include in every contract or grant award:

(A) A term requiring the contractual counterparty or grant recipient to agree that its compliance in all respects with all applicable   anti-discrimination laws is material to the government's payment decisions for purposes of section 3729(b)(4) of title  , United States Code; and

(B) A term requiring such counterparty or recipient to certify that it does not operate any programs promoting   that violate any applicable   anti-discrimination laws.

(c) The Director of   (OMB), with the assistance of the Attorney General as requested, shall:

(i) Review and revise, as appropriate, all Government-wide processes, directives, and guidance;

(ii) Excise references to   and   principles, under whatever name they may appear, from   acquisition, contracting, grants, and financial assistance procedures to streamline those procedures, improve speed and efficiency, lower costs, and comply with civil-rights laws; and

(iii) Terminate all "diversity," "equity," "equitable decision-making," "equitable deployment of financial and technical assistance," "advancing equity," and like mandates, requirements, programs, or activities, as appropriate.

 . 4

.

Encouraging the Private Sector to End Illegal DEI Discrimination and Preferences

. (a) The heads of all agencies, with the assistance of the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action with respect to the operations of their agencies to advance in the private sector the policy of individual initiative, excellence, and hard work identified in section 2 of this order.

(b) To further inform and advise me so that my Administration may formulate appropriate and effective civil-rights policy, the Attorney General, within   of this order, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies and in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy containing recommendations for enforcing Federal civil-rights laws and taking other appropriate measures to encourage the private sector to end illegal discrimination and preferences, including  . The report shall contain a proposed strategic enforcement plan identifying:

(i) Key sectors of concern within each agency's jurisdiction;

(ii) The most egregious and discriminatory   practitioners in each sector of concern;

(iii) A plan of specific steps or measures to deter   programs or principles (whether specifically denominated " " or otherwise) that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences. As a part of this plan, each agency shall identify up to nine potential civil compliance investigations of publicly traded corporations, large non-profit corporations or associations, foundations with assets of 500 million dollars or more,   and local bar and medical associations, and institutions of higher education with endowments over 1 billion dollars;

(iv) Other strategies to encourage the private sector to end illegal   discrimination and preferences and comply with all Federal civil-rights laws;

(v) Litigation that would be potentially appropriate for Federal lawsuits, intervention, or statements of interest; and

(vi) Potential regulatory action and sub-regulatory guidance.

 . 5

.

Other Actions

. Within   of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of   shall jointly issue guidance to all   and local educational agencies that receive Federal funds, as well as all institutions of higher education that receive   grants or participate in the   student loan assistance program under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, 20 U.S.C.  

et seq

., regarding the measures and practices required to comply with

Students for Fair Admissions, Inc.

v.

President and  , 600   181 ( ).

 . 6

.

Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 . 7

.

Scope

. (a) This order does not apply to lawful Federal or private-sector employment and contracting preferences for veterans of the   armed forces or persons protected by  , 20 U.S.C. 107

et seq

.

(b) This order does not prevent   or local governments, Federal contractors, or Federally-funded   and local educational agencies or institutions of higher education from engaging in  -protected speech.

(c) This order does not prohibit persons teaching at a   funded institution of higher education as part of a larger course of academic instruction from advocating for, endorsing, or promoting the unlawful employment or contracting practices prohibited by this order.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
