Executive Order  —Designation of Ansar Allah as a Foreign Terrorist Organization
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (8 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (INA), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. This order sets in motion a process by which  , also known as the  , shall be considered for designation as  , consistent with section 219 of the INA (8 U.S.C.  ).

Supported by  's   (IRGC-QF), which arms and trains terrorist organizations worldwide, the   have fired at   warships dozens of times since  , endangering   men and women in uniform. Since seizing most   population centers by force from the legitimate   government in  , the   have launched numerous attacks on civilian infrastructure, including multiple attacks on civilian airports in  , the deadly   attacks on  , and more than 300 projectiles fired at   since  . The   have also attacked commercial vessels transiting   more than 100 times, killing at least four civilian sailors and forcing some Red Sea maritime commercial traffic to reroute, which has contributed to global inflation.

The  ' activities threaten the security of   civilians and personnel in the Middle East, the safety of our closest regional partners, and the stability of global maritime trade.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to cooperate with its regional partners to eliminate   capabilities and operations, deprive it of resources, and thereby end its attacks on   personnel and civilians,   partners, and maritime shipping in the Red Sea.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, after consultation with the Director of   and the Secretary of the  , submit a report to the President, through  , concerning the designation of   as a foreign terrorist organization consistent with 8 U.S.C.  .

(b) Within   after submitting the report required under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of   shall take all appropriate action, consistent with 8 U.S.C.  , with regard to a designation of   as a terrorist organization.

(c) Following any designation of   as a foreign terrorist organization under 8 U.S.C.  , the Secretary of   and    ) shall jointly conduct a review of the   partners, nongovernmental organizations, and contractors through which   works in  , and identify any entities with a relationship with   that have:

(i) made payments to members of, or governmental entities controlled by,  ; or

(ii) criticized international efforts to counter   while failing to document   abuses sufficiently.

(d) The Administrator of USAID shall take all appropriate action to terminate the projects, grants, or contracts identified under subsection (c) of this section as appropriate.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
