Executive Order  — 
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

.

Purpose and Policy

. The Federal responses to Hurricane Helene and other recent disasters demonstrate the need to drastically improve   (" 's) efficacy, priorities, and competence, including evaluating whether  's bureaucracy in disaster response ultimately harms the agency's ability to successfully respond. Despite obligating nearly $30 billion in disaster aid each of  ,   has managed to leave vulnerable   without the resources or support they need when they need it most.

There are serious concerns of political bias in  . Indeed, at least one former   responder has stated that   managers directed her to avoid homes of individuals supporting the campaign of   for President. And it has lost mission focus, diverting limited staff and resources to support missions beyond its scope and authority, spending well over a billion dollars to welcome illegal aliens.

  deserve an immediate, effective, and impartial response to and recovery from disasters.   therefore requires a full-scale review, by individuals highly experienced at effective disaster response and recovery, who shall recommend to the President improvements or structural changes to promote the national interest and enable national resilience.

 . 2

.

Establishment

. (a) There is hereby established   ("Council").

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than 20 members. The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall be members of the  . The remaining members shall include relevant agency heads and distinguished individuals and representatives from sectors outside of   appointed by the President. These non-Federal members shall have diverse perspectives and expertise in disaster relief and assistance, emergency preparedness, natural disasters,   relationships, and budget management.

(c) The Secretary of   and the Secretary of   shall serve as   of the  .   may designate up to two Vice Chairs of the   from among the non-Federal members of the  , to support   in the leadership and organization of the  .

 . 3

.

Functions

. (a) The   shall advise the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for  , and the Director of  , on the existing ability of   to capably and impartially address disasters occurring within   and shall advise the President on all recommended changes related to   to best serve the national interest.

(b) The   shall meet regularly and shall:

(i) respond to requests from the President, through the Assistant to the President for  , the Assistant to the President for  , the Director of  , or   for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice;

(ii) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of stakeholders, including   affected by natural disasters; the research community; the private sector;  , local, and   governments; foundations; and nonprofit organizations;

(c) The   shall produce a report for the President that includes the following:

(i) An assessment of the adequacy of  's response to disasters during  , including sufficiency of staffing;

(ii) A comparison of the   responses with  , local, and private sector responses—including timeliness of response, supplies provided, efficacy, and services (including communications and electricity) provided—during the same period;

(iii) An account of the commentary and debate about the role and operation of   in our Federal system and about the functioning of disaster relief, assistance, and preparedness in  ;

(iv) The historical background of other periods in the  's history both before   was part of   and before   existed and methods by which disaster aid and relief were then provided;

(v) The traditional role of   and their coordination with   in securing the life, liberty, and property of their citizens in preparation for, during, and after disasters;

(vi) An evaluation of whether   can serve its functions as a support agency, providing supplemental Federal assistance, to the   rather than supplanting   control of disaster relief;

(vii) Other recommended improvements to   in the current statutory structure; and

(viii) An analysis of the principal arguments in the public debate for and against   reform, including an appraisal of the merits and legality of particular reform proposals.

(d) The   shall solicit public comment, including other expert views, to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of ideas.

(e) The   shall hold its first public meeting within   of the date of this order and submit its report to the President within   of the date of the  's first public meeting.

 . 4

.

Administration

. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with information concerning disaster preparedness and relief matters when requested by   and as required for the purpose of carrying out the  's functions.

(b) In consultation with  , the   is authorized to create standing subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to assist the   and provide preliminary information directly to the  .

(c)   shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the   may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations.

(d) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the  , but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(e) Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 5

.

Termination

. The   shall terminate   from the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
