Executive Order  —Celebrating American Greatness With American Motor Racing
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose and Policy

. For  ,   INDYCAR racing has set the pace for motor sports. With speeds topping over 200 miles per hour, the cars and drivers inspire awe and respect in all who watch this quintessentially   sport. It has given us racing legends such as   and  , and continues to thrill every Memorial Day weekend when people travel from across the globe to the   500, the largest single-day sporting event in the world.

INDYCAR racing is a source of pride and entertainment for our  , which is why I am pleased to announce the Freedom 250 Grand Prix in  ,   This race, the first motor race ever to be held in our  's capital near the National Mall, will showcase the majesty of our great city as drivers navigate a track around our iconic national monuments in celebration of  's 250th birthday.

 . 2. Designating  

. Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall designate a route through  ,  , that is suitable for conducting an   street race and that will showcase the majesty of our capital city in celebration of the 250th anniversary of  's independence.

 . 3. Permits and Approvals

. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall take steps to ensure that all permits, approvals, and other authorizations as are necessary to plan, prepare for, and conduct the Freedom 250 Grand Prix are issued and granted as expeditiously as possible. Such steps may include the Secretary of the Interior considering the Freedom 250 Grand Prix to be a "special event"   C.F.R. 7.96(g), as amended by 90

 .  

.   (temporary rule re:  ; America250 Events), if the Secretary of the   deems it necessary and appropriate. The Secretary of   shall use available funds to help facilitate the presentation of the race, consistent with applicable law and as deemed appropriate by the Secretary of  , and, working with and through  , take steps to ensure that unmanned aircraft systems and other means of aerial photography may be utilized by appropriately permitted individuals to enhance the public's enjoyment of the race and to celebrate the beauty of the  's capital without compromising nearby   facilities. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of  , in coordination with the Mayor of  ,  , as needed, shall ensure that any roads, trails, or bridges to be used as part of the race course are properly maintained and capable of being used in such a manner.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
