Executive Order  —The Iron Dome for America
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including my authority as Commander in Chief of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. The threat of attack by ballistic, hypersonic, and cruise missiles, and other advanced aerial attacks, remains the most catastrophic threat facing  .

President   endeavored to build an effective defense against nuclear attacks, and while this program resulted in many technological advances, it was canceled before its goal could be realized. And since   withdrew from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in   and initiated development of limited homeland missile defense, official   homeland missile defense policy has remained only to stay ahead of rogue-nation threats and accidental or unauthorized missile launches.

Over  , rather than lessening, the threat from next-generation strategic weapons has become more intense and complex with the development by peer and near-peer adversaries of next-generation delivery systems and their own homeland integrated air and missile defense capabilities.

 . 2

.

Policy

. To further the goal of peace through strength, it is the policy of   that:

(a)   will provide for the common defense of its citizens and the   by deploying and maintaining a next-generation missile defense shield;

(b)   will deter—and defend its citizens and critical infrastructure against—any foreign aerial attack on the Homeland; and

(c)   will guarantee its secure second-strike capability.

 . 3

.

Implementation

. Within   of this order, the Secretary of   shall:

(a) Submit to the President a reference architecture, capabilities-based requirements, and an implementation plan for the next-generation missile defense shield. The architecture shall include, at a minimum, plans for:

(i) Defense of   against ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles, and other next-generation aerial attacks from peer, near-peer, and rogue adversaries;

(ii) Acceleration of the deployment of   layer;

(iii) Development and deployment of proliferated space-based interceptors capable of boost-phase intercept;

(iv) Deployment of underlayer and terminal-phase intercept capabilities postured to defeat a countervalue attack;

(v) Development and deployment of a custody layer of  ;

(vi) Development and deployment of capabilities to defeat missile attacks prior to launch and in the boost phase;

(vii) Development and deployment of a secure supply chain for all components with next-generation security and resilience features; and

(viii) Development and deployment of non-kinetic capabilities to augment the kinetic defeat of  , hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles, and other next-generation aerial attacks;

(b) Review relevant authorities and organization of   to develop and deploy capabilities at the necessary speed to implement this directive;

(c) Jointly with the Director of  , submit to the President a plan to fund this directive, allowing sufficient time for consideration by the President before finalization of the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget; and

(d) In cooperation with   and  , submit to the President:

(i) An updated assessment of the strategic missile threat to the Homeland; and

(ii) A prioritized set of locations to progressively defend against a countervalue attack by nuclear adversaries.

 . 4

.

  and  

.   continues to cooperate on missile defense with its allies and partners to aid in the defense of ally populations and troops and of forward-deployed   troops. Following the submission to the President of the next-generation missile defense reference architecture under section 3(a) of this order, the Secretary of   shall direct a review of theater missile defense posture and initiatives to identify ways in which   and its allies and partners can:

(a) Increase bilateral and multilateral cooperation on missile defense technology development, capabilities, and operations;

(b) Improve theater missile defenses of forward-deployed   troops and allied territories, troops, and populations; and

(c) Increase and accelerate the provision of   missile defense capabilities to allies and partners.

 . 5

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
