Executive Order  —Establishing a Second Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between   and Certain of Its Employees Represented by Certain Labor Organizations
 
  (2nd Term)

Disputes exist between   and certain of its employees represented by certain labor organizations. The labor organizations involved in these disputes are  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

The disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151 188 (RLA).

An emergency board to investigate and report on these disputes was established on  , by Executive Order   of   (Establishing an Emergency Board to Investigate Disputes Between   and Certain of Its Employees Represented by Certain Labor Organizations). That emergency board terminated upon submission of its report to the President. Subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted by all of the parties.

A party empowered by the   has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the   (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(e) of the   provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint a second emergency board to investigate and report on the disputes.

Now, Therefore

, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 9A of the  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Establishment of  )

. There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  , a   composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on these disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

 . 2. Report

. As provided by section 9A(f) of the  , within   after the creation of the Board, the parties to the disputes shall submit to the   final offers for settlement of the disputes. As provided by section 9A(g) of the  , within   after the submission of final offers for settlement of the disputes, the   shall submit a report to the President setting forth the  's selection of the most reasonable offer.

 . 3.  

. As provided by section 9A(h) of the  , from the time a request to establish the   is made until   after the   submits its report to the President, the parties to the controversy shall make no change in the conditions out of which the disputes arose except by agreement of the parties.

 . 4. Records Maintenance

. The records and files of the   are records of   and upon the  's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of  .

 . 5. Expiration

. The   shall terminate upon the submission of the report to the President provided for in section 2 of this order.

 . 6. Costs of Publication

. The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
