Executive Order  —Additional Measures To Combat Anti-Semitism
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. My Administration has fought and will continue to fight   in   and around the world. On  , I issued Executive Order  , my first Executive Order on  , finding that students, in particular, faced anti-Semitic harassment in schools and on university and college campuses. Executive   provided interpretive assistance on the enforcement of the Nation's civil rights laws to ensure that they would protect     to the same extent to which all other   citizens are protected. The prior administration effectively nullified Executive   by failing to give the terms of the order full force and effect throughout the Government. This order reaffirms Executive Order   and directs additional measures to advance the policy thereof in the wake of the   terrorist attacks of  , against the people of  . These attacks unleashed an unprecedented wave of vile anti-Semitic discrimination, vandalism, and violence against our citizens, especially in our schools and on our campuses.   students have faced an unrelenting barrage of discrimination; denial of access to campus common areas and facilities, including libraries and classrooms; and intimidation, harassment, and physical threats and assault. A joint report by   and the Workforce,  , Oversight and Accountability,  , and   calls   failure to fight   and protect   students "astounding." This failure is unacceptable and ends  .

 . 2

.

Policy

. It shall be the policy of   to combat   vigorously, using all available and appropriate legal tools, to prosecute, remove, or otherwise hold to account the perpetrators of unlawful anti-Semitic harassment and violence.

 . 3

.

Additional Measures to  

. (a) Within   of this order, the head of each executive department or agency (agency) shall submit a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, identifying all civil and criminal authorities or actions within the jurisdiction of that agency, beyond those already implemented under Executive Order  , that might be used to curb or combat  , and containing an inventory and analysis of all pending administrative complaints, as of the date of the report, against or involving institutions of higher education alleging civil-rights violations related to or arising from  , campus  .

(b) The report submitted by the Attorney General under this section shall additionally include an inventory and an analysis of all court cases, as of the date of the report, against or involving institutions of higher education alleging civil-rights violations related to or arising from  , campus   and indicate whether the Attorney General intends to or has taken any action with respect to such matters, including filing statements of interest or intervention.

(c) The Attorney General is encouraged to employ appropriate civil-rights enforcement authorities, such as 18 U.S.C. 241, to combat  .

(d) The report submitted by the Secretary of   under this section shall additionally include an inventory and an analysis of all Title VI complaints and administrative actions, including in K-12 education, related to  —pending or resolved after  —within  

(e) In addition to identifying relevant authorities to curb or combat   generally required by this section, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in consultation with each other, shall include in their reports recommendations for familiarizing institutions of higher education with the grounds for inadmissibility under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3) so that such institutions may monitor for and report activities by alien students and staff relevant to those grounds and for ensuring that such reports about aliens lead, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to investigations and, if warranted, actions to remove such aliens.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
