Executive Order  —Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Policy and Purpose

. My Administration has inaugurated a golden age for   manufacturing and technological dominance. We will pursue bold, large-scale industrial plans to vault   further into the lead on critical manufacturing processes and technologies that are essential to national security, economic prosperity, and scientific leadership. These plans include artificial intelligence (AI) data centers and infrastructure that powers them, including high voltage transmission lines and other equipment. It will be a priority of my Administration to facilitate the rapid and efficient buildout of this infrastructure by easing Federal regulatory burdens.

In addition, my   will utilize federally owned land and resources for the expeditious and orderly development of data centers. This usage will be done in a manner consistent with the land's intended purpose—to be used in service of the prosperity and security of the   people.

 . 2. Definitions

. For purposes of this order:

(a) " " means a facility that requires greater than 100 megawatts ( ) of new load dedicated to   inference, training, simulation, or synthetic data generation.

(b) "Covered Components" means materials, products, and infrastructure that are required to build   or otherwise upon which   depend, including:

(i) energy infrastructure, such as transmission lines, natural gas pipelines or laterals, substations, switchyards, transformers, switchgear, and system protective facilities;

(ii) natural gas turbines, coal power equipment, nuclear power equipment, geothermal power equipment, and any other dispatchable baseload energy sources, including electrical infrastructure (including backup power supply) constructed or otherwise used principally to serve a  ;

(iii) semiconductors and semiconductor materials, such as wafers, dies, and packaged integrated circuits;

(iv) networking equipment, such as switches and routers; and

(v) data storage, such as hardware storage systems, software for data management and protection, and integrated services that work with public cloud providers.

(c) "Covered Component Project" means infrastructure comprising  , or a facility with the primary purposes of manufacturing or otherwise producing  .

(d) "Qualifying Project" means:

(i) a   for which   has committed at least $500 million in capital expenditures as determined by the Secretary of  ;

(ii) a   involving an incremental electric load addition of greater than 100  ;

(iii) a   that protects national security; or

(iv) a   that has otherwise been designated by the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of Energy as a "Qualifying Project".

(e) "Project Sponsor" means the lead sponsor providing financial and other support for  , as determined by the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , or the Secretary of  , as appropriate.

(f) "Superfund Site" means any site where action is being taken pursuant to 42 U.S.C.  , or  .

(g) "Brownfield Site" means a site as defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(39).

 . 3. Encouraging Qualifying Projects

. The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of   ( ) and other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall launch an initiative to provide financial support for  , which could include loans and loan guarantees, grants, tax incentives, and offtake agreements. All relevant agencies shall identify and submit to the Director of OSTP any such relevant existing financial support that can be used to assist  , consistent with the protection of national security.

 . 4. Revocation of Executive Order  

. Executive Order 14141 of   (  States Leadership in Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure), is hereby revoked.

 . 5.  

. (a) Within   of this order, each relevant agency shall identify to   any categorical exclusions already established or adopted by such agency pursuant to   ( ), reliance on and adoption of which by agencies (pursuant to 42 U.S.C.   and 4336c) could facilitate the construction of  .

(b)   shall coordinate with relevant agencies on the establishment of new categorical exclusions to cover actions related to   that normally do not have a significant effect on the human environment. Agencies shall, for purposes of establishing these categorical exclusions, rely on any sufficient basis to do so as each such agency determines.

(c) Consistent with 42 U.S.C. 4336e(10)(B)(iii), loans, loan guarantees, grants, tax incentives, or other forms of Federal financial assistance for which an agency lacks substantial project-specific control and responsibility over the subsequent use of such financial assistance shall not be considered a "major   action" under  . For purposes of this order, Federal financial assistance representing less than 50 percent of total project costs shall be presumed not to constitute substantial Federal control and responsibility.

 . 6. Efficiency and Transparency Through FAST–41

. (a) The Executive Director (Executive Director) of   (FPISC) may, within   of the date that a project is identified to FPISC by a relevant agency, designate a Qualifying Project as a transparency project pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m–2(b)(2)(A)(iii) and section 41003 of    , 129 Stat.  ) (FAST–41). Within   of receiving such agency notification, the Executive Director may publish Qualifying Projects on the Permitting Dashboard established under section 41003(b) of FAST–41, including schedules for expedited review.

(b) In consultation with  , the Executive Director shall expedite the transition of eligible   from transparency projects to FAST–41 "covered projects" as defined by 42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)(A). To the extent that a   does not meet the criteria set forth in 42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)(A)(i) or (iii), FPISC may consider all other available options to designate the project a covered project   U.S.C. 4370m(6)(A)(iv).

 . 7. Streamlining of Permitting Review

. (a) The Administrator of   shall assist in expediting permitting on   and   lands by developing or modifying regulations promulgated under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.  

et seq

.);  , Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.); the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.   et seq.); and other relevant applicable laws, in each case, that impact the development of  .

(b) The Administrator of   shall, consistent with   statutory authorities, expeditiously identify   and Superfund Sites for use by  . As part of this effort, within   of the date of this order,   shall develop guidance to help expedite environmental reviews for qualified reuse and assist   governments and private parties to return such   and Superfund Sites to productive use as expeditiously as possible.

 . 8. Biological and Water Permitting Efficiencies

. (a) Upon identification of sites by the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of Energy as described in section 9 of this order, the action agency, as identified through the process described in the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531–1544) ( ), shall initiate consultation under section 7 of the   with the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , or both with respect to common construction activities for   that will occur over   at a programmatic level. The Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall utilize programmatic consultation to ensure timely and efficient completion of such consultation.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of the  , acting through the Assistant Secretary of  , shall review the nationwide permits issued under section 404 of the Clean Water Act of   (33 U.S.C.  ) and section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of   (33 U.S.C. 403) to determine whether an activity-specific nationwide permit is needed to facilitate the efficient permitting of activities related to  .

 . 9.  

. (a)   and   shall, after consultation with industry and further in consultation with   as to   to which relevant authorizations shall be granted, offer appropriate authorizations for sites identified by the Secretary of the   or the Secretary of  , as applicable and appropriate for the relevant uses, consistent with 42 U.S.C.  , 42 U.S.C.  , 43 U.S.C.  

et seq

., and all other applicable law.

(b) The Secretary of   shall, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.   or other applicable law and as and when the Secretary of   deems it necessary or desirable, identify suitable sites on military installations for   infrastructure uses and competitively lease available lands for   to support   energy, workforce, and mission needs, subject to security and force protection considerations.

 . 10. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
