Executive Order  —Extending the Modification of the Reciprocal Tariff Rates
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I found that conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat, and to deal with that threat I imposed additional ad   duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate.

Section 4(c) of Executive Order   provides that, "[s]hould any trading partner take significant steps to remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with   on economic and national security matters, I may further modify the [Harmonized Tariff Schedule of  ] to decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this order."

In Executive Order   of   ( ), I determined that it was necessary and appropriate to temporarily suspend, for    , application of the additional ad   rate of duties for products of the foreign trading partners listed in   I to Executive Order  , except with respect to   ( ), and to instead impose on articles of all such trading partners an additional ad   rate of duty of 10 percent, subject to the terms of Executive Order  , as amended. I made this determination in light of the "sincere intentions" and willingness of these trading partners to address the national and economic security concerns of  . This   suspension expires at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

I have determined, based on additional information and recommendations from various senior officials, including information on the status of discussions with trading partners, that it is necessary and appropriate to extend the suspension effectuated by Executive Order   until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . With respect to the  , the separate tariff suspension effectuated by Executive Order 14298 of   ( ), remains in effect and is unaltered by this order.

 . 2.  

. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS) shall be modified, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.   daylight time on  , by suspending headings 9903.01.43 through 9903.01.62 and 9903.01.64 through 9903.01.76, and subdivisions (v)(xiii)(1)–(9) and (11)–(57) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the  , until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 . 3. Implementation

. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , as applicable, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for  , and the Chair of the International Trade Commission, are directed and authorized to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order, consistent with applicable law, including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or notices in   and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance, and to employ all powers granted to the President by  , as may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement this order.

 . 4. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
