Executive Order 14320—Promoting the Export of the American AI Technology Stack
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose

. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a foundational technology that will define the future of economic growth, national security, and global competitiveness for   to come.   must not only lead in developing general-purpose and frontier   capabilities, but also ensure that  , standards, and governance models are adopted worldwide to strengthen relationships with our allies and secure our continued technological dominance. This order establishes a coordinated national effort to support the     industry by promoting the export of full-stack   technology packages.

 . 2. Policy

. It is the policy of   to preserve and extend   leadership in   and decrease international dependence on   technologies developed by our adversaries by supporting the global deployment of  -origin AI technologies.

 . 3. Establishment of  

. (a) Within   of the date of this order, the Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary of   and the Director of   ( ), establish and implement the American AI Exports Program (Program) to support the development and deployment of   full-stack   export packages.

(b) The Secretary of   shall issue a public call for proposals from industry-led consortia for inclusion in the  . The public call shall require that each proposal must:

(i) include a full-stack   technology package, which encompasses:

(A) AI-optimized computer hardware (e.g., chips, servers, and accelerators), data center storage, cloud services, and networking, as well as a description of whether and to what extent such items are manufactured in  ;

(B) data pipelines and labeling systems;

(C) AI models and systems;

(D) measures to ensure the security and cybersecurity of   models and systems; and

(E) AI applications for specific use cases (e.g., software engineering, education, healthcare, agriculture, or transportation);

(ii) identify specific target countries or regional blocs for export engagement;

(iii) describe a business and operational model to explain, at a high level, which entities will build, own, and operate data centers and associated infrastructure;

(iv) detail requested Federal incentives and support mechanisms; and

(v) comply with all relevant   export control regimes, outbound investment regulations, and end-user policies, including chapter 58 of title  , United States Code, and relevant guidance from   within  .

(c)   shall require proposals to be submitted no later than 90 days after the public call for proposals is issued, and shall consider proposals on a rolling basis for inclusion in the  .

(d) The Secretary of Commerce shall, in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , evaluate submitted proposals for inclusion under the  . Proposals selected by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , will be designated as priority   export packages and will be supported through priority access to the tools identified in section 4 of this order, as consistent with applicable law.

 . 4. Mobilization of Federal Financing Tools

. (a)   ( ), established in  , chaired by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and  , and as described in section 708 of   of   (Title VII of Division J of Public Law 116–94) ( ), shall coordinate mobilization of   financing tools in support of priority   export packages.

(b) I delegate to   and the Director of OSTP the authority under section 708(c)(3) of   to appoint senior officials from their respective executive departments and agencies to serve as members of the  .

(c) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the  , shall be responsible for:

(i) developing and executing a unified   strategy to promote the export of   AI technologies and standards;

(ii) aligning technical, financial, and diplomatic resources to accelerate deployment of priority   export packages under the  ;

(iii) coordinating   participation in multilateral initiatives and country-specific partnerships for   deployment and export promotion;

(iv) supporting partner countries in fostering pro innovation regulatory, data, and infrastructure environments conducive to the deployment of   systems;

(v) analyzing market access, including technical barriers to trade and regulatory measures that may impede the competitiveness of   offerings; and

(vi) coordinating with     to facilitate, to the extent permitted under applicable law, investment in   small businesses to the development of   AI technologies and the manufacture of   infrastructure, hardware, and systems.

(d) Members of the   shall deploy, to the maximum extent permitted by law, available Federal tools to support the priority export packages selected for participation in the  , including direct loans and loan guarantees (12 U.S.C. 635); equity investments, co-financing, political risk insurance, and credit guarantees (22 U.S.C.  ); and technical assistance and feasibility studies (22 U.S.C. 2421(b)).

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
