Executive Order  —Adjusting Certain Delegations Under the Defense Production Act
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose. This order amends Executive Order   of   (National Defense Resources Preparedness). Executive Order   delegates certain authorities of the President under the Defense Production Act (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), to specified executive department and agency (agency) heads. This order also clarifies section 2(a) of Executive Order   (Declaring a National Energy Emergency).

 . 2. Amendment to Executive Order  . Section 203 of Executive Order   is hereby amended by striking the phrase "Secretary of Commerce" and inserting, in lieu thereof, "Secretary of   and the Secretary of  , each of whom may exercise such delegated authority independently of the other".

 . 3. Clarifying Section 2(a) of Executive Order  . For the avoidance of doubt, an agency head need only recommend action to the President under section 2(a) of Executive Order   when the authority to take the recommended action is vested in the President alone and has not been delegated. Section 2(a) of Executive Order   does not require an agency head to make a recommendation to the President when the agency head has authority to take the action by virtue of a delegation pursuant to Executive Order   or other Presidential delegation.

 . 4.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .
