Executive Order  —Addressing Remedial Action by  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

 .

On  , I signed Executive Order   (Addressing Risks from  ) to address certain issues related to  ,  ,   ( ). I noted that "[g]lobal law firms have for   played an outsized role in undermining the judicial process and in the destruction of bedrock   principles."   is one of many law firms that have participated in this harmful activity.

 , though,   indicated that it will engage in a remarkable change of course. Specifically,   has acknowledged the wrongdoing of its former partner  , and it has agreed to a number of policy changes to promote equality, justice, and the principles that keep our   strong, including: adopting a policy of political neutrality with respect to client selection and attorney hiring; taking on a wide range of pro bono matters representing the full political spectrum; committing to merit-based hiring, promotion, and retention, instead of "diversity, equity, and inclusion" policies; dedicating the equivalent of $40 million in pro bono legal services during my term in office to support causes including assisting our  's veterans, fairness in the justice system, and combating  ; and other similar initiatives.

This development should give   hope. If the legal profession dedicates a fraction of its energy to bringing justice to local communities, unleashing hard-working businesses, strengthening the   family, and unifying our  , all   will benefit.

 . 2

.

Revocation.

I hereby revoke Executive Order   of   (Addressing Risks from  ).

 . 3

.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
