Executive Order 14226—Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

.

Amendment

. Executive Order   of   (Imposing Duties to Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), as amended by Executive Order   of   (Progress on the Situation at Our Northern Border), is further amended by revising section 2(h) to read as follows:

"(h) Duty-free

de minimis

treatment under 19 U.S.C.   is available for otherwise eligible covered articles described in subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section. Such duty free

de minimis

treatment shall cease to be available for such otherwise eligible covered articles upon notification by the Secretary of   to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and collect tariff revenue applicable pursuant to subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section for covered articles otherwise eligible for

de minimis

treatment."

Sec. 2

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
