Executive Order  —Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1

.

 

. Automotive production is a major source of   employment and innovation and is integral to   economic and national security. The   automotive industry as currently structured often trades substantial volumes of automotive parts and components across our borders in the interest of bringing supply chains closer to North America. In order to minimize disruption to   automotive industry and automotive workers, it is appropriate to adjust the tariffs imposed on articles of   in Executive Order   (Imposing Duties to Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border).

 . 2

.

Product Coverage

. (a) Articles that are entered free of duty as a good of   under the terms of general note 11 to   of   (HTSUS), including any treatment set forth in subchapter XXIII of chapter 98 and subchapter   of chapter 99 of the  , as related to the Agreement between  ,  , and  , shall not be subject to the additional ad   rate of duty described in section 2(a) or section 2(b) of Executive Order  .

(b) The additional rate of duty on potash that is not subject to subsection (a) of this section shall be reduced to 10 percent in lieu of 25 percent.

(c) The modifications set out in this section shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 3

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
