Executive Order  —Improving the Safety and Security of Biological Research
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Dangerous gain-of-function research on biological agents and pathogens has the potential to significantly endanger the lives of   citizens. If left unrestricted, its effects can include widespread mortality, an impaired public health system, disrupted   livelihoods, and diminished economic and national security.

  allowed dangerous gain-of-function research within   with insufficient levels of oversight. It also actively approved, through  , Federal life-science research funding in   and other countries where there is limited   oversight or reasonable expectation of biosafety enforcement.

This recklessness, if unaddressed, may lead to the proliferation of research on pathogens (and potential pathogens) in settings without adequate safeguards, even after COVID–19 revealed the risk of such practices.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to ensure that   federally funded research benefits   citizens without jeopardizing our  's security, strength, or prosperity. My Administration will balance the prevention of catastrophic consequences with maintaining readiness against biological threats and driving global leadership in biotechnology, biological countermeasures, biosecurity, and health research.

 . 3

.

Stop Dangerous Gain-of-Function Research

. (a) The Director of   ( ), in coordination with the Director of   and the Assistant to the President for   (APNSA), and in consultation with the Secretary of   and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) identified by the Director of  , shall establish guidance for the heads of relevant agencies, to the extent consistent with the terms and conditions of the funding, to immediately:

(i) end Federal funding of dangerous gain-of-function research conducted by foreign entities in countries of concern (e.g.,  ) pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6627(c), or in other countries where there is not adequate oversight to ensure that the countries are compliant with   oversight standards and policies; and

(ii) end Federal funding of other life-science research that is occurring in countries of concern or foreign countries where there is not adequate oversight to ensure that the countries are compliant with   oversight standards and policies and that could reasonably pose a threat to public health, public safety, and economic or national security, as determined by the heads of relevant agencies.

(b) The Director of  , in coordination with the Director of   and the APNSA, and in consultation with the Secretary of   and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall establish guidance for the Secretary of   and the heads of other relevant agencies with respect to suspension of federally funded dangerous gain-of-function research, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant research funding, at least until the completion of the policy called for in section 4(a) of this order. Heads of agencies shall report any exception to a suspension to the Director of   for review in consultation with the APNSA and the heads of relevant agencies.

 . 4

.

 

. (a) Within   of this order, the Director of  , pursuant to 42 U.S.C.   and in coordination with the APNSA and the heads of relevant agencies, shall revise or replace the 2024 "

United States Government Policy for Oversight of Dual Use Research of Concern and   with Enhanced Pandemic Potential

" to:

(i) strengthen top-down independent oversight; increase accountability through enforcement, audits, and improved public transparency; and clearly define the scope of covered research while ensuring   remains the global leader in biotechnology, biological countermeasures, and health research;

(ii) incorporate enforcement mechanisms, including those described in section 7 of this order, into   funding agreements to ensure compliance with all Federal policies governing dangerous gain-of-function research; and

(iii) provide for review and revision at least every 4 years, or as appropriate.

(b) Within   of the date of this order, the Director of  , in coordination with the APNSA and the heads of relevant agencies, shall revise or replace the  

"Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis Screening"

(Framework) to ensure it takes a commonsense approach and effectively encourages providers of synthetic nucleic acid sequences to implement comprehensive, scalable, and verifiable synthetic nucleic acid procurement screening mechanisms to minimize the risk of misuse. The heads of all agencies that fund life-science research shall ensure that synthetic nucleic acid procurement is conducted through providers or manufacturers that adhere to the updated Framework. To ensure compliance, the updated Framework shall incorporate the enforcement mechanisms described in section 7 of this order. The Framework shall be reviewed and revised  , or as appropriate.

 . 5

.

Manage Risks Associated with Non-federally Funded Research

. Within   of the date of this order, the Director of  , in coordination with the Director of  , the APNSA, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall develop and implement a strategy to govern, limit, and track dangerous gain-of-function research across   that occurs without   funding and other life-science research that could cause significant societal consequences. This strategy shall include actions to achieve comprehensive, scalable, and verifiable nucleic acid synthesis screening in non-federally funded settings. Any gaps in authorities necessary to achieve the goals of this strategy shall be addressed in a legislative proposal to be sent to the President, through the Director of   and the APNSA, within   of the date of this order.

 . 6

.

Increase Accountability and Public Transparency of Dangerous Gain-of-Function Research

. The Director of  , in coordination with the APNSA and the heads of relevant agencies, shall ensure that the revised policy called for in section 4(a) of this order includes a mechanism whereby research institutions that receive   funding must report dangerous gain-of-function research, and to the maximum extent permitted by law, include research that is supported by non-Federal funding mechanisms. The reporting mechanism shall provide a publicly available source of information about research programs and awards identified pursuant to this section, including, where permitted by law, those that have been stopped or suspended pursuant to sections 3(a) and 3(b) of this order, and all future programs and awards that are covered by the updated policy developed in section 4(a) of this order. This reporting shall be conducted in a way that does not compromise national security or legitimate intellectual property interests of subject institutions.

 . 7

.

Future Enforcement Terms

. The Secretary of   and the heads of other relevant agencies shall, consistent with existing laws and regulations, include in every life-science research contract or grant award:

(a) a term requiring the contractual counterparty or grant recipient to agree that its compliance in all respects with the terms of this order and any applicable regulations promulgated by the contracting or grant-offering agency is material to the  's payment decisions for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 3729(b)(4);

(b) a term requiring such counterparty or recipient to certify that it does not operate, participate in, or fund any dangerous gain-of-function research or other life-science research in foreign countries that could cause significant societal consequences or generate unnecessary national security risks, and that does not comply with this order and the policies ordered herein;

(c) a term stating that a violation of the terms of this order or any applicable regulations promulgated by the contracting or grant-offering agency by any grant recipient may be considered a violation of such term by the recipient's employer or institution; and

(d) a term stating that any grant recipient, employer, or institution found to be in violation of the terms of this order or any applicable regulations promulgated by the contracting or grant-making agency may be subject to immediate revocation of ongoing   funding, and up to a   period of ineligibility for Federal life-sciences grant funds offered by   and other relevant agencies.

 . 8

.

Definitions

. For the purposes of this order, "dangerous gain-of-function research" means scientific research on an infectious agent or toxin with the potential to cause disease by enhancing its pathogenicity or increasing its transmissibility. Covered research activities are those that could result in significant societal consequences and that seek or achieve one or more of the following outcomes:

(a) enhancing the harmful consequences of the agent or toxin;

(b) disrupting beneficial immunological response or the effectiveness of an immunization against the agent or toxin;

(c) conferring to the agent or toxin resistance to clinically or agriculturally useful prophylactic or therapeutic interventions against that agent or toxin or facilitating their ability to evade detection methodologies;

(d) increasing the stability, transmissibility, or the ability to disseminate the agent or toxin;

(e) altering the host range or tropism of the agent or toxin;

(f) enhancing the susceptibility of a human host population to the agent or toxin; or

(g) generating or reconstituting an eradicated or extinct agent or toxin.

 . 9

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for this order's publication in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
