Executive Order  —Keeping Promises to   and  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Purpose and Policy. Our Nation's security, prosperity, and freedom would not be possible without our veterans. Many service members paid the ultimate sacrifice. Many others bear visible and invisible wounds from their service. Too many veterans are homeless in  . Each veteran deserves our gratitude.

Yet   has not always treated veterans like the heroes they are. During the previous administration, unaccountable bureaucrats treated them shamefully, failing veterans when they needed help most and betraying the taxpayers who rightfully expect better.

The story of   (VA) Medical Center is indicative of this failure. More than one hundred years ago, Senator   and     generously donated hundreds of acres of land that they owned in   on the condition that it be used to house disabled veterans. The campus once featured a chapel,  , 1,000-seat theater, and housed about 6,000 veterans, but   has since allowed this crown jewel of veteran care to deteriorate over  .

  (Department) leased parts of the property to a private school, private companies, and the baseball team of  ,  , sometimes at significantly below-market prices. As of  , there were approximately 3,000 homeless veterans in  , more than in any other city in the country and accounting for about 10 percent of all of  's homeless veterans. Many of these heroes live in squalor in   infamous "skid row."

During my first term, I signed legislation to increase accountability and expand benefits and choices for veterans in accessing care, and my second term will build on those efforts. Accountability will return to the  . Veterans around the   will have more choices in care, benefits, and services. The   campus in   will become   with facilities and resources to help our veterans earn back their self-sufficiency.

 . 2. Establishing  . The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall take all appropriate action to:

(a) designate a   on   in which homeless veterans in the   metropolitan area and around the   can seek and receive the care, benefits, and services to which they are entitled;

(b) work with other municipalities and   facilities to ensure that homeless veterans outside the   metropolitan area who want to avail themselves of   are provided the means to do so;

(c) in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of any other relevant executive departments or agencies, ensure that funds that may have been spent on housing or other services for illegal aliens are redirected to construct, establish, and maintain  ;

(d) work to restore self-sufficiency and the warrior ethos among homeless veterans through any guidance, requirements, or services needed to ensure that homeless veterans can access housing, receive substance abuse or addiction treatment, and return to productive work and community engagement; and

(e) within   of the date of this order, present an action plan to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, to meet these directives and restore the capacity to house up to 6,000 homeless veterans at   by  .

 . 3.  . The Secretary of   shall, in consultation with the Secretary, use vouchers to support homeless veterans in the   metropolitan area and around the Nation with respect to this effort.

 . 4. Restoring Accountability at  . The Secretary shall take the following steps to restore accountability and excellent service at  (a) take appropriate action against individuals who have committed misconduct, making full use of and in accordance with   and Whistleblower Protection Act of   (Public Law 115-41); and

(b) investigate and take steps to rectify the previous administration's decision to rehire and reinstate back pay for employees previously fired for misconduct and direct such savings back toward care, benefits, and services for veterans, in accordance with all applicable laws.

 . 5. Providing Choices and Excellence to  . The Secretary shall take steps to increase the excellence of and options for care, benefits, and services for veterans including:

(a) within   of the date of this order, submitting a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, with a plan to reduce wait times for   appointments that explores options like expanding office hours, offering   appointments, and increasing the use of virtual healthcare options;

(b) within   of the date of this order, directing a feasibility study at   and within   of this order, submitting to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, an action plan to expand services to support a full-service medical center in   so that it is no longer the only   in the contiguous   without such a center; and

(c) in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, developing a strategy to improve the delivery and quality of the  's healthcare services in a more efficient and effective manner to support veterans; the strategy shall initially prioritize implementation of actions to reduce access times and improve service delivery, to include options for offering treatment to veterans at select military treatment facilities and military beneficiaries at   facilities with appropriate reimbursement.

 . 6.  . (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for this order's publication in  .

 

 ,

 .
