Executive Order  —Ordering the Reform of  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

.

Purpose

. Abundant energy is a vital national- and economic-security interest. In conjunction with domestic fossil fuel production, nuclear energy can liberate   from dependence on geopolitical rivals. It can power not only traditional manufacturing industries but also cutting-edge, energy-intensive industries such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing.

 ,   authorized the construction of 133 since-completed civilian nuclear reactors at 81 power plants. Since  ,   ( ) has authorized only a fraction of that number; of these, only two reactors have entered into commercial operation. The   charges applicants by the hour to process license applications, with prolonged timelines that maximize fees while throttling nuclear power development. The   has failed to license new reactors even as technological advances promise to make nuclear power safer, cheaper, more adaptable, and more abundant than ever.

This failure stems from a fundamental error: Instead of efficiently promoting safe, abundant nuclear energy, the   has instead tried to insulate   from the most remote risks without appropriate regard for the severe domestic and geopolitical costs of such risk aversion. The   utilizes safety models that posit there is no safe threshold of radiation exposure and that harm is directly proportional to the amount of exposure. Those models lack sound scientific basis and produce irrational results, such as requiring that nuclear plants protect against radiation below naturally occurring levels. A myopic policy of minimizing even trivial risks ignores the reality that substitute forms of energy production also carry risk, such as pollution with potentially deleterious health effects.

Recent events in Europe, such as the nationwide blackouts in   and  , underscore the importance of my  's focus on dispatchable power generation—including nuclear power—over intermittent power. Beginning  , my Administration will reform the  , including its structure, personnel, regulations, and basic operations. In so doing, we will produce lasting   dominance in the global nuclear energy market, create tens of thousands of high-paying jobs, and generate  -led prosperity and resilience.

 . 2

.

Policy

. It is the policy of   to:

(a) Reestablish   as the global leader in nuclear energy;

(b) Facilitate increased deployment of new nuclear reactor technologies, such as Generation III+ and   reactors, modular reactors, and microreactors, including by lowering regulatory and cost barriers to entry;

(c) Facilitate the expansion of   nuclear energy capacity from approximately 100 GW in   to 400 GW by  ;

(d) Employ emerging technologies to safely accelerate the modeling, simulation, testing, and approval of new reactor designs;

(e) Support the continued operation of, and facilitate appropriate operational extensions for, the current nuclear fleet, as well as the reactivation of prematurely shuttered or partially completed nuclear facilities; and

(f) Maintain   leading reputation for nuclear safety.

 . 3

.

Reforming the  's Culture

. The   has mandated that the  's "licensing and regulation of the civilian use of radioactive materials and nuclear energy be conducted in a manner that is efficient and does not unnecessarily limit—(1) the civilian use of radioactive materials and deployment of nuclear energy; or (2) the benefits of civilian use of radioactive materials and nuclear energy technology to society." Accelerating Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for Clean Energy Act of 2024, Public Law 118–67,  . 501(a). Just as the   directed, the  's mission shall include facilitating nuclear power while ensuring reactor safety. When carrying out its licensing and related regulatory functions, the   shall consider the benefits of increased availability of, and innovation in, nuclear power to our economic and national security in addition to safety, health, and environmental considerations.

 . 4

.

Reforming the  's Structure

. (a) The current structure and staffing of the   are misaligned with the  's directive that the   shall not unduly restrict the benefits of nuclear power. The   shall, in consultation with the  's   (as defined in Executive Order   (Establishing and Implementing the President's " ")), and consistent with its governing statutes, reorganize the   to promote the expeditious processing of license applications and the adoption of innovative technology. The   shall undertake reductions in force in conjunction with this reorganization, though certain functions may increase in size consistent with the policies in this order, including those devoted to new reactor licensing. The   shall also create a dedicated team of at least 20 officials to draft the new regulations directed by section 5 of this order.

(b) The personnel and functions of   on Reactor Safeguards ( ) shall be reduced to the minimum necessary to fulfill  's statutory obligations. Review by   of permitting and licensing issues shall focus on issues that are truly novel or noteworthy.

 . 5

.

Reforming and Modernizing the  's Regulations

. The  , working with its  ,  , and other executive departments and agencies as appropriate, shall undertake a review and wholesale revision of its regulations and guidance documents, and issue notice(s) of proposed rulemaking effecting this revision within   of this order. The   shall issue final rules and guidance to conclude this revision process within   of this order. In conducting this wholesale revision, the   shall be guided by the policies set forth in section 2 of this order and shall in particular:

(a) Establish fixed deadlines for its evaluation and approval of licenses, license amendments, license renewals, certificates of compliance, power uprates, license transfers, and any other activity requested by a licensee or potential licensee, as directed under  , rather than the nonbinding "generic milestone schedules" guidelines the   has already adopted. Those deadlines shall be enforced by fixed caps on the  's recovery of hourly fees. The deadlines shall include: (1) a deadline of   for final decision on an application to construct and operate a new reactor of any type, commencing with the first required step in the regulatory process, and (2) a deadline of   for final decision on an application to continue operating an existing reactor of any type, commencing with the first required step in the regulatory process. The regulations should not provide for tolling those deadlines except in instances of applicant failure, and must allow a reasonably diligent applicant to navigate the licensing process successfully in the time allotted. Moreover, these are maximum time periods; the   shall adopt shorter deadlines tailored to particular reactor types or licensing pathways as appropriate.

(b) Adopt science-based radiation limits. In particular, the   shall reconsider reliance on the linear no-threshold ( ) model for radiation exposure and the "as low as reasonably achievable" standard, which is predicated on  . Those models are flawed, as discussed in section 1 of this order. In reconsidering those limits, the   shall specifically consider adopting determinate radiation limits, and in doing so shall consult with   (DOD),   ( ), and  .

(c) Revise, in consultation with  ,   regulations governing  's compliance with   to reflect the  's   amendments to that statute and the policies articulated in sections 2 and 5 of Executive Order   ( ).

(d) Establish an expedited pathway to approve reactor designs that the DOD or the   have tested and that have demonstrated the ability to function safely.   review of such designs shall focus solely on risks that may arise from new applications permitted by   licensure, rather than revisiting risks that have already been addressed in the   or   processes.

(e) Establish a process for high-volume licensing of microreactors and modular reactors, including by allowing for standardized applications and approvals and by considering to what extent such reactors or components thereof should be regulated through general licenses.

(f) Establish stringent thresholds for circumstances in which the   may demand changes to reactor design once construction is underway.

(g) Revise the Reactor Oversight Process and reactor security rules and requirements to reduce unnecessary burdens and be responsive to credible risks.

(h) Adopt revised and, where feasible, determinate and data-backed thresholds to ensure that reactor safety assessments focus on credible, realistic risks.

(i) Reconsider the regulations governing the time period for which a renewed license remains effective, and extend that period as appropriate based on available technological and safety data.

(j) Streamline the public hearings process.

 . 6

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)   shall provide funding for publication of this order in  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
