Executive Order 14358—    Between   and  
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. In Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), I found that conditions reflected in large and persistent     goods trade deficits, including the consequences of those deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of   that has its source in whole or substantial part outside  . I declared a national emergency with respect to that threat, and to deal with that threat, I imposed additional

ad  

duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate.

In Executive Order   of   (Amendment to Reciprocal Tariffs and Updated Duties as Applied to Low-Value Imports From  ), and Executive Order 14266 of   ( ), I raised the applicable

ad  

duty rate for imports of   ( ) established in Executive Order  , in recognition of the  's retaliation against   in response to the actions taken to address the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

Subsequently,   entered into discussions with the   to address the lack of trade reciprocity in our economic relationship and   resulting national and economic security concerns. Accordingly, in Executive Order 14298 of   ( ), and Executive Order   of   (Further Modifying Reciprocal Tariff Rates To Reflect Ongoing Discussions With  ), I determined that it was necessary and appropriate to address the emergency declared in Executive Order   by suspending application of the heightened

ad  

duties imposed on the   under Executive Order  , as amended, and to instead impose on articles of the   an additional

ad  

rate of duty of 10 percent. During the suspension,   continued to have discussions with the   to address the lack of trade reciprocity in   economic relationship with the   and   resulting national and economic security concerns.

Following my meeting with President   of   on  , in  ,   and the   reached a historic and monumental deal on economic and trade relations ( ). Under the Arrangement, the   has committed to, among other things, postpone and effectively eliminate the  's current and proposed coercive global export controls on rare earth elements and other critical minerals, and address   retaliation against   semiconductor manufacturers and other major companies in the semiconductor supply chain. The   has also committed to purchase   agricultural exports integral to the economy and general welfare of  , including soybeans, sorghum, and logs. And the   has committed to suspend or remove many retaliatory actions against  , including suspending tariffs on a vast swath of   agricultural products until  , and extending the  's market-based tariff exclusion process for   imports until  .

 , in turn, committed to, among other things, maintain the suspension of heightened reciprocal tariffs on imports of the   until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

In my judgment, the   will help remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and address   economic and national security concerns. The   will reduce   trade deficit, boost the economy of  , and address the consequences of   trade deficit by, among other things, ensuring that   has access to materials vital to national defense, the energy sector, and other aspects of   economy and national security; strengthening the agricultural infrastructure of  ; and strengthening the manufacturing and defense industrial base of  .

Accordingly, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order   by implementing the Arrangement between   and the  . Therefore, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to continue the suspension of the heightened reciprocal tariffs on imports of the   until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 2. Implementation

. Heading 9903.01.63 and subdivision (v)(xvii)(10) of   note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   shall continue to be suspended until 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on  .

 . 3. Monitoring and Recommendations

. (a) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , in consultation with the Secretary of   and any other officials they deem appropriate, shall continue to monitor the conditions underlying the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , including   trade deficit, the lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers,   trading partners' economic policies that suppress domestic wages and consumption imports, the strength of our domestic manufacturing base, the strength of our defense industrial base, and any other relevant factors. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and   Representative shall, from time to time, update me on the status of these conditions. In particular, the Secretary of the   and   Representative shall update me on the status and progress of the  's implementation of its commitments under the Arrangement.

(b) Should the   fail to implement its commitments under the Arrangement, I may modify this order as necessary to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

(c) The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for  , shall continue to inform me of any circumstance that, in their opinion, might indicate the need for further action and shall continue to recommend to me additional action that, in their opinion, will more effectively deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  .

 . 4. Delegation

. Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and   are directed and authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules, regulations, or guidance, and to employ all powers granted to the President, including those granted by  , as may be necessary to implement and effectuate this order. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , consistent with applicable law, may redelegate any of these functions within their respective department or agency. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 5. Severability

. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision of this order to any individual or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

 . 6. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive

department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
