Executive Order  — 
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and consistent with chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as  ), it is hereby ordered:

Section 1

. Each advisory committee listed below is continued until  .

(a) Committee for the Preservation of  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(b) President's Commission on  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(c) President's  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(d)  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(e)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(f)  /AIDS; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(g) President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(h)  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(i) President's  , and  ; Executive Order  , as amended ( ).

(j) Interagency Task Force on  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(k) State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector (SLTPS) Policy  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(l) Bears Ears National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 9558 of  , as amended ( ).

(m)  ; Proclamation 9559 of   ( ).

(n) Avi Kwa Ame National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 10533 of March 21, 2023 ( ).

(o)    -Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 10606 of August 8,   ( ).

(p) Religious Liberty Commission; Executive Order   ( ).

(q)  ; Proclamation 10881 of January 14,   ( ).

(r)    ; Proclamation 10882 of   ( ).

(s)  ; Executive Order  , as amended (Environmental Protection Agency).

(t) President's   Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Executive Order   ( ).

(u) President's  ; Executive Order   ( ).

(v) Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation 6920 of  , as amended ( ).

 . 2

. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated after each committee, in accordance with the regulations, guidelines, and procedures established by  .

 . 3

. Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order  , are hereby superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

 . 4

. This order shall be effective  .

 . 5. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
