Executive Order  —Implementing  –Japan Agreement
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ) (section 232), section 604 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

Section 1. Background

. On  , I announced a framework agreement between   and   (Agreement), which lays the foundation for a new era of   trade relations grounded in principles of reciprocity and our shared national interests. The   establishes a tariff framework that levels the playing field for   producers and accounts for   national security needs. In my judgment, the   is necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order   (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual  ), as amended, and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security found in   (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into  ), as amended; Proclamation 9705 of   (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), as amended; Proclamation 9888 of   (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into  ), as amended; and   (Adjusting Imports of Copper Into  ). The Agreement will reduce the   trade deficit, boost the economy of  , and address the consequences of   trade deficit, including by strengthening the manufacturing and defense industrial base of  .

Under the Agreement,   will apply a baseline 15 percent tariff on nearly all   imports entering  , alongside separate sector-specific treatment for automobiles and automobile parts; aerospace products; generic pharmaceuticals; and natural resources that are not naturally available or produced in  . This new tariff framework, combined with expanded   exports and investment-driven production, will help reduce the trade deficit with   and restore greater balance to the overall   trade position.

 , meanwhile, will provide   manufacturing, aerospace, agriculture, food, energy, automobile, and industrial goods producers with breakthrough openings in market access across key sectors. Specifically,   is working toward an expedited implementation of a 75 percent increase of   rice procurements within the Minimum Access rice scheme and purchases of   agricultural goods, including corn, soybeans, fertilizer, bioethanol (including for sustainable aviation fuel), as well as other   products, in amounts totaling $8 billion per year.   is also working to accept for sale in    -manufactured and  -safety-certified passenger vehicles without additional testing. Separately,   will purchase  –made commercial aircraft, as well as   defense equipment.

Critically, unlike any other agreement in   history,   has agreed to invest $550 billion in  . These investments—which will be selected by  —will generate hundreds of thousands of   jobs, expand domestic manufacturing, and secure   prosperity for generations.

In my judgment, I determine that the following actions are consistent with the national interest of   and are necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as amended, and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security found in  , as amended; Proclamation 9705, as amended; Proclamation 9888, as amended; and  .

 . 2. General Tariffs

. (a) The additional

ad  

rate of duty applicable to products of   shall be determined by a product's current

ad valorem

(or

ad  

equivalent) rate of duty under column 1 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTSUS) ("Column 1 Duty Rate"). For a product of   with a Column 1 Duty Rate in the   that is less than 15 percent, the sum of its Column 1 Duty Rate and the additional

ad  

rate of duty pursuant to this order shall be 15 percent. For a product of   with a Column 1 Duty Rate that is at least 15 percent, the additional rate of duty pursuant to this order shall be zero percent. Treatment of specific or compound duty rates shall be identical to the treatment provided to products of   as outlined in Executive Order 14326 of   (Further Modifying the Reciprocal Tariff Rates). The duties described in this subsection shall apply in lieu of the additional

ad  

duties previously imposed on products of   under Executive Order  , as amended.

(b) Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, the terms of Executive Order  , as amended, shall continue to apply to products of  .

(c) The Secretary of   (Secretary), in consultation with  ; the Secretary of  , acting through the Commissioner of   ( ); and the Chair of the United States International Trade Commission ( ), shall determine whether modifications to the   are necessary or appropriate to effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in  .

(d) The tariffs set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall apply retroactively to products of   entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  . Any refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable laws and  's standard procedures for such refunds.

(e) The Secretary may issue rules, regulations, guidance, and procedures to carry out the provisions of this section, including rules for determining what are "products of  " for purposes of this section.

 . 3. Aerospace

. (a) With respect to products of   that fall under  , except for unmanned aircraft, the tariffs imposed through the following Presidential actions and subsequent amendments to those actions shall no longer apply, as of the date of publication of  

notice described in subsection (b) of this section:

(i) Executive Order  , as amended;

(ii)  , as amended;

(iii) Proclamation 9705, as amended; and

(iv)  .

(b) Within   of the date of publication of this order in  , the Secretary, in consultation with the Chair of the   and  , shall publish a notice in   modifying the   consistent with this section.

(c) The Secretary may issue rules, regulations, guidance, and procedures to carry out the provisions of this section, including rules for determining what are "products of  " for purposes of this section.

 . 4.  . (a) As of the date of publication of the   notice described in subsection (b) of this section, in lieu of the additional section 232

ad  

duties imposed on products of   in Proclamation 10908 of   (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into  ), as amended, the additional

ad  

rate of duty applicable to an automobile or automobile part that is a product of   and subject to duties under Proclamation 10908, as amended, shall be determined by the product's Column 1 Duty Rate. For a product of   with a Column 1 Duty Rate that is less than 15 percent, the sum of its Column 1 Duty Rate and the additional automobile or automobile part section 232

ad  

rate of duty pursuant to this order shall be 15 percent. For a product of   with a Column 1 Duty Rate that is at least 15 percent, the additional automobile or automobile part section 232

ad  

rate of duty imposed shall be zero percent.

(b) Within   of the date of publication of this order in  , the Secretary, in consultation with the Chair of the   and  , shall publish a notice in  

modifying the   consistent with this section.

(c) The Secretary may issue rules, regulations, guidance, and procedures to carry out the provisions of this section, including rules for determining whether automobiles and automobile parts are "products of  " for purposes of this section.

 . 5. Products Not Subject to Reciprocal Tariffs

. (a) To implement the terms of the Agreement, the Secretary is authorized to modify the reciprocal tariff rate imposed under Executive Order  , as amended, to zero percent for products of   that are natural resources unavailable (or unavailable at sufficient scale to satisfy domestic demand) in  , generic pharmaceuticals, generic pharmaceutical ingredients, and generic pharmaceutical chemical precursors.

(b) In determining when and for which products to modify the reciprocal tariff rate to zero percent, the Secretary shall act in a manner consistent with the national interests of  ; the purposes of this order; the need to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , as amended; and the need to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security that I found pursuant to section 232. The Secretary shall also consider factors he deems appropriate, including the scope and nature of the commitments of   under the Agreement; the scope and nature of the commitments of   under the Agreement; the actions taken by   to implement its commitments under the  ; and the actions taken by   to implement its commitments under the Agreement.

 . 6. Monitoring and Modifications

. (a) The Secretary shall monitor the progress of  's implementation of its commitments under the Agreement and shall, from time to time, update me on the status of  's implementation.

(b) Should   fail to implement its commitments under the Agreement, I may modify this order as necessary to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order  , as amended, and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security found in  , as amended; Proclamation 9705, as amended; Proclamation 9888, as amended; and  .

 . 7. Delegation

. (a) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary and the Secretary of   are directed and authorized to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this order—including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or through notices in  and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance—and to employ all powers granted to the President, including those granted by   and section 232, as may be necessary to implement and effectuate this order.

(b) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Chair of the  , shall determine whether additional modifications to the   are necessary to effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in  . The Secretary of   shall consult with any senior officials she deems appropriate.

(c) Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary and the Secretary of   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within their respective department or agency.

(d) All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

 . 8. Interaction With Other Presidential Actions

. Any provision of previous proclamations and   that is inconsistent with the actions directed in this order is superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

 . 9. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
