Executive Order  —Saving TikTok While Protecting National Security
 
  (2nd Term)

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. Background

.   from   (the "Act") (Public Law 118–50,  . H) regulates "foreign adversary controlled applications," specifically those operated by   and any other subsidiary of its  -based parent company,  , on national security grounds.

Section 2(a) of the Act prohibits entities from distributing, maintaining, or updating certain defined foreign adversary controlled applications within the territory of   by providing (1) services for such distribution, maintenance, or updates by means of an online mobile application store or other marketplace; or (2) internet hosting services to enable the distribution, maintenance, or updating of such applications. Section 2(g) of the Act defines "foreign adversary controlled application" to include websites, desktop applications, mobile applications, and augmented or immersive technology applications operated directly or indirectly by  ,  , or certain subsidiaries. Under section 2(a), the  's prohibitions with respect to these entities became effective on  . On  , I issued Executive Order   (  from   to  ), delaying the Act's enforcement until  . On  , I issued Executive Order   (Extending  ), further delaying the Act's enforcement until  . On  , I issued Executive Order   (Further Extending  ), further delaying the Act's enforcement until  . Finally, on  , I issued Executive Order   (Further Extending  ), further delaying the Act's enforcement until  .

Section 2(c) of the Act further empowers the President to determine, through an interagency process, that   has undergone a "qualified divestiture," removing the  's prohibitions. To achieve a "qualified divestiture,"   must execute a transaction that would result in the application no longer being controlled by a foreign adversary and that would preclude formerly affiliated entities from maintaining an "operational relationship" with the application's   operations. The Act describes "operational relationship" to include "cooperation with respect to the operation of a content recommendation algorithm" and an "agreement with respect to data sharing."

A plan has been presented to me to undergo a qualified divestiture of  's   operations, as outlined in a framework agreement (Framework Agreement). Under this Framework Agreement,  's   application will be operated by a newly established joint venture based in  . It will be majority-owned and controlled by   persons and will no longer be controlled by any foreign adversary, since   and its affiliates will own less than 20 percent of the entity, with the remainder being held by certain investors (Investor Parties). This new joint venture will be run by a new board of directors and subject to rules that appropriately protect  ' data and our national security.

Accordingly, I have determined that the proposed divestiture would allow the millions of   who enjoy   every day to continue using it while also protecting national security.

 . 2. Determination

. (a) Under the Act, the President's determination that a divestiture is a "qualified divestiture" must occur through an "interagency process." As delegated and directed by me, the Vice President has led this interagency process in cooperation and consultation with  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  . This process has included, among other things, significant interagency deliberations and consultations, numerous briefings by informed experts and national security officials, and extensive negotiations with outside parties. This interagency process has reviewed and made recommendations to me with respect to all aspects of the proposed divestiture.

(b) Having completed the interagency process contemplated in the Act, I have determined the following:

(i) The   application is a social media platform, centered around short video clips, used by about 170 million  . More than simply providing entertainment, many   content creators rely on the   application for their livelihood and many   businesses rely on it for their advertising.

(ii) The   passed the Act in response to concerns from   national security community that the   application is under the control of a foreign adversary.

(iii) The divestiture proposed in the Framework Agreement resolves these national security concerns and complies with the Act because it removes the   application and certain other applications from the "control" of a foreign adversary and precludes any "operational relationship" between a formerly affiliated entity controlled by a foreign adversary and the new joint venture.

(A) First, the divestiture removes the   application and certain other applications from the control of a foreign adversary, as defined under the Act, because, among other things, the new joint venture would be based in   and less than 20 percent of the joint venture would be owned or controlled by foreign adversary entities or persons.

(B) Second, the divestiture puts the operation of the algorithms and code, as well as content-moderation decisions, under the control of the new joint venture.

(C) Third, the divestiture prohibits the storage of sensitive   user data in a manner that would place such data under the control of a foreign adversary and requires such data be stored in a cloud environment run by an   company.

(D) Fourth, the divestiture includes intense monitoring of software updates, algorithms, and data flows by   trusted security partners, and it requires all recommendation models, including algorithms, that use   user data to be retrained and monitored by those trusted security partners.

(iv) These safeguards would protect the   people from the misuse of their data and the influence of a foreign adversary, while also allowing the millions of   viewers, creators, and businesses that rely on the   application to continue using it.

(c) Based on these findings, I further determine that the divestiture of the applications outlined in  , once its implementation agreements are executed, is a "qualified divestiture" under the Act, including with respect to the   applications, the Lemon8 application, the   applications, any other application or website duly operated by the new joint venture, and their associated or affiliated websites.

 . 3. Action

. (a) To permit the contemplated divestiture to be completed, the Attorney General shall not take any action on behalf of   to enforce the Act for   from the date of this order. During this period,   shall take no action to enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for any noncompliance with the Act, including for distributing, maintaining, or updating (or enabling the distribution, maintenance, or updating of) any foreign adversary controlled application as defined in the Act. In light of this direction, even after the expiration of the above-specified period,   shall not take any action to enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for any conduct that occurred during the above-specified period or any period prior to the issuance of this order, including the period of time from  , to the issuance of this order.

(b) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to issue written guidance to implement the provisions of subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The Attorney General shall issue a letter to appropriate providers stating that there has been no violation of the Act and that there is no liability for any conduct that occurs during the   period specified in subsection (a) of this section, as well as for any conduct from the effective date of the Act until the issuance of this order.

(d) Because of the national security interests at stake and because section 2(d) of the Act vests the sole authority for investigations and enforcement of the Act in the Attorney General, attempted enforcement by the   or private parties represents an encroachment on the powers of the Executive. The Attorney General shall exercise all available authority to preserve and defend the  's exclusive authority to enforce the Act, including the President's determination of a qualified divestiture.

(e) The Attorney General or the Attorney General's designee shall serve as   representative under the Framework Agreement. The Attorney General shall receive any information from the new joint venture, trusted security partners, or any other party from whom information is provided pursuant to   and this order on behalf of  . Trusted security partners may also share information with other   officials.

 . 4. Amendment and Revocation

.     (  Under the Protecting Americans from  ), is hereby revoked. As described in this order, I have determined that the divestiture outlined in   constitutes a "qualified divestiture" under the Act and resolves the national security concerns the Act addresses.

I further determine that:

(a) The Order of   (Regarding the Acquisition of Musical.ly by  ) ( ), expressly reserved my authority to issue further orders with respect to  ,  , Musical.ly in  , and   as shall in my judgment be necessary to protect the national security. The threatened impairment to the national security described in   can be adequately mitigated if, after, or in conjunction with, the execution of   implementation agreements,   in   (CFIUS) enters into an agreement with certain Investor Parties that ensures the alignment of the economic incentives of such Investor Parties with compliance with the terms of   to protect national security.

(b) The agreement described in subsection (a) of this section also resolves any national security concern under section 721 of the Defense Production Act of   (50 U.S.C. 4565) (section 721) arising from the acquisition of   by   as modified by the divestiture outlined in the Framework Agreement.

(c) On the basis of the findings set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, considering the factors described in subsection (f) of section 721, as appropriate, and pursuant to my authority under applicable law, including section 721, I hereby order that:

(i) Section 2(b) of   is amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The prohibition in subsection (a) of this section shall cease to be in effect if   in   (CFIUS) executes an agreement with certain investors, consistent with   of   (Saving TikTok While Protecting National Security).".

(ii) Section 2(g) of   is redesignated as section 2(c) and amended to read as follows in its entirety: "Without limitation on the exercise of authority by any agency under other provisions of law, the Attorney General, in consultation with  , is authorized to implement measures the Attorney General deems necessary and appropriate to verify compliance with the agreement described in subsection (b) of this section.".

(iii) Sections 2(d) and 2(e) of   are stricken, and sections 2(f), 2(h), and 2(i) of   are redesignated as sections 2(d), 2(e), and 2(f), respectively.

 . 5. Reservation

. I hereby reserve my authority to issue further orders with respect to this matter as shall in my judgment be necessary to protect the national security.

 . 6. General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
