113 SRES 195 ATS: To authorize testimony and representation In the Matter of the Proposed Discipline of Laura Block Lower.
U.S. Senate
2013-07-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 195
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED
STATES
July 15, 2013
Mr. Reid
(for himself
and
Mr. McConnell
) submitted the
following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
To authorize testimony and representation
In the Matter of the Proposed Discipline of Laura Block
Lower
.
Whereas, in the Matter of the Proposed
Discipline of Laura Block Lower, Case No. 2012–SWP–LIC–445, pending before the
Montana Board of Social Work Examiners and Professional Counselors, the
licensee has requested the deposition of Siobhan Gilmartin, an employee in the
state office of Senator Jon Tester;
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and
704(a)(2) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 2 U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and
288c(a)(2), the Senate may direct its counsel to represent employees of the
Senate with respect to any subpoena, order, or request for testimony relating
to their official responsibilities;
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of
the United States and Rule XI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, no evidence
under the control or in the possession of the Senate may, by the judicial or
administrative process, be taken from such control or possession but by
permission of the Senate;
Whereas, when it appears that evidence
under the control or in the possession of the Senate may promote the
administration of justice, the Senate will take such action as will promote the
ends of justice consistent with the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore,
be it
That Siobhan Gilmartin is authorized to
provide testimony in the Matter of the Proposed Discipline of Laura Block
Lower, except concerning matters for which a privilege should be
asserted.
2.
The Senate Legal Counsel is authorized to
represent Siobhan Gilmartin in connection with the production of testimony
authorized in section one of this resolution.
