113 SRES 182 ATS: Congratulating the American Dental Hygienists’ Association on the 100th anniversary of the profession of dental hygiene and commending its work to improve the oral health of the people of the United States.
U.S. Senate
2013-06-21
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 182
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 21, 2013
Mr. Cardin
(for himself,
Ms. Collins
,
Mr. Durbin
,
Mr.
Franken
,
Mr. Harkin
,
Mr. King
, and
Mr. Brown
) submitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the American Dental
Hygienists’ Association on the 100th anniversary of the profession of dental
hygiene and commending its work to improve the oral health of the people of the
United States.
Whereas the first dental hygiene education program was
established in 1913 and early graduates worked in schools providing direct
access to oral health care to school children;
Whereas the American Dental Hygienists’ Association is the
largest national organization representing the more than 150,000 licensed
dental hygienists in the United States;
Whereas, in order to become licensed as a dental
hygienist, an individual must graduate from one of the 335 accredited dental
hygiene education programs in the United States and successfully complete a
national written exam and a State or regional clinical exam;
Whereas, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the
dental hygiene profession is one of the fastest growing health care
professions, with employment of dental hygienists expected to grow 38 percent
between 2010 and 2020;
Whereas dental hygienists are prevention specialists who
understand how the connection between oral health and total health can prevent
disease, treat problems while they are still manageable, conserve critical
health care dollars, and save lives;
Whereas new research continues to demonstrate that oral
health is a vital element of overall health;
Whereas dental caries (more commonly known as tooth decay)
are the single most common chronic disease of childhood, 5 times more common
than asthma;
Whereas nearly 48,000,000 people in the United States live
in areas without enough dental practitioners;
Whereas less than 40 percent of children enrolled in
Medicaid receive at least one preventive dental service each year and this
percentage varies widely among the States;
Whereas the Department of Health and Human Services
estimates that more than 9,000 new dental practitioners are needed to address
the dental workforce shortage in underserved areas;
Whereas the American Dental Hygienists’ Association
represents, empowers, develops, and supports dental hygienists;
Whereas the American Dental Hygienists’ Association works
to improve access to oral health care services, which are essential to the
health of the people of the United States;
Whereas the Center for Lifelong Learning of the American
Dental Hygienists’ Association seeks to advance the study of dental hygiene
through educational opportunities; and
Whereas the American Dental Hygienists’ Association
advocates in support of Federal oral health programs, expanding access to care
for underserved populations, optimizing the dental workforce, and maximizing
coverage for oral health services: Now, therefore, be it
That the Senate—
(1)
congratulates the
American Dental Hygienists’ Association on the 100th anniversary of the
profession of dental hygiene;
(2)
commends the
American Dental Hygienists’ Association for its work to improve the oral health
of the people of the United States, a fundamental part of overall health and
well-being;
(3)
recognizes dental
hygienists across the United States who volunteer their time and resources to
further their profession and to increase access to oral health care services;
and
(4)
commends the
dental hygiene profession on its centennial celebration.
