1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pregnant Students’ Rights Act
.
2.
Notice of pregnant student rights, accommodations, and resources
Section 485 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1092
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(n)
Pregnant Students’ Rights, Accommodations, and Resources
(1)
In general
Each institution of higher education participating in any program under this title shall carry out the information dissemination activities described in
paragraph (3)
for prospective and enrolled students (including those attending or planning to attend less than full time) regarding the information described in
paragraph (2)
on the rights of, and resources (including protections and accommodations) for, pregnant students to carry a baby to term and students who may become pregnant while enrolled at such institution of higher education to carry a baby to term.
(2)
Information content
The information described in this paragraph is the following:
(A)
A list of resources on campus and in the community that exist to help a pregnant student in carrying the baby to term and caring for the baby after birth.
(B)
Information about the accommodations available to help a pregnant student carry the baby to term and parent the baby after birth.
(C)
Information on how to file a complaint with—
(i)
the Department of Education, if a student believes there was a violation by the institution of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
) on account of such student’s determination to carry a baby to term; and
(ii)
the institution, if a student believes the student has been discriminated against in violation of such title IX on account of the student’s determination to carry a baby to term.
(3)
Information dissemination activities
The information dissemination activities described in this paragraph shall include—
(A)
an email to each enrolled student at least once each academic year; and
(B)
the provision of information—
(i)
in student handbooks, if any;
(ii)
at each orientation for enrolled students;
(iii)
at student health or counseling centers, if any; and
(iv)
on the publicly available website of the institution of higher education.
(4)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the Secretary to require the dissemination of additional information, or establish additional rights, beyond the information and rights included in this subsection.
.
