1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Regulation Decimation Act
.
2.
Repeal of regulations required before issuance of a new rule
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(2)
Major rule
The term
major rule
has the meaning given that term in section 804 of title 5, United States Code.
(3)
Rule
The term
rule
has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
(4)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each territory or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
(b)
Requirement for rule
An agency may not issue a rule unless such agency has repealed 10 or more rules described in subsection (e) that, to the extent practicable, are related to the rule.
(c)
Requirement for major rule
(1)
Repeal required
An agency may not issue a major rule unless—
(A)
such agency has repealed 10 or more rules described in subsection (e) that, to the extent practicable, are related to the major rule; and
(B)
the cost of the new major rule is less than or equal to the cost of the rules repealed.
(2)
Certified cost
For any rule issued in accordance with paragraph (1), the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget must have certified that the cost of the new major rule is equal to or less than the cost of the rules repealed.
(d)
Publication required
Any rule repealed under subsection (b) or (c) shall be published in the Federal Register.
(e)
Applicability
This section—
(1)
applies to any rule or major rule that imposes a cost or responsibility on a nongovernmental person or a State or local government; and
(2)
shall not apply to any rule or major rule—
(A)
that relates to the internal policy or practice of an agency or procurement by the agency; or
(B)
that is being revised to be less burdensome to decrease requirements imposed by the rule or cost of compliance.
(f)
Review of agency rules
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each agency shall submit to Congress and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a report that includes a review of each rule of the agency that identifies whether that rule is costly, ineffective, duplicative, or outdated, including a list of any other unnecessary regulatory restriction of the agency that is costly, ineffective, duplicative, or outdated.
(g)
Report on rules
Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report on the number of rules in effect and the status of the reduction of rules over the previous 5 years.
