1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair Allocation of Interstate Rates Act
.
2.
Rates and charges
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (
16 U.S.C. 824d
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Prohibition on allocation of certain costs
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
Covered policy
The term
covered policy
means a policy of a State, including any policy of a local political entity of a State.
(B)
Covered transmission facility
The term
covered transmission facility
means any facility, line, equipment, or system used for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce that is planned, constructed, or operated in whole or in part to implement a covered policy.
(2)
Prohibition
Except as provided in paragraph (3), a transmission provider providing electric service to consumers in 2 or more States may not allocate costs for a covered transmission facility to a consumer served by that transmission provider if—
(A)
the basis for construction or implementation of the covered transmission facility is, in whole or in part, to implement a covered policy of a State; and
(B)
the consumer is not a resident of the State the covered policy of which is the basis for constructing or implementing the covered transmission facility.
(3)
Exception
A transmission provider providing electric service to consumers in 2 or more States may allocate costs for a covered transmission facility to a consumer described in paragraph (2)(B) if the State in which that consumer is a resident, or a designated public official of that State, expressly consents to such allocation of costs.
(4)
Presumptions
It shall be presumed that—
(A)
the benefits of a covered transmission facility accrue solely to the cost causers of that covered transmission facility;
(B)
any consumer who is a resident of a State that implements a covered policy that is, in whole or in part, the basis for constructing or implementing a covered transmission facility is a cost causer for purposes of subparagraph (A); and
(C)
any consumer that does not reside in the State described in subparagraph (B) is not a cost causer for purposes of subparagraph (A).
(5)
Implementation
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall issue such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement this subsection.
.
