1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Workforce Development Modernization Act
.
2.
One-stop centers
Section 121(e) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3151(e)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
1 physical center in each local area of the State; and
and inserting
1 physical or virtual center in each local area of the State, or at 1 or more physical or virtual centers shared by adjacent local areas and not less than 1 such center in each other local area of the State;
;
(B)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
at the end;
(C)
in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(E)
may locate a physical or virtual center described in subparagraph (A) at a public institution of higher education.
;
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking
, the employment service
and all that follows and inserting
, in each State that has a physical one-stop center, the employment service offices in that State shall be colocated with the physical one-stop centers in that State.
;
(3)
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3); and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Relationships with local areas and States
For purposes of applying this Act in a situation in which 2 adjacent local areas share a physical or virtual one-stop center, a reference in this Act to a one-stop center that is in a local area or State shall be considered to be a reference to a one-stop center for that local area or State, respectively.
(6)
Virtual center
In this subsection, the term
virtual
, used with respect to a one-stop center, means a terminal or other equipment that provides access to each of the programs, services, and activities described in paragraph (1).
.
3.
Conforming amendment
Section 3(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act (
29 U.S.C. 49b(d)
) is amended by striking
, employment service
and all that follows and inserting
, in each State that has a physical one-stop center, the employment service offices in that State shall be colocated with the physical one-stop centers in that State.
.
