1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Understanding Basic English Requirements Act of 2025
or the
UBER Act
.
2.
English proficiency and other driver requirements for ride share contract
eligibility
(a)
Requirements
(1)
In general
The head of an executive agency may not award an agreement or a contract with any transportation network company or shared-use mobility company for services provided in the continental United States or Hawaii unless each driver who will be performing work under the agreement or contract—
(A)
is at least 21 years old;
(B)
can read and speak English sufficiently to converse with the general public, law enforcement, and other officials, understand highway traffic signs, respond to official inquiries, and make entries on reports and records;
(C)
can, by reason of experience, training, or both, safely operate the type of vehicle the driver drives;
(D)
has a currently valid driver's license issued only by one State or jurisdiction; and
(E)
has successfully completed a driver's road test.
(2)
Exception for American Sign Language
The requirement under paragraph (1)(B) does not apply to drivers who are deaf or hearing impaired and use American Sign Language.
(b)
Compliance certification and debarment
A transportation network company or shared-use mobility company shall be required, for purposes of eligibility for an agreement or contract described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a), to certify to the head of the executive agency that all drivers for the company who will be performing work under such agreement or contract meet the requirements set forth in subsection (a)(1). Any company found to not be in compliance with such certification shall be debarred from receiving Federal contracts for a period of 5 years.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Executive agency
The term
executive agency
has the meaning given the term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.
(2)
Shared-use mobility company
The term
shared-use mobility company
means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other licensed and operating entity that provides transportation services that are shared among users, including taxis, limos, bikesharing, ridesharing (such as carpooling and vanpooling), ridesourcing, scooter sharing, or shuttle services.
(3)
Transportation network company
The term
transportation network company
means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other licensed and operating entity that uses a digital network to connect a transportation network company (TNC) rider to a TNC driver who provides a prearranged ride. A TNC may not control, direct, or manage the personal vehicle or the TNC driver who connects to its digital network, except where agreed to by written contract.
