1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans National Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act
.
2.
Pilot program to furnish hyperbaric oxygen therapy to a veteran with traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress disorder
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall implement a pilot program to furnish HBOT to a veteran who has a traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress disorder through a health care provider described in section 1703(c)(5) of title 38, United States Code (in this section referred to as the
pilot program
).
(b)
Locations
The Secretary shall select two Veterans Integrated Service Networks of the Department of Veterans Affairs in which to operate the pilot program.
(c)
Accreditation required
The Secretary shall ensure that any medical facility at which a veteran receives HBOT under the pilot program is accredited by—
(1)
the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations;
(2)
the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society; or
(3)
another appropriate organization that has expertise and objectivity comparable to that of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations or the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society.
(d)
Funding
(1)
In general
There is in the general fund of the Treasury a fund to be known as the
VA HBOT Fund
(in this section referred to as the
Fund
).
(2)
Sole source of funds
The sole source of amounts deposited into the Fund shall be donations received by the Secretary for the express purpose of providing HBOT under the pilot program.
(3)
Availability
Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Secretary without fiscal year limitation to pay for HBOT under the pilot program.
(e)
Termination
The pilot program and the Fund shall terminate on the day that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
HBOT defined
In this section, the term
HBOT
means hyperbaric oxygen therapy provided to a patient with a medical device—
(1)
approved by the Food and Drug Administration; or
(2)
issued an investigational device exemption by the Food and Drug Administration.
3.
Comptroller General report on use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives an update to the report of the Comptroller General published on December 18, 2015, and titled
Research on Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy to Treat Traumatic Brain Injury and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
(GAO–16–154).
(b)
Elements
The update required under subsection (a) shall include an assessment by the Comptroller General of clinical trials conducted since the publication of the report specified in such subsection—
(1)
regarding the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder; and
(2)
by—
(A)
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
(B)
the Secretary of Defense; and
(C)
private entities.
4.
Extension of certain limits on payments of pension
Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
November 30, 2031
and inserting
October 30, 2034
.
