1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Building Out Optimized Space Testing for Engines Act
or the
BOOST for Engines Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(2)
NASA
The term
NASA
means the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
3.
Rocket engine test infrastructure
(a)
Modernization program
The Administrator shall continue to carry out a program to modernize rocket propulsion test infrastructure at NASA facilities—
(1)
to increase capabilities;
(2)
to enhance safety;
(3)
to support propulsion development and testing; and
(4)
to foster the improvement of Government and commercial space transportation and exploration.
(b)
Projects
Projects funded under the program described in subsection (a) may include—
(1)
infrastructure and other facilities and systems relating to rocket propulsion test stands and rocket propulsion testing;
(2)
enhancements to test facility capacity and flexibility; and
(3)
such other projects as the Administrator considers appropriate to meet the goals described in that subsection.
(c)
Requirements
In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Administrator shall—
(1)
prioritize investments in projects that enhance test and flight certification capabilities for large thrust-level atmospheric and altitude engines and engine systems, and multi-engine integrated test capabilities;
(2)
continue to make underutilized test facilities available for commercial use on a reimbursable basis;
(3)
evaluate NASA center-specific agreements with commercial entities to ensure that costs reflect the impacted location rather than the cost of the highest national agreement; and
(4)
ensure that no project carried out under such program adversely impacts, delays, or defers testing or other activities associated with facilities used for Government programs, including—
(A)
the Space Launch System and the Exploration Upper Stage of the Space Launch System;
(B)
in-space propulsion to support exploration missions; and
(C)
nuclear propulsion testing.
(d)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall preclude a NASA program, including the Space Launch System and the Exploration Upper Stage of the Space Launch System, from using the modernized test infrastructure developed under this section.
