1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Combating Obstruction Against Leasing Act of 2025
or the
COAL Act of 2025
.
2.
Leasing for certain qualified coal applications
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Coal lease
The term
coal lease
means a lease entered into by the United States as lessor, through the Bureau of Land Management, and an applicant, as lessee, on Bureau of Land Management Form 3400–012 (or a successor form).
(2)
Qualified application
The term
qualified application
means any application for a coal lease pending as of the date of enactment of this Act submitted under the lease by application program administered by the Bureau of Land Management pursuant to the Mineral Leasing Act (
30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.
) and subpart 3425 of part 3420 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act), for which the environmental review process under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
) has commenced as of that date of enactment.
(b)
Mandatory leasing and other required approvals
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—
(1)
with respect to each qualified application—
(A)
if not previously published for public comment, publish—
(i)
a draft environmental assessment, as required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
); and
(ii)
any applicable implementing regulations;
(B)
finalize the fair market value of the coal tract for which the qualified application is pending;
(C)
take all intermediate actions necessary to grant the qualified application; and
(D)
grant the qualified application; and
(2)
with respect to previously awarded coal leases, grant any additional approvals of the Department of the Interior or any bureau, agency, or division of the Department of the Interior required for mining activities to commence.
3.
Future coal leasing
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Secretarial Order 3338, issued by the Secretary of the Interior on January 15, 2016 (relating to the Federal coal moratorium), shall have no force or effect.
