1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Prohibition of Agricultural Land for Foreign Adversaries Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Agricultural land
The term
agricultural land
has the meaning given the term in section 9 of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (
7 U.S.C. 3508
).
(2)
Covered person
The term
covered person
means an individual or entity associated with the government of—
(A)
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea;
(B)
the Islamic Republic of Iran;
(C)
the People's Republic of China; or
(D)
the Russian Federation.
(3)
United States
The term
United States
includes any State, territory, or possession of the United States.
3.
Prohibition on purchase of agricultural land in the United States by persons associated with certain foreign governments
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President shall take such actions as may be necessary to prohibit the purchase by covered persons of public or private agricultural land (including ranching land) located in the United States.
(b)
Implementation
The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out subsection (a).
(c)
Penalties
A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (a) or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
4.
Prohibition on participation in Department of Agriculture programs by persons associated with certain foreign governments
(a)
In general
Except as provided in subsection (b), notwithstanding any other provision of the law, the President shall take such actions as may be necessary to prohibit participation in Department of Agriculture programs by covered persons.
(b)
Exceptions
Subsection (a) shall not apply to participation in any Department of Agriculture program relating to food inspection or any other food safety regulatory requirements.
