1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Engine Testing for Exploration Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(2)
Government astronaut
The term
government astronaut
has the meaning given the term in section 50902 of title 51, United States Code.
(3)
NASA
The term
NASA
means the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
3.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Rocket propulsion system testing is critical for the operation of the space launch system and of future rockets that will embark on deep space exploration, including crewed missions to the Moon.
(2)
The NASA Stennis Space Center is the primary and largest rocket propulsion system testing and engineering facility for NASA.
(3)
The NASA Stennis Engineering and Test Directorate provides unique ground-testing services for rocket propulsion systems.
(4)
The existing infrastructure at the Stennis Space Center provides unique capabilities to test and evaluate rocket propulsion systems for space launch vehicles.
(5)
Maintaining within NASA a strong core competency in the testing and evaluation of rocket propulsion systems and related technologies allows NASA to be an informed purchaser of competitively awarded commercial rocket engines.
(6)
The commercial space industry is currently developing rocket propulsion systems and other space launch capabilities.
(7)
Testing rocket propulsion systems reduces risk and improves safety of space launch vehicles.
4.
Rocket propulsion system testing
(a)
Maintaining rocket propulsion system testing capabilities
(1)
In general
The Administrator shall—
(A)
maintain the rocket propulsion system testing capabilities necessary to achieve the goals of the human spaceflight exploration programs of NASA; and
(B)
ensure the continuity within NASA of the internal expertise necessary to test and evaluate rocket propulsion systems, including through partnerships with the private sector.
(2)
Role of Stennis Space Center
The rocket propulsion system testing programs of NASA shall continue to be managed by the Stennis Space Center.
(b)
Briefing
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall provide the appropriate committees of Congress with a briefing on NASA plans for—
(1)
rocket propulsion system testing and evaluation for—
(A)
missions in low-Earth orbit; and
(B)
missions to be conducted in deep space; and
(2)
future programs for rocket propulsion system testing for missions that use space launch vehicles certified for use by NASA for government astronauts.
