1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Presidential Fitness Test Act of 2025
.
2.
President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition
(a)
Establishment
There is established the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition (referred to in this section as the
Council
).
(b)
Membership
(1)
Appointments
The Council shall consist of up to 30 members to be appointed by the President.
(2)
Membership
The members of the Council may include representatives of relevant stakeholders.
(3)
Terms
A member of the Council—
(A)
shall serve for a term of 2 years;
(B)
shall be eligible for reappointment; and
(C)
may continue to serve after the expiration of their term until the appointment of a successor.
(4)
Chair; Vice Chair
The President may designate one or more of the members of the Council to serve as the Chair or Vice Chair of the Council.
(c)
Functions of the Council
(1)
In general
The Council shall—
(A)
advise the President concerning progress made in carrying out the provisions of this section; and
(B)
recommend to the President actions to accelerate such progress.
(2)
Recommendations
In carrying out this section, the Council shall recommend—
(A)
strategies for reestablishing the Presidential Fitness Test, with any appropriate improvements, as the main assessment tool for a Presidential Fitness Award;
(B)
strategies for the development and promotion of Presidential challenges and school-based programs that reward excellence in physical education;
(C)
actions to expand opportunities at the global, national, State, and local levels for participation in sports and engagement in physical fitness;
(D)
bold and innovative fitness goals for American youth with the aim of fostering a new generation of healthy, active citizens;
(E)
campaigns and events that elevate American sports, military readiness, and health traditions;
(F)
opportunities at the global, national, State, and local levels that expand participation in sports and emphasize the importance of an active lifestyle and good nutrition, including partnerships with professional athletes, sports organizations, player’s associations, influential figures, nonprofit organizations, and community groups to inspire all Americans, among other initiatives; and
(G)
strategies to address the growing national security threat posed by the increasing rates of childhood obesity, chronic diseases, and sedentary lifestyles, which threaten the future readiness of the United States workforce and military.
(d)
Administration
(1)
Executive director
The President shall designate an Executive Director of the Council who shall—
(A)
manage day-to-day operations;
(B)
serve as a liaison to the President on matters and activities pertaining to the Council; and
(C)
oversee engagement with executive departments and agencies, athletic institutions, and community partners.
(2)
Information to be furnished by departments and agencies
Each executive department and agency shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, furnish such information and assistance to the Council as the Council may request.
(3)
Compensation
Members of the Council shall serve without compensation but may receive travel reimbursement, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of
chapter 57
of title 5, United States Code, subject to the availability of funds.
(4)
Funding; administrative and technical support
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the Council may require, subject to appropriations Acts.
(5)
Subcommittees
The Council may, with the approval of the President, establish subcommittees as appropriate to aid in the work of the Council.
(6)
Seal
The Council shall modify the seal of the
President’s Council on Physical Fitness and Sports
to reflect the name of the Council as established by subsection (a).
(7)
Federal Advisory Committee Act
To the extent that
chapter 10
of title 5, United States Code (known as the
Federal Advisory Committee Act
), may apply to the administration of this section, any functions of the President under such chapter, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with the guidelines and procedures issued by the Administrator of General Services.
(e)
Termination
The Council shall terminate 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, unless extended by the President.
(f)
Availability of amounts
Amounts appropriated after the date of enactment of this Act to carry out the Presidential Youth Fitness Program may be used to establish the Presidential Fitness Test in schools in the United States.
