1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Space Exploration Research Act
.
2.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration supplemental lease authority
(a)
Supplemental lease authority
(1)
In general
The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (referred to in this Act as the
Administrator
) may, using existing lease authorities available to the Administrator and on such terms as the Administrator considers appropriate, lease, for a term not to exceed 99 years, real property under the jurisdiction of the Administrator to 1 or more entities described in subsection (c) for the purpose of the construction and operation on such real property of 1 or more facilities the purposes of which shall be—
(A)
to conduct aeronautical and space research;
(B)
to educate and train individuals for careers in the space industry;
(C)
to carry out the transfer of aeronautical and space technology between the United States public and domestic private sectors;
(D)
to conduct scientific, engineering, medical, or academic activities; and
(E)
to conduct any other space-related activity.
(2)
Renewal
The Administrator may renew a lease under this subsection for 1 or more additional periods.
(b)
Administrative, maintenance, and instructional support
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Administrator may—
(1)
enter into 1 or more agreements, on such terms as the Administrator considers appropriate, with 1 or more entities described in subsection (c) to lease back real property described in subsection (a), including such real property that has been—
(A)
leased to a private entity under other lease authority available to the Administrator; and
(B)
subleased to an entity described in subsection (c);
(2)
enter into 1 or more contracts, grant agreements, cooperative agreements, or other authorized transactions with an entity described in subsection (c) with respect to such property; and
(3)
provide administrative, maintenance, instructional, and other appropriate support, with or without reimbursement, to the 1 or more facilities described in subsection (a).
(c)
Entities described
An entity described in this subsection is—
(1)
the State in which the real property described in subsection (a) is located;
(2)
a subdivision, agent, or agency of such a State;
(3)
a corporation or foundation organized exclusively for education or scientific purposes that is exempt from taxation under
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (
26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)
); and
(4)
an institution of higher education (as defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
)).
(d)
Delegation
The Administrator may delegate the authorities under subsections (a) and (b) to subordinate officers and employees of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, as the Administrator considers appropriate.
(e)
Effect of other law
The authority provided by this section shall apply—
(1)
regardless of the existing authority used by the Administrator to lease the real property described in subsection (a); and
(2)
notwithstanding any provision of—
(A)
section 1302 of title 40, United States Code;
(B)
section 20145 of title 51, United States Code; or
(C)
section 306121 of title 54, United States Code.
