1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Infrastructure, Readiness, and Emergency Notifications Act of 2026
or the
SIREN Act of 2026
.
2.
Grants for broadband deployment
(a)
In general
Section 60102 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
47 U.S.C. 1702
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)(5)(C)(ii), in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking
by the applicable deadline
and inserting
after being provided the opportunity to submit a proposal under subsection (f)(2)(B)(ii) and use any remaining amounts in accordance with that proposal, if approved by the Assistant Secretary
; and
(2)
in subsection (f)—
(A)
in paragraph (4), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(B)
by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (6) as subparagraphs (A) through (F), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(C)
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by striking
An eligible entity may
and inserting the following:
(1)
Permitted uses
An eligible entity may
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Use of remaining amounts for emergency warning infrastructure, connectivity, and related systems projects
(A)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Eligible project
The term
eligible project
means a project for the procurement, installation, or modernization of—
(I)
audible warning sirens or similar rapid notification technologies and infrastructure;
(II)
wind, flood, fire, earthquake, or other sensor technologies necessary for the detection and monitoring of, and rapid response to, major disasters; or
(III)
information technology equipment, software, and any other related item necessary for the function of projects described in subclauses (I) and (II).
(ii)
Remaining amounts
The term
remaining amounts
, with respect to the allocations to an eligible entity under subsection (c), means any amounts remaining from those allocations upon approval of the eligible entity’s final proposal under subsection (e)(4).
(B)
Use of remaining funds
An eligible entity that wishes to use remaining amounts for 1 or more eligible projects—
(i)
shall submit to the Assistant Secretary a proposal for utilizing the remaining amounts in accordance with clause (ii); and
(ii)
may, if the proposal submitted under clause (i) is approved by the Assistant Secretary, use the remaining amounts to establish a competitive subgrant program to support 1 or more eligible projects.
(C)
Prioritization
In awarding subgrants under subparagraph (B), an eligible entity shall prioritize eligible projects in which the eligible entity or a political subdivision of the eligible entity has provided not less than 25 percent of the cost of the eligible project.
(D)
Prohibited use of funds
A subgrant awarded under subparagraph (B) may not be used for the operating or maintenance costs of an eligible project.
(E)
Interstate projects
Two or more eligible entities may execute a memorandum of agreement between or among one another to facilitate a subgrant award under subparagraph (B) for an eligible project that spans an area within the jurisdiction of 2 or more of the eligible entities.
.
(b)
Technical amendment
Section 60102(e)(4)(A)(i) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
47 U.S.C. 1702(e)(4)(A)(i)
) is amended, in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking
approvals
and inserting
approves
.
