1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Counternarcotics Enhancement Act
.
2.
Plan to enhance counternarcotics collaboration, coordination, and cooperation with the Government of Mexico
(a)
Requirement for intelligence community elements
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence community shall submit to the Director of National Intelligence the following:
(1)
A description and assessment of the intelligence community element’s direct relationship, if any, with any element of the Government of Mexico, including an assessment of the counterintelligence risks of such relationship.
(2)
A strategy to enhance counternarcotics cooperation and appropriate coordination with each element of the Government of Mexico with which the intelligence community element has a direct relationship.
(3)
Recommendations and a description of the resources required to efficiently and effectively implement the strategy required by paragraph (2) in furtherance of the national interest of the United States.
(b)
Requirement for Director of National Intelligence
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees the following:
(1)
The submissions received by the Director pursuant to subsection (a).
(2)
An action plan to enhance counternarcotics collaboration, coordination, and cooperation with the Government of Mexico, including recommendations or requests for any changes in authorities or resources in order to effectuate the plan effectively in fiscal year 2026.
(c)
Form
(1)
Submissions from intelligence community elements
The submissions required by subsection (b)(1) shall be submitted to the congressional intelligence committees in the same form in which they were submitted to the Director of National Intelligence.
(2)
Action plan
The submission required by subsection (b)(2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Congressional intelligence committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional intelligence committees
has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3003
).
