1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mid-South Oilseed Double Cropping Study Act of 2025
.
2.
Study on inclusion of certain oilseed crops under double and rotational cropping policies
Section 522(c) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (
7 U.S.C. 1522(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(20)
Double cropping and rotational cropping of certain oilseed crops
(A)
Definition of covered oilseed crops
In this paragraph, the term
covered oilseed crops
means rapeseed and canola crops that—
(i)
require a period of cold temperature (vernalization) before the crops will produce flowers and seeds; and
(ii)
are planted and harvested on land that would otherwise be idle in a rotation pattern.
(B)
Research and development
The Corporation shall carry out research and development, or offer to enter into 1 or more contracts with 1 or more qualified persons to carry out research and development, with respect to the inclusion of covered oilseed crops under double cropping and rotational cropping policies.
(C)
Requirements
The research and development carried out pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be conducted in consultation with stakeholders to evaluate—
(i)
the factors impacting availability and cost of crop insurance when incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies; and
(ii)
the potential risk management benefits associated with incorporating covered oilseed crops into double cropping and rotational cropping policies, including risk management benefits to soil health, biodiversity, and the profitability of farming operations.
(D)
Emphasis
In awarding contracts under subparagraph (B), the Corporation may place emphasis on qualified persons and institutions that—
(i)
have previous research experience with covered oilseed crops; and
(ii)
have access to a facility with the capacity to carry out the applicable research.
(E)
Report
Not later than 13 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives a report that describes—
(i)
the results of the research and development carried out under subparagraph (B); and
(ii)
any recommendations with respect to those results.
.
