1.
Disclosure of access to election infrastructure by foreign nationals
(a)
In general
Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21081
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 303 the following new section:
303A.
Disclosure of access to election infrastructure by foreign nationals
(a)
In general
Each chief State election official shall disclose to the Commission the identity of any foreign national known by the chief State election official—
(1)
to have physically handled—
(A)
ballots used in an election for Federal office; or
(B)
voting machines; or
(2)
to have had unmonitored access to—
(A)
a storage facility or centralized vote tabulation location used to support the administration of an election for public office; or
(B)
election-related information or communications technology, including voter registration databases, voting machines, electronic mail and other communications systems (including electronic mail and other systems of vendors who have entered into contracts with election agencies to support the administration of elections, manage the election process, and report and display election results), and other systems used to manage the election process and to report and display election results on behalf of an election agency.
(b)
Timing
The chief State election official shall make the disclosure under subsection (a) not later than 30 days after the date on which such official becomes aware of an activity described in such subsection.
(c)
Foreign national defined
The term
foreign national
has the meaning given that term in section 319 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (
52 U.S.C. 30121
).
.
(b)
Conforming amendment relating to enforcement
Section 401 of such Act (
52 U.S.C. 21111
) is amended by striking
sections 301, 302, and 303
and inserting
subtitle A of title III
.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:
Sec. 303A. Disclosure of access to election infrastructure by foreign nationals.
.
