1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modernizing Eligible Treatment centers for Healing Addiction Act of 2019
or the
METH Addiction Act
.
2.
Registration of community addiction treatment facilities and community mental health facilities
(a)
Definitions
Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (54)(A), by striking clause (i) and inserting the following:
(i)
while the patient is being treated by, and physically located in—
(I)
a hospital or clinic registered under section 303(f); or
(II)
a community addiction treatment facility or community mental health facility registered under section 303(l); and
;
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (58) as paragraph (59);
(3)
by redesignating the second paragraph designated as paragraph (57) as paragraph (58);
(4)
by moving paragraphs (57), (58) (as so redesignated), and (59) (as so redesignated) 2 ems to the left; and
(5)
by adding at the end the following:
(60)
The term
community addiction treatment facility
means an addiction treatment facility that, for the purpose of operating as an addiction treatment facility, is licensed, operated, authorized, or otherwise recognized by a State government.
(61)
The term
community mental health facility
means a mental health facility that, for the purpose of operating as a mental health facility, is licensed, operated, authorized, or otherwise recognized by a State government.
.
(b)
Registration
Section 303 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 823
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(l)
Community addiction treatment facilities and community mental health facilities
(1)
Registration
The Attorney General may register community addiction treatment facilities and community mental health facilities to administer controlled substances through the practice of telemedicine.
(2)
Denial of applications
The Attorney General may deny an application for registration under paragraph (1) if the Attorney General determines that the registration would be inconsistent with the public interest after considering—
(A)
any recommendation by the licensing board or professional disciplinary authority of the State in which the applicant is located;
(B)
the experience of the applicant in treating patients;
(C)
any conviction of an employee of the applicant under Federal or State law relating to treatment of patients;
(D)
the compliance of the applicant with applicable Federal, State, or local laws relating to treatment of patients; and
(E)
any other conduct by the applicant that may threaten the health and safety of the public.
.
(c)
Implementation plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall notify Congress of the plan of the Department of Justice to implement the amendments made by this Act.
(d)
Effective date
The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date on which the Attorney General notifies Congress under subsection (c).
