1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Securing Healthcare and Response Equipment Act of 2020
or the
SHARE Act of 2020
.
2.
Transfer of equipment during a public health emergency
(a)
Amendment
Title V of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 311
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
529.
Transfer of equipment during a public health emergency
(a)
Authorization of transfer of equipment
During a public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319(a) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d(a)
), the Secretary, at the request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may transfer to the Department of Health and Human Services, on a reimbursable basis, personal protection equipment or medically necessary equipment in the possession of the Department.
(b)
Determination by Secretaries
(1)
In general
In carrying out this section—
(A)
before requesting a transfer under subsection (a), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall determine whether the personal protection equipment or medically necessary equipment is otherwise available, including available by required performance of a contract or order under section 101 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (
50 U.S.C. 4511
); and
(B)
the Secretary shall determine whether the personal protection equipment or medically necessary equipment requested to be transferred under subsection (a) is excess equipment.
(2)
Notification
The Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary shall each submit to Congress a notification explaining the determination made under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of paragraph (1).
(c)
Required inventory
The Secretary shall—
(1)
maintain an inventory of all personal protection equipment and medically necessary equipment in the possession of the Department; and
(2)
make the inventory required under paragraph (1) available, on a continual basis, to—
(A)
the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
(B)
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
.
(b)
Table of contents amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 528 the following:
Sec. 529. Transfer of equipment during a public health emergency.
.
