1.
China Censorship Monitor and Action Group
(a)
In general
There is established an interagency task force, which shall be known as the
China Censorship Monitor and Action Group
(referred to in this section as the
task force
).
(b)
Membership
The task force shall be composed of representatives of—
(1)
the Department of State;
(2)
the Department of Commerce;
(3)
the Federal Communications Commission; and
(4)
the United States Agency for Global Media.
(c)
Meetings
The task force shall meet not less frequently than quarterly.
(d)
Consultations
The task force shall regularly consult, to the extent necessary and appropriate, with—
(1)
other Federal agencies; and
(2)
relevant stakeholders in the private sector and the media.
(e)
Public database
Using information obtained from the agencies referred to in subsection (b) and consultations required under subsection (d), the task force shall compile and maintain a public database, which shall be hosted on a United States Government database server, that describes all punitive actions taken by the People’s Republic of China toward United States companies that involve economic or diplomatic retaliation for the exercise of free speech by United States companies. The public database required under this subsection shall be updated as soon as practicable, but not less frequently than semiannually.
(f)
Reporting requirements
(1)
Annual report
The task force shall submit an annual report to the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
, the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate
, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
, and
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives
that describes the activities of the task force during the reporting period.
(2)
Congressional briefings
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and semiannually thereafter, the task force shall provide briefings regarding its activities to the congressional committees referred to in paragraph (1).
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
