Executive Order  —Providing for the Performance of Certain Functions Heretofore Performed by the President With Respect to Certain Facilities Constructed and   on  
 
 

WHEREAS the proper conduct of the foreign relations of   requires that executive permission be obtained for the construction and maintenance at the borders of   of facilities connecting   with a foreign country; and

WHEREAS such executive permission has from time to time been sought and granted in the form of Presidential permits for the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance at the borders of   of such border crossing facilities as water supply and oil pipelines, aerial tramways and cable cars, submarine cables, and lines for the transmission of electric energy; and

WHEREAS Executive Order No. 10485 of  , empowers   to issue permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection, at the borders of  , of facilities for the transmission of electric energy between   and a foreign country and for the importation or exportation of natural gas to or from a foreign country; and

WHEREAS Executive Order No.   of  , empowers   to issue and revoke licenses to land submarine cables in  ; and

WHEREAS it is desirable to provide a systematic method in connection with the issuance of permits for the construction and maintenance of other such facilities connecting   with a foreign country:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   and Commander in Chief of   and in conformity with the provisions of Section 301 of Title 3, United States Code, it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) Except with respect to facilities covered by Executive Orders No. 10485 and No.  , the Secretary of   is hereby designated and empowered to receive all applications for permits for the construction, connection, operation, or maintenance, at the borders of  , of: (i) pipelines, conveyor belts, and similar facilities for the exportation or importation of petroleum, petroleum products, coal, minerals, or other products to or from a foreign country; (ii) facilities for the exportation or importation of water or sewage to or from a foreign country; (iii) monorails, aerial cable cars, aerial tramways and similar facilities for the transportation of persons or things, or both, to or from a foreign country; and (iv) bridges, to the extent that congressional authorization is not required.

(b) With respect to applications received pursuant to subsection (a) (i) above, the Secretary of   shall request the views of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  ,  , and the Director of  . With respect to applications received pursuant to subsection (a) (ii) above, the Secretary of   shall request the views of the Secretary of   and the Secretary of the  . With respect to applications received pursuant to subsection (a) (iii) or (iv) above, the Secretary of   shall request the views of the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Attorney General, and the Secretary of  .

(c) The Secretary of   may also consult with such other department and agency heads and with such state and local government officials as he deems appropriate with respect to each application. All federal government officials consulted by the Secretary of   pursuant to this section shall provide such information and render such assistance as he may request, consistent with their competence and authority.

(d) If the Secretary of   fords, after consideration of the views obtained pursuant to subsections (b) and (c), that issuance of a permit to the applicant would serve the national interest, he shall prepare a permit, in such form and with such terms and conditions as the national interest may in his judgment require, and shall notify the officials required to be consulted under subsection (b) above of his proposed determination that the permit be issued.

(e) If the Secretary of   finds, after consideration of the views obtained pursuant to subsections (b) and (c), that issuance of a permit to the applicant would not serve the national interest, he shall notify the officials required to be consulted under subsection (b) above of his proposed determination that the application be denied.

(f) The Secretary of   shall issue or deny the permit in accordance with his proposed determination unless, within   after notification pursuant to subsection (d) or (e) above, an official required to be consulted under subsection (b) above shall notify the Secretary of   that he disagrees with the Secretary's proposed determination and requests the Secretary to refer the application to the President. In the event of such a request, the Secretary of   shall refer the application, together with statements of the views of the several officials involved, to the President for his consideration and final decision.:

Sac. 2. (a) The Secretary of   may provide for the publication in   of notice of receipt of applications, for the receipt of public comments on applications, and for publication in   of notice of issuance or denial of applications.

(b) The Secretary of   is authorized to issue such further rules and regulations, and to prescribe such further procedures, as he may from time to time deem necessary or desirable for the exercise of the authority conferred upon him by this order.

 . 3. The authority of the Secretary of   hereunder is supplemental to, and does not supersede existing authorities or delegations relating to importation, exportation, transmission, or transportation to or from a foreign country. All permits heretofore issued with respect to matters described in Section 1 of this order, and in force at the time of issuance of this order, and all permits issued hereunder, shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms unless and until modified, amended, suspended, or revoked by the President or, upon compliance with the procedures provided for in this order, by the Secretary of  .

 

 

 

NOTE: The text of the   order was released at  ,  . For announcement of the signing of the order, see the preceding item.
