Executive Order  —Assigning Authority to Order Certain Persons in   to Active Duty
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. (a) The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, to order to active duty any member of   of an armed force (except   when not operating as a service in the  ) who—

(1) is not assigned to, or participating satisfactorily in, a unit of  ;

(2) has not fulfilled his statutory reserve obligation; and

(3) has not served on active duty for a total of  .

(b) In pursuance of the provisions of section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, the Secretary of   is hereby authorized to require a member ordered to active duty under the authority of this   to serve on active duty until his total service on active duty equals  . If the enlistment or period of military service of a member of   ordered to active duty under this authority would expire before he has served the required period of active duty prescribed herein, his enlistment or period of military service may be extended until he has served the required period.

(c) In pursuance of the provisions of section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, and in order to achieve fair treatment among members of   who are being considered for active duty under this authority, appropriate consideration shall be given to—

(1) family responsibilities; and

(2) employment necessary to maintain the national health, safety, or interest.

 . 2. The Secretary of   is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 673a of title 10 of the United States Code, with respect to any member of   of   when it is not operating as a service in the  , under the same conditions as such authority may be exercised by the Secretary of   under this   with respect to any member of   of any other armed force.

 . 3. (a) The Secretary of   may designate any of the Secretaries of the military departments of   to exercise the authority vested in him by section 1 of this Order.

(b) The Secretary of   may designate   to exercise the authority vested in him by section 2 of this  .

 . 4. Executive  .   of  , is superseded except with respect to members of   ordered to active duty under the authority of that  .

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not issued in the form of a   press release.
