Executive Order  —  Liaison and Cooperation
 
 

WHEREAS, at a meeting of the   on  , I designated the Director of   to serve as liaison with the Governors of the fifty   for the purpose of establishing and maintaining better understanding, increased cooperation, and improving the lines of communication between the President and   governors and between the executive agencies of   and   governments; and

WHEREAS, the Director of   was designated because his office, through its national office and regional offices, is in constant contact with the   governors with respect to cooperative programs dealing with continuity of government, mobilization of resources, and Federal assistance in major natural disasters; and

WHEREAS, this function assigned to   has been performed for   without the employment of any additional personnel, and has significantly advanced   relations, contributing to more efficient service to the   people, through many improvements in effective administration of jointly financed   programs, simplification of grant-in-aid procedures, expedition of decisions, consolidation of related programs, and advance consultation on proposed changes in federal programs and regulations affecting state and local governments; and

WHEREAS, during such period   has identified and resolved at least 1,300 questions, problems or complaints raised by the   during conferences which were attended by 285 top ranking   officials, 300 Federal regional and field officials, and more than 2,000 state officials; and

WHEREAS a resolution unanimously adopted by   in  ,  , on  , described this liaison program as having "resulted in the best working partnership in the modern history of our Nation between the Governors and   of  ," and urged the President and the   "to give formal status to, and continue in the future . . . the existing   relations program being carried on by the agency now established and functioning."

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 2 (e) of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 (72 Stat.  ) and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. In addition to his other duties, the Director of   shall also continue to act as the President's liaison with the Governors of the States and Territories, with the title of Assistant to the President for  .

 . 2.  , its  , staff and employees, shall assist the Director in carrying out these additional responsibilities. To accomplish continued and effective liaison with and assistance to the   and   agencies,   shall continue to serve as the clearing house for the prompt handling and solution of   problems involving the executive branches of the Federal and   governments.

 . 3. (a) All Federal departments, agencies, and   shall continue to extend full cooperation and assistance to the Assistant to the President for   and to   in carrying out their responsibilities under this order. The Assistant to the President for   and   shall be available to and assist, upon request, all   departments and agencies with problems which may arise between them and the executive agencies of the States and Territories.

(b) The head of   and agency shall designate an appropriate official with broad general experience in his department or agency, upon request by the Assistant to the President for  , to serve as a point of contact in carrying out   liaison activities under this order.

 . 4. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any   or agency, or function thereof, to the authority of the Director of   or the Assistant to the President for  .

 

 

 

NOTE: The Executive order was released at  ,  .
