Executive Order  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS foreign trade is an essential and continuing element in the economic strength of  , and expansion of exports by and through private enterprise is of increasing importance and necessity to the economic welfare of this nation; and

WHEREAS there is a need for a continuing and systematic coordination of Government programs and policies designed to promote and expand   exports:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Interagency  ,

(a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  "), to serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of   with respect to export expansion policies and programs, which shall consist of the following members: The Secretary of  , who shall be Chairman; the Secretary of the  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the Secretary of  ; the President of  ;  ; and  . The Chairman shall from time to time invite other heads of Federal agencies to participate in   meetings when matters affecting their interests are to be considered by the  .

(b) Each member of the   shall designate an officer to sit on the   as an alternate member whenever the designating member is absent or otherwise unable to participate in a meeting of the  . Alternate members from executive departments shall be of rank not less than that of Assistant Secretary and other alternate members shall be of rank as nearly comparable to that of an Assistant Secretary as may be practicable.

 . 2.

The Secretary of  .

The Secretary of   shall be responsible for developing methods for improving coordination among Federal agencies in the development and carrying out of export promotion programs.

 . 3.

Functions of the  .

The   shall advise the Secretary of Commerce with regard to (1) means for developing and stimulating more effective export expansion programs; (2) changes in existing policies and programs of the   agencies which relate to improving export promotion and expansion; and (3) related areas upon which the Chairman may request advice.

 . 4.

Consultation.

In the performance of its functions hereunder the  , as may be appropriate, shall seek the advice and support of   and shall consult and closely coordinate with  .

 . 5.

Administrative arrangements,

(a) As may be necessary for effectuating the purposes of this order, the   agencies represented on the   under the provisions of Section 1 hereof shall furnish assistance to the   in consonance with Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). Such assistance may include the detailing of employees to the   to perform such functions consistent with the purposes of this order as the   may assign to them and may also include the assignment by the Secretary of Commerce of an official in   to serve as the executive director of the  .

(b) With respect to functions of the   under this order and insofar as practicable, Federal agencies shall upon request of the   furnish it information, data, and reports and shall otherwise cooperate with the  .

 . 6.

Construction,

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof, or any  .

(b) As used herein the term "Federal agencies" includes executive departments and other executive agencies.

 

 ,

 .
