Executive  —Providing for the Performance by   in or   to the Approval of the President
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows—

Section 1.   is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(1) The authority vested in the President by Section 6(d) of   of  , 50 Stat. 888 (42 U.S.C. 1406(d)), to approve the undertaking by   of any   contribution, grant, or loan, or any contract for any   contribution, grant, or loan, under that Act.

(2) The authority vested in the President by Section 14 of   of  , 50 Stat. 895 (42 U.S.C.  ), to approve the amending or superseding of any contract for   contributions or loans, or both, so that the going Federal rate on the basis of which such   contributions or the interest rate on the loans, or both, respectively, are fixed shall mean the going Federal rate on the date of approval of the amending or superseding contract entered into by  .

(3) The authority vested in   by Section 103(b) of the Housing Act of  , 63 Stat. 416 (42 U.S.C. 1453(b)), to contract, with the approval of the President, to make grants under Title I of that Act.

(4) The authority vested in the President by Title II of the Act of  , ch. 440, 54 Stat. 681 (42 U.S.C.  ), to determine that housing administered or assisted by   under that   is no longer needed to assure the availability of dwellings for persons engaged in national-defense activities: Provided, That determinations under this paragraph shall require the concurrence of the Secretary of  .

(5) The authority vested in the President by Section 5 of the Act of June 29, 1936, ch. 860, 49 Stat.  , to approve the dedication by   of streets, alleys, and parks for public use, and the granting by the Commissioner of easements, in connection with any low-cost housing or slum-clearance project described in that Act.

(6) The authority vested in the President by Section 57 of the Alaska Omnibus Act (added by   of  , 78 Stat. 507), (A) to make the grants to the State of   provided for in that Section, (B) to approve a plan submitted by   for the implementation of the purpose of that Section, (C) to specify reports to be made by the agency designated by   in accordance with that Section and to prescribe the form of, and information to be contained in, such reports, and (D) to demand access to the records upon which such reports are based.

 . 2. The following are hereby superseded:

(1) Part III of Executive Order No.   of  .

(2) Executive Order No.   of  .

(3) Executive Order No. 10852 of  .

(4) So much of Executive Order No.   of  , as added paragraph (g) to Section 4 of Executive Order No.   of  .

 . 3. (a) References in this   to any statute or to any provision of any statute shall be deemed to include (1) to the extent not inappropriate, references thereto as amended from time to time, (2) in the cases of Sections 1(1),  ), 1(4), and 1(5) of this  , references to Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1947 (61 Stat. 954), and (3) in the case of Section 1(5) of this  , a reference to Executive Order No. 7732 of  .

(b) Unless inappropriate, any reference in any Executive order to any   order which is superseded by this  , or to any Executive order provision so superseded, shall hereafter be deemed to refer to this   or to the provision of Section 1 hereof, if any, which corresponds to the superseded provision.

 . 4. All actions heretofore taken by the President or by his delegate in respect of the matters affected by Section 1 of this Order and in force at the time of the issuance of this   shall, except as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this  , remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the authority conferred by this   unless sooner terminated by operation of law.

 

 ,

 .
