Executive Order  —Assigning Authority to Order Certain Persons in   to Active Duty
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Title I of  , 1967 (Public Law 89-687, 80 Stat. 980), and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , and, when designated by him for this purpose, any of the Secretaries of the military departments of  , are hereby authorized and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President until  , by Title I of  ,  , to order to active duty any member of   of an armed force who—

(1) is not assigned to, or participating satisfactorily in, a unit in  , and

(2) has not fulfilled his statutory reserve obligation, and

(3) has not served on active duty or active duty for training for a total of  .

 . 2. In pursuance of the provisions of Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act,  , the Secretary of  , and, when designated by him for this purpose, any of the Secretaries of the military departments of  , are hereby authorized to require a member ordered to active duty under this authority to serve on active duty until his total service on active duty or active duty for training equals  . If the enlistment or period of military service of a member of   ordered to active duty under this authority would expire before he has served the required period of active duty prescribed herein, his enlistment or period of military service may be extended until that service on active duty has been completed.

 . 3. In pursuance of the provisions of Title I of the Department of Defense Appropriation Act,  , and in order to achieve fair treatment as between members in   who are being considered for active duty under this authority, appropriate consideration shall be given to—

(1) family responsibilities; and

(2) employment necessary to maintain the national health, safety, or interest.

 

 

 NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
