Executive Order  —Providing for   in  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 1110 of the Federal Aviation Act of   (72 Stat. 800, 49 U.S.C.  ), and as President of   and Commander in Chief of  , and having determined that such action would be in the national interest, it is hereby ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. As used in this order,

(a) "Ryukyu Islands" means the territory, including territorial waters and overlying airspace, to which Executive Order No.  , as amended, applies.

(b) "Act" means the Federal Aviation Act of   (72 Stat. 731, 49 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended.

(c) "Board" means  .

(d) "High Commissioner" means the High Commissioner of  .

 . 2. The provisions of  ,  ,  , X, and Section 1108 (b) of the Act, together with the related definitions in Section 101 thereof, are extended to   insofar as applicable to the economic regulation by   originating in   and terminating elsewhere, or terminating in   and originating elsewhere, or transiting  .

 . 3. The provisions of Title VII of the Act are extended to   for all purposes.

 . 4. Before taking action on any application filed pursuant to the Act as extended by this order, the   shall obtain and consider the views of the High Commissioner concerning such application. The High Commissioner shall promptly provide such views to the   on request.

 . 5. All presently outstanding orders, authorizations, and regulations applicable to  , heretofore entered by the   under the Act or by a predecessor agency under the Civil Aeronautics Act of   (52 Stat. 973), are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 . 6. The High Commissioner shall control and regulate aviation within   except as provided in   and 3. The   and   shall furnish the High Commissioner such technical advice and assistance, pursuant to interagency agreement, as he shall require to carry out this responsibility.

 . 7.   are removed from the applicability of Executive Order No.   of  .

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
