Executive Order  —Establishing the President's  
 
 

WHEREAS discrimination on the ground of race, creed, color, or national origin is contrary to the constitutional principles, laws, and policies of  ; and

WHEREAS a number of   departments and agencies have been charged, by statute and executive order, with specific responsibility for eliminating such discrimination, and promoting equal opportunity, and all other Federal departments and agencies have obligations with respect thereto; and

WHEREAS there is need for a single body to review and assist in coordinating the activities of all departments and agencies of the Federal government which are directed toward the elimination of such discrimination and the promotion of equal opportunity:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of   by the Constitution and laws of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby established the President's  .

Sec. 2. The   shall consist of the following:

(1) The Vice President of  , who shall be the chairman of the  .

(2) The Secretary of  , the Attorney General, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Chairman of  ? the Administrator of  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  ,  ,  , the Director of  , the Chairman of  , the Chairman of  , and such other members as the President may from time to time appoint. Each member may designate an alternate to represent him in his absence.

 . 3. There shall be an   Secretary of the  , designated by the chairman, who shall assist the chairman and the   and shall perform such functions as the chairman or the   may

Sec. 4. The   shall—

(1) Recommend to the President such policies, programs and actions as will promote the accomplishment of the purposes of the Civil Rights Acts of   and   and other Federal laws relating to civil rights and the achievement of equal opportunity for all persons, without discrimination on the ground of race, creed, color or national origin.

[graphic]

(2) Advise the President of inadequacies in existing Federal laws, policies, and programs relating to civil rights, and in other Federal activities which affect the free exercise of civil rights or the realization of equal opportunity for all citizens, and make recommendations for their improvement.

(3) Recommend to the President such changes in administrative structure and relationships, including those for merger, combination, or elimination of agencies, committees, or other bodies, or duplicative authority within the   establishment, as may be necessary (A) to effectuate the purposes of this order; and (B) to coordinate the activities of   departments and agencies relevant to such purposes.

(4) Recommend to the President measures which will promote the coordination of Federal activities with those programs of   and

local governments which promote civil rights and foster equal opportunity.

(5) Assist Federal departments and agencies to coordinate their programs and activities and to adopt consistent and uniform policies, practices, and procedures with respect to civil rights and promotion of equal opportunity.

(6) Request reports or other information from   departments and agencies.

(7) Consult with interested public and private groups and individuals.

(8) Convene such conferences as may promote and coordinate the activities of  , and local governments and private groups with respect to civil rights and the promotion of equal opportunity.

(9) Make such reports to the President as he shall require or the   shall deem appropriate.

(10) Adopt rules and regulations to carry out its functions.  . 5. The Chairman of the   shall—

(1) Preside over meetings of the   and assist, coordinate, and guide the work of the   in carrying out its functions.

(2) Implement decisions of the   and represent the   and supervise discharge of its functions and responsibilities between meetings of the  .

(3) Request such reports and otherwise obtain such information from   departments and agencies as the chairman deems necessary to effectuate the purposes of this order or to facilitate the work of the  .

(4) Appoint subcommittees of the   and special working or study groups from among   and agency personnel. (5) Appoint staff of the  .

 . 6. The   shall meet upon the call of the chairman and at such other times as may be provided by its rules and regulations.

 . 7. (a) Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with and assist the   in the performance of its functions and shall furnish the   and the chairman with such reports and information as either may request.

(b) Each Federal department and agency represented on the   shall defray such necessary expenses of and furnish such necessary assistance to, the   as may be authorized by law, including Section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

(c) Members of the   who are officers or employees of the   shall receive no additional compensation by virtue of membership on the  . Other members of the   shall be entitled to receive compensation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C.  ; 5 U.S.C. 73b-2) for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

(d) The   is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ).

(e)   shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 8.   and agency shall designate an officer, of a rank not lower than Deputy Assistant Secretary or the equivalent, to oversee and coordinate the activities of such department or agency related to the purpose of this order, and to serve as liaison with the  .

 . 9. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .
