Executive Order  —Relating to Trade and Other Transactions Involving Southern Rhodesia
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of  , including section 5 of   of 1945 (59 Stat." 620), as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , and considering the measures which   by Security Council Resolution No. 253 adopted  , has decided upon pursuant to article 41 of the Charter of  , and which it has called upon all members of  , including  , to apply, it is hereby ordered:

SECTION I. In addition to the prohibitions of section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  , the following are prohibited effective immediately, notwithstanding any contracts entered into or licenses granted before the date of this Order:

(a) Importation into   of any commodities or products originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported therefrom after  .

(b) Any activities by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   which promote or are calculated to promote the export from Southern Rhodesia after  , of any commodities or products originating in Southern Rhodesia, and any dealings by any such person in any such commodities or products, including in particular any transfer of funds to Southern Rhodesia for the purposes of such activities or dealings; Provided, however, that the prohibition against the dealing in commodities or products exported from Southern Rhodesia shall not apply to any such commodities or products which, prior to the date of this  , had been lawfully imported into  .

(c) Carriage in vessels or aircraft of   registration or under charter to any person subject to the jurisdiction of   of any commodities or products originating in Southern Rhodesia and exported therefrom after  .

(d) Sale or supply by any person subject to the jurisdiction of  , or any other activities by any such person which promote or are calculated to promote the sale or supply, to any person or body in Southern Rhodesia or to any person or body for the purposes of any business carried on in or operated from Southern Rhodesia of any commodities or products. Such activities, including carriage in vessels or aircraft, may be authorized with' respect to supplies intended strictly for medical purposes, educational equipment and material for use in schools and other educational institutions, publications, news material, and foodstuffs required by special humanitarian circumstances.

(e) Carriage in vessels or aircraft of   registration or under charter to any person subject to the jurisdiction of   of any commodities or products consigned to any person or body in Southern Rhodesia, or to any person or body for the purposes of any business carried on in or operated from Southern Rhodesia.

(f) Transfer by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   directly or indirectly to any person or body in Southern Rhodesia of any funds or other financial or economic resources. Payments exclusively for pensions, for strictly medical, humanitarian or educational purposes, for the provision of news material or for foodstuffs required by special humanitarian circumstances may be authorized.

(g) Operation of any  . States air carrier or aircraft owned or chartered by any person subject to the jurisdiction of   or of   registration (i) to or from Southern Rhodesia or (ii) in coordination with any airline company constituted or aircraft registered in Southern Rhodesia.

 . 2. The functions and responsibilities for the 'enforcement of the foregoing prohibitions, and of those prohibitions of Executive Order No.   of   specified below, are delegated as follows: '

(a) To the Secretary of  , the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to

(i) the exportation from   of commodities and products other, than those articles referred to in section 2(a) of Executive Order No.   of  ; and

(ii) the carriage in vessels of any commodities or products the carriage of which is prohibited by section 1 of this   or by section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(b) To the Secretary' of  , the function and responsibility of enforcement relating to the operation of air carriers and aircraft and the carriage in aircraft of any commodities or products the carriage of which is prohibited by section 1 of this   or by section 1 of Executive Order No.   of  .

(c) To the Secretary of the  , the function and responsibility of enforcement to the extent not previously delegated in section 2 of Executive Order No.   of  , and not delegated under subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

 . 3. The Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall exercise any authority which such officer may have apart from   of   or this   so as to give full effect to this   Resolution No. 253.

 . 4. (a) In carrying out their respective functions and responsibilities under this  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  . Each such. Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with other government agencies and private persons.

(b) Each such Secretary shall issue such regulations, licenses or other authorizations as he considers necessary to carry out the purposes, of this   Resolution No. 253.  

 . 5. (a) The term " ," as used in this   in a geographical sense, means all territory subject to the jurisdiction of  .

(b) The term "person" means an individual, partnership, association or other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation.

 . 6. Executive  .   of  , implementing   Resolution No, 232 of  , shall continue in effect as modified by sections 2,  , and 4 of this  .

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
