Executive Order  — ,  
 
 

WHEREAS under Article I of the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, signed at   on  , ratified by  , and proclaimed by the President on   (TIAS 5780), hereinafter sometimes referred to as the Convention, the Government of  , together with the governments of the other countries which have become parties to the Convention, undertakes to give effect to the provisions of the Convention and of the   annexed thereto, to promuls gate all laws, decrees, orders, and regulations, and to take all other steps which may be necessary to give the Convention full and complete effect, so as to insure that, from the point of view of safety of life, a ship is fit for the service for which it is intended; and

WHEREAS it is expedient and necessary, in order that   may give full and complete effect to the Convention, that several departments and agencies of   of the Government perform functions and duties thereunder; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Article XI thereof, the Convention came into force on  , THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. The Secretary of  , the Secretary of the   (acting through  ), the Secretary of Commerce (acting through  ), and  , respectively, are hereby directed, in relation to the fulfillment of the obligations undertaken by   under the Convention, to perform the functions and duties therein prescribed and undertaken which appertain to the functions and duties which they severally are now authorized or directed by law to perform. Each of the Secretaries and the   shall cooperate and assist the others in carrying out the duties imposed by the Convention and by this order.

 . 2. The Secretary of the   (acting through  ), or such other agency as may be authorized by law so to do, shall issue certificates as required by the Convention, and in any case in which a certificate is to include matter which appertains to the functions and duties directed or authorized by law to be performed by the head of any department or agency other than the head of the issuing agency, the head of the issuing agency shall first ascertain from the head of the other department or agency his decision with respect to such matter, and such decision shall be final and binding.

 . 3. In the performance of functions and duties described in   of this order, the Secretary of the   (acting through  ) may avail himself of the services of   so long as that Bureau is operated in compliance with Section 25 of the Act of  , as amended (46 U.S.C. 881), and may make all necessary provisions for the performance by the Bureau of specified duties undertaken under the Convention and to permit the Bureau to issue cargo ship safety construction certificates to those cargo vessels found to be in compliance with the  , which are classed by the Bureau. The Secretary of the   (acting through  ) shall establish all necessary regulations required to carry out in the most effective manner the provisions of the Convention.

 . 4. Whenever   operates as a service in the  , the functions to be performed by the Secretary of the   (acting through  ) under this order shall vest in and be performed by the Secretary of the   (acting through  ).

 . 5. (a) This order supersedes Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Enforcement of the Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1948," to the extent that   signed at   on  , replaces and abrogates   signed at   on  .

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , entitled "Enforcement of the Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1929" is hereby revoked.

 

 

 

NOTE: The text of the Executive Order was released at  ,  , on  .
