Executive  —Establishing  
 
 

WHEREAS subsection (a) of Section 46 of the Alaska Omnibus Act provides, in part, as follows:

In the event that any disputes arise between   and   prior to  , concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal of property to the State of   pursuant to section 6(e) of the Act of   (72 Stat. 339, 340), providing for the admission of the State of   into the Union, or pursuant to this Act, the President is authorized (1) to appoint by and with the advice and consent of the   a temporary commission of three persons, to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle such disputes, and (2) to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to establish such temporary commission or as may be necessary to terminate such temporary commission at the conclusion of its duties;

WHEREAS agreement has been reached on the transfer of substantial amounts of property from   to the State of  ;

WHEREAS a dispute as described in the above-quoted statutory provision has arisen with respect to certain listed properties;

WHEREAS the Governor of   has formally requested that the President appoint a commission as provided in that statutory provision; and

WHEREAS I deem the establishment of such a commission to be in the public interest:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by   ( , approved  ; 73 Stat. 141 et seq.), and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1.

The Commission.

(a) There is hereby established a commission which shall be known as   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall be composed of three persons, each of whom shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the  , from among persons who are not officers or employees of either   or  . The President shall from time to time designate one of the persons composing the   to be the chairman thereof.

(c)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the   on a reimbursable basis.

 . 2.

Functions of the Commission.

(a) With respect to certain property which was on  , owned or held oy   and controlled by the Fish and Wildlife Service of   or its subdivisions as listed on the attachment hereof headed "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY",   shall consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle the dispute which has arisen between   and   concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal to   of the said property. The attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", mentioned above, is hereby made a part of this order.

(b) The   shall timely report to the Secretary of the   its settlements with respect to the said listed property.

 . 3.

Transfer of property.

To the extent necessitated by settlements made by the   in respect of the property listed on the hereto attached "SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY", the Secretary of the  , under the authority of subsection (e) of Section 6 of the Act of July 7, 1958, or under the authority of subsection (a) of Section 45 of the Alaska Omnibus Act as affected by Section 2 of Executive Order No.   of  , as the case may be, shall transfer, convey, or otherwise dispose of the said property to  .

 . 4.

 .

The   shall terminate   after the date of the delivery of its report to the Secretary of the   under the provisions of subsection (b) of Section 2 of this order or upon such   as the President shall hereafter specify.

 

 ,

 .
