Executive Order  —Establishing the President's  
 
 

WHEREAS the economical management of the executive branch is a vital and continuing responsibility of the President; and

WHEREAS it is essential that the resources devoted to the fulfillment of our international responsibilities and the needs of our citizens be utilized in as effective and prudent a manner as possible; and

WHEREAS economies achieved in any governmental program permit more effective meeting of these urgent national needs; and

WHEREAS the best cost reduction practices and techniques developed by individual Government agencies and by business and industry should be utilized in all Government agencies whenever applicable; and

WHEREAS there is a need for review and advice to the President on the progress of the Government's cost reduction program:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Establishment of the  . (a) There is hereby established the President's   (hereinafter referred to as the  ).

(b) The   shall consist of the following:

(1) The Director of  , who shall be the Chairman of the  ,

(2) The Secretary of  , the Chairman of  , and  ,

(3) Such other heads of executive departments and agencies, and such other officers or employees of  , as the President may designate, and

(4) Such other members as the President may appoint from the public at large.

(c) Federal members of the   shall receive no additional compensation for such service. Members appointed from private life shall receive compensation for   engaged on business of the   and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by sections   and   of Title 5 of the United States Code for persons in the   service employed intermittently.

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall:

(1) Review and evaluate the nature and adequacy of the Government cost reduction efforts and advise the President on means to strengthen and improve them.

(2) Explore with responsible operating officials throughout the executive branch opportunities for cost reduction and appropriate actions to achieve them.

(3) Consult with leaders in business, industry and research to draw on their experience in achieving cost reductions and to invite their suggestions.

(4) Identify outstanding cost reduction programs, practices, and techniques developed in Government agencies and in business and industry susceptible to wider use in  .

(5) Submit a final report to the President containing an evaluation of the Government-wide cost reduction program and appropriate recommendations for enhancing its effectiveness   after the effective date of this order, and make interim reports which it deems advisable.

 . 3. Federal agencies. (a) Upon request of the Chairman each executive department and agency shall, consistent with law, furnish the   available information which the   may require in performance of its functions.

(b) Each executive department and agency represented on the   shall furnish such necessary assistance to the   as may be authorized by section 214 of the Act of  , 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691).

 . 4. Termination of the  . The   shall terminate   after the submission of the final report to the President.

 

 

 

NOTE: For the President's statement upon signing the   order, see the preceding item.
