Executive Order  —Providing for the Appointment in   and Former Officers and Employees of  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1753 of the Revised Statutes and   (22 Stat. 403), and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Under regulations and conditions prescribed by  , a present or former officer or employee of   may be appointed in the competitive service if he:

(a) Is qualified for the position in the competitive service;

(b) Was appointed in   under authority of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended, or legislation that supplements or replaces that Act;

(c) Served in   under an unlimited, career-type appointment and, immediately before his separation from that appointment, he completed   of continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in   which may include the service that made him eligible for his career-type appointment; and

(d) Is appointed within   after his separation from  , or he completed  , of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in   immediately before his separation from the unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service which may include the service that made him eligible for such appointment, or he is entitled to preference under section 2 of the Veterans' Preference Act of  , as amended.

 . 2. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a person appointed under Section 1 of this   becomes a career conditional employee.

(b) A person appointed under Section 1 of this   becomes a career employee when he:

(1) Has completed   of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in   immediately before his separation from the unlimited, career type appointment in that Service which may include the service that made him eligible for such appointment;

(2) Is appointed to a position in the competitive service required by law or Executive order to be filled on a permanent or career basis; or

(3) Has completed the service requirement for career tenure in the competitive service.

For the purpose of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, service in   is creditable in meeting the service requirement only if the person concerned is appointed to a nontemporary position in the competitive service under Section 1 of this   within   after his separation from  .

 . 3. A person appointed to a nontemporary position in the competitive service under Section 1 of this   acquires a competitive status automatically on appointment.

 . 4. Any law, Executive order, or regulation that would disqualify an applicant for appointment in the competitive service shall also disqualify a person for appointment under Section 1 of this Order.

 . 5. For the purpose of this  , a person is deemed to be an officer or employee in  " if he was appointed in any agency under authority of the Foreign Service Act of  , as amended, or legislation that supplements or replaces that Act.

 

 ,

 .
