Executive Order  —Providing for the Recognition of Certain Students as Presidential Scholars
 
 

WHEREAS it is necessary in the national interest that   encourage high attainment by students in secondary schools, both public and private, throughout the Nation, and

WHEREAS national recognition of scholastic attainments will tend to enhance the accomplishments of such students generally and their potential after graduation:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as the  ). The   shall be composed of such members as the President may appoint from time to time from among appropriately qualified citizens of  . The person chosen  , with the cooperation of  ,  , and  , as National Teacher of the   shall be one of the members of the   for a period terminating   after the date of his or her selection as National Teacher of   at such earlier time as a next-succeeding National Teacher of   is chosen. The President shall designate one of the members as chairman of the  . Members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President and without compensation from  .

 . 2. The  , in accordance with such standards and procedures as it may prescribe and on the basis of its independent judgment, shall   choose Presidential Scholars, subject to the following:

(1) The Presidential Scholars shall be chosen from among persons who have recently been graduated, or are about to be graduated, from secondary schools, public or private.

(2) They shall be chosen on the basis of their outstanding scholarship.

(3) One boy and one girl shall be chosen as Presidential Scholars from each of the following, namely:

(i) Each State of  .

(ii)  .

(iii)  .

(iv) The following, collectively:  ,  ,  ,  , Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and, if the   in its discretion shall so determine, other places overseas. In respect of the said other places overseas, only children whose parents are citizens of   shall be eligible to be chosen hereunder as Presidential Scholars from those places.

(4) In addition to the 106 Presidential Scholars provided for in paragraph (3), above, the   may choose other Presidential Scholars, not exceeding fifteen in number for any one year, to be chosen at large from the jurisdictions referred to in that paragraph.

 . 3. There is hereby established   which shall be of such design and material as the President shall approve and shall be presented to each Presidential Scholar chosen by the   under this order.

 . 4. As necessary and subject to law,  ,  , and  , shall facilitate, or make arrangements for facilitating the carrying out of the purposes of this order.

 

 ,

 .
