Executive Order  — 
 
 

WHEREAS the   and   have been duly notified of my intention to terminate the designation of the  ,  ,  ,  , and   as economically less developed countries for purposes of the tax imposed by section 4911 of the Internal Revenue Code;

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 4916(b) of   of  , as added by section 2 of  , approved   (Public Law 88-563), by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Economically less developed countries. For purposes of the tax imposed by section 4911 of  , the following areas are designated as economically less developed countries:

(a) All foreign countries (including  ) in existence on or after the effective date of this order, other than  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and any foreign country within the   bloc, as defined in section 2:

(b) Each territory, department, province, and possession (other than the Bahamas,  , and  ), of any foreign country in existence on or after the effective date of this order, other than a foreign country within the   bloc, as defined in section 2, if the territory, department, province, or possession is overseas from the foreign country of which it is a territory, department, province,

(c)   and all possessions of  .

 . 2. Definition of the term "foreign country within the   bloc." For purposes of this order, the term "foreign country within the   bloc" shall mean  ,  , any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  ,  ,  ,  ,  , any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  ,  ,  ,  ,   (including any area under its provisional administration),  ,   of   and the   Sector of  ,  ,   and  , Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East Prussia which are under the provisional administration of  , and any part of   which is dominated or controlled by  .

 . 3. Prior acquisitions and commitments, Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 1 and 2 of this order, any area which had the status of an economically less developed country under section 4916(b) of   prior to the effective date of this order shall be deemed to be an economically less developed country for purposes of section 4916 with respect to an acquisition of stock or a debt obligation—

(a) If such acquisition was made prior to the effective date of this order;

(b) If such acquisition is made pursuant to an obligation to acquire which, prior to  , was unconditional or was subject only to conditions contained in a formal contract under which partial performance had occurred; or

(c) If, with respect to such acquisition, the acquiring   person (or, in a case where two or more   persons are making acquisitions as part of a single transaction, a majority in interest of such persons) had taken every action prior to  , to signify approval of the acquisition under the procedures ordinarily employed by such person (or persons) in similar transactions and had sent or deposited for delivery to the foreign person from whom the acquisition was made written evidence of such approval in the form of a commitment letter, memorandum of terms, draft purchase contract, or other document setting forth, or referring to a document sent by the foreign person from whom the acquisition was made which set forth, the principal terms of such acquisition, subject only to the execution of formal documents evidencing the acquisition and to customary closing conditions.

 . 4. Rules and regulations, The Secretary of the   or his delegate is authorized to prescribe from time to time regulations, rulings, directions, and instructions to carry out the purposes of this order.

 . 5. Effective date. This order shall become effective upon its filing for publication in  .

 . 6. Inapplicability of Executive Order  . Executive  .  , dated  , is hereby superseded to the extent that such order applies to section 4916 of  .

 

 ,

 .
