Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by   (62 Stat. 604), as amended? I hereby prescribe the following amendments of   prescribed by Executive Orders No.   of  , No. 10292 of  , No.  , No. 10650 of  , No.   of  , No. 10714 of June 13, 1957, No. 10809 of  , No.   of September 14,  , No. 10984 of  , and No. 11098 of  , and constituting portions of Chapter XVI of Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations:

1. (a) Subparagraphs (1), (2), (5), and (7) of paragraph (b) of section 1611.2 of Part  , Duty and Responsibility to  , are amended to read as follows:

"(1) He is a full-time official or employee of a foreign government, or a member of the immediate family or service staff of such official or employee, who has the status of a nonimmigrant under the provisions of section 101(a) (15) (A) of  , and who has been notified to  ;

"(2) He is a representative to, or a full-time official or employee of, a public international organization, or a member of the immediate family or service staff of such representative, official or employee, who has the status of a nonimmigrant under the provisions of section 101(a) (15) (G) of  ;"

* * * * *

"(5) He is a person who is within   temporarily under the provisions of section 101 (a) (15) (J) of   for the purpose of participating in a program designed by the Secretary of   pursuant to the provisions of   of  , as amended, and continues to pursue such purpose, or is the spouse or a minor child of any such person;"

* * * * *

"(7) He is a person who has entered   temporarily as a nonimmigrant under the provisions of section 101(a) (15) (F) of   solely for the purpose of pursuing a full course of study at an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study in  , particularly designated by him and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with   of  , and continues to pursue such purpose to the satisfaction of the Attorney General, or is the spouse or a minor child of any such person;"

(b) Paragraph (d) of section 1611.2 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"(d) Each alien who is in the category described in subparagraph (5) of paragraph (b) of this section must have in his possession and available for examination a visa or other official document issued to him by a diplomatic, consular, or immigration officer of   evidencing that he is within   pursuant to the provisions of section 101(a) (15) (J) of  ."

2. Section 1621.16 of Part  ,  ., is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1621.16 Permit to depart from  .

"The Director of Selective Service, the   Director of  , or the local board may issue to a registrant a permit to depart from the continental  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or the Canal Zone to any place which is not within any of those areas whenever the registrant's absence is not likely to interfere with the performance of his obligations under the Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended. Such permit shall be issued by the completion of a Permit for Registrant to   from   (SSS Form No. 300)."

3. (a) Paragraph (a) of section 1622.1 of Part  ,   Principles, is amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended, provides that every male citizen of  , every male alien admitted to   for permanent residence, arid every male alien who has remained in   in' a status other than that of permanent resident for a period exceeding  , who is   and   and  , shall be liable for training and service in  , and that persons who on  , or thereafter were deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of such Act that were in effect prior to  , shall remain liable for training and service until they attain  , and that persons who on  , were, or thereafter are, deferred under any other provision of section 6 of such Act shall remain liable for training and service until they attain  . Certain exemptions and deferments are specifically provided; others are authorized to be provided by regulations promulgated by the President."

(b) Section 1622.2 of Part   is amended by deleting from the list of classes appearing therein "Class I-Y: Registrant qualified for military service only in time of war or national emergency." and inserting in lieu thereof "Class I-Y: Registrant not eligible for a lower class who would be qualified for military service in time of war or national emergency.".

(c)   (a), (b), (e), and (f) of section 1622.13 of Part   are amended to read as follows:

"(a) In Class I-D shall be placed any registrant who prior to attaining   and  , and prior to  , became by enlistment or appointment a member of an organized unit of   or  . Such registrant shall remain eligible for Class I-D so long as he continues to serve satisfactorily as such member or as a member of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case may be.

"(b) In Class I-D shall be placed any registrant who (1) has been selected for enrollment or continuance in the senior division, Reserve Officers'  , or    , or    , or the   and   officer candidate training program, or the   officers' candidate program of the  , or the platoon leader's class of  . or the officer procurement programs of   and  , or is appointed an ensign,  , while undergoing professional training; (2) has agreed, in writing, to accept a commission, if tendered, and to serve subject to order of the Secretary of the military department having jurisdiction over him (or the Secretary of the   with respect to  ), not   on active duty after receipt of a commission; and (3) has agreed to remain a member of a regular or reserve component until the sixth anniversary of his receipt of a commission. Such registrant shall remain eligible for Class I-D until completion or termination of the course of instruction and so long thereafter as he continues in a reserve status upon being commissioned except during any period he is eligible for Class I-C under the provisions of section 1622.12." *****

"(e) In Class I-D shall be placed any registrant who prior to  , enlisted for   in a unit of   of any reserve component of   under the provisions of section 262 of   of  , as amended. Such registrant shall remain eligible for Class I-D so long as he continues to serve satisfactorily, as determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the department concerned, as a member of such reserve component or of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case maybe.

"(f) In Class I-D shall be placed any registrant, other than a registrant referred to in paragraph (b) or (g) of this section, who prior to attaining   and prior to the issuance of orders for him to report for induction, enlists or accepts appointment on or after  , in   of any reserve component of  ,  , or  . Such registrant shall remain eligible for Class I-D so long as he serves satisfactorily as a member of an organized unit of   or  , or satisfactorily performs such other   service as may be prescribed by the Secretary of  , or serves satisfactorily as a member of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case may be."

(d) Section 1622.17 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1622.17 Class I-Y: Registrant not eligible for a lower class who would be qualified for military service in time of war or national emergency.

"In Class I-Y shall be placed any registrant who, under the provisions of section 1623.2 of this chapter, is not eligible for a lower class, and would be classified in Class I-A, Class I-A-O, or Class I-O but for the fact that he is found under applicable physical, mental, and moral standards to be not currently qualified for service in   and who would be qualified for such service in time of war or national emergency declared by the  ."

(e) (1) Subparagraphs (1), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of paragraph (a) of section 1622.40 of Part   are amended to read as follows:

"(1) A registrant who subsequent to  , was discharged or transferred to a reserve component of   for the convenience of the Government after having served honorably on active duty for a period of not   in the  ,  , the  ,  , or  ." * * * * *

"(5) A registrant who after becoming a member of a unit of   of a reserve component of   by enlistment prior to  , under the provisions of section 262 of   of  , as amended, has continued to serve satisfactorily as such member or as a member of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case may be, and who has completed   of such satisfactory service during which he has performed an initial period of active duty for training of not  .

"(6) A registrant who after becoming a member of an organized unit of   or   by enlistment or appointment prior to attaining   and   and prior to  , has continued to serve satisfactorily as such member or as a member of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case may be, and who has completed   of such satisfactory service during which he has performed active duty for training with an armed force for not less than  .

"(7) A registrant who after becoming a member of   of any reserve component of  ,  , or   by enlistment or appointment on or after  , and prior to attaining  , has served satisfactorily as such member or as a member of another reserve component,  , or  , as the case may be, and who has completed   (or   if so obligated under the provision of section 6(d) (1) of  , as amended) of such satisfactory service during which he has performed active duty for training with an armed force for not less than  .

"(8) A registrant who after completion of   of satisfactory service as a member of one or more reserve components of   has ceased to be a member of any reserve component of  ."

(2) Subparagraph (9) of paragraph (a) of section 1622.40 is redesignated as subparagraph (10) and amended to read as follows:

"(10) A registrant who is the sole surviving son of a family of which the father or one or more sons or daughters were killed in action or died in line of duty while serving in  , or subsequently died as a result of injuries received or disease incurred during such service: Provided, That no registrant shall be placed or retained in Class IV-A under the provisions of this subparagraph (i) if he volunteers for induction, or (ii) during the period of a war or national emergency declared by the   after  ."

(3) A new subparagraph (9) is added to paragraph (a) of section 1622.40 to read as follows:

"(9) A registrant, other than a registrant referred to in subparagraph (5) or (6) of this paragraph, who has completed   of satisfactory service as a member of one or more of   including the reserve components thereof."

(f) Paragraph (a) of section 1622.44 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"(a) In Class IV-F shall be placed any registrant who is found under applicable physical, mental, and moral standards to be not qualified for any service in the   either currently or in time of war or national emergency declared by the  ."

(g) Paragraph (b) of section 1622.50 of Part   is amended to read as follows:

"(b) In Class V-A shall be placed every registrant who has attained the   anniversary of the day of his birth except (1) those registrants who are in active military service in   and are in Class I-C, (2) those registrants who are performing civilian work contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest in accordance with the order of the local board and are m Class I-W, (3) those registrants who have consented to induction, and (4) those registrants who on  , or at any time thereafter, were deferred under any provisions of section 6 of  , as amended, other than the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) of such section which were in effect prior to  . Except as is otherwise provided in this paragraph, registrants who prior to attaining the   anniversary of the day of their birth have been classified in some other class shall, as soon as practicable after attaining the   anniversary of the day of their birth, be reclassified into Class V-A."

4. Paragraph (b) of section 1623.1 of Part  ,  , is amended by striking out "he has been separated from the armed forces of   and the local board determines that he may be classified properly without requiring him to complete and return a Classification Questionnaire (SSS Form No. 100), or (3)".

5. Paragraph (a) of section 1624.1 of Part  ,  , is amended to read as follows:

"(a) Every registrant after his classification is determined by the local board, except a classification which is determined upon an appearance before the local board under the provisions of this part, shall have an opportunity to appear in person before the member or members of the local board designated for the purpose if he files a written request therefor within   after the local board has mailed a Notice of Classification (SSS Form No. 110) to him. Such   period may not be extended."

6. Section 1627.3 of Part  , Appeal to the President, is amended to read as follows:

"§ 1627.3 Appeal to President.

"When a registrant has been classified by the appeal board and one or more members of the appeal board dissented from that classification, the registrant, any person who claims to be a dependent of the registrant, or any person who prior to the classification appealed from filed a written request for the current occupational deferment of the registrant may appeal to the President within   after the mailing by the local board of   (SSS Form No. 110) notifying the registrant of this classification by the appeal board. The local board may permit any person who is entitled to appeal to the President under this section to do so, even though the   period for taking an appeal has elapsed, if it is satisfied that the failure of such person to appeal within such   period was due to a lack of understanding of the right to appeal or to some other cause beyond the control of such person."

7. Paragraph (b) of section 1630.4 of Part  ,  , is amended by adding the word "or" after the semicolon at the end thereof, paragraph (c) of section 1630.4 is revoked, and paragraph (d) is redesignated as paragraph (c).

8. Paragraph (a) of section 1631.8 of Part  ,   and Calls, is amended to read as follows:

"(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the regulations in this chapter, any registrant enlisted or appointed after  , in   of any reserve component of   (other than under section 511(b) of title 10, United States Code),  , or  , prior to attaining  , or any registrant enlisted or appointed in   or   prior to attaining   and   and prior to  , and deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of  , as amended, which were in effect prior to  , or any registrant enlisted in   of any reserve component of the   prior to attaining   and   and prior to  , and deferred under section 262 of   of  , as amended, who fails to serve satisfactorily during his obligated period of service as a member of such   or   or   of another reserve component or   of which he becomes a member as certified by the respective armed force, shall be ordered to report for induction by the local board regardless of the class in which he is classified and without changing his classification. Any registrant who is ordered to report for induction under this paragraph shall be forwarded for induction at the next time the local board is forwarding other registrants for induction or at any prior time when special arrangements have been made with the induction station, without any calls being made for the delivery of such registrants. Whenever the local board desires to deliver such a registrant specially, it shall request the   Director of   to make the special arrangements for the time and place at which the registrant may be delivered for induction."

9. Sections 1642.12 and 1642.13 of Part  ,  , are amended to read as follows:

"§ 1642.12 Classification of delinquent registrant.

"Any delinquent registrant between   and   and   and any delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 28 who was deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of  , as amended, which were in effect prior to  , and any delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and   who on  , was, or thereafter has been or may be, deferred under any other provision of section 6 of such Act, including the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) in effect on and after  , may be classified in or reclassified into Class I-A or Class I-A-O, whichever is applicable, regardless of other circumstances: Provided, That a delinquent registrant who by reason of his service in   is eligible for classification into Class IV-A may not be classified in or reclassified into Class I-A or Class I-A-0 under this section unless such action is specifically authorized by the Director of Selective Service.

"§ 1642.13 Certain delinquents to be ordered to report for induction.

"The local board shall order each delinquent registrant between   and   and   and each delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and 28 who was deferred under the provisions of section 6(c) (2) (A) of  , as amended, which were in effect prior to  , and each delinquent registrant between the ages of 26 and   who on  , was, or thereafter has been or may be, deferred under any other provisions of section 6 of such Act, including the provisions of subsection (c) (2) (A) in effect on and after  . who is classified in or reclassified into Class I-A or Class I-A-0 to report for induction in the manner provided in section 1631.7 of this chapter unless (a) it has already done so, or (b) pursuant to a written request of   Attorney, the local board determines not to order such registrant to report for induction."

10. Part  . Selection of Certain Persons Who Have Critical Skills for Enlistment in Units of   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .
