Executive Order 11382—Amendment of Executive Orders Relating to Functions of  
 
 

WHEREAS,  , 80 Stat. 931, hereinafter referred to as the Act, established   in   to be headed by a Secretary of   and to be composed of  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  ; and

WHEREAS, the Act vested in the Secretary of   new major responsibilities in the field of transportation, including that of exercising leadership under the direction of the President in transportation matters, and also transferred to the Secretary of   and to certain instrumentalities of   many functions involving transportation; and

WHEREAS, the transportation functions established or transferred by the Act involve additional activities which are currently assigned by Executive orders and other   documents to officers and agencies from whom the related statutory functions have been transferred by the Act; and

WHEREAS, it is appropriate and desirable with the establishment of   that certain authority and duties concerned with transportation be assigned to the Secretary of   or to officers and agencies under his jurisdiction:

Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code and by the laws cited as authority for the Executive orders amended below, and as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION 1. Classified information. (a) Executive Order No. 10501 of  , as amended, is further amended by—

(1) inserting " " in the list of departments and agencies in subsection (a) of section 2 thereof after " " and

(2) deleting " " from that list.   shall be deemed to have had authority for classification of information and material from  .

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is further amended by striking out the words "Administrator of  ", "Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Agency", and " " and inserting in place thereof "Secretary of  ", "Under Secretary of  ", and " ", respectively.

 . 2. Federal Airport Act. Executive  . 10536 of June 9,  , is amended by striking out the words "Administrator of Civil Aeronautics" and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ".

 . 3. Life saving medals. The regulations prescribed by section 1 of Executive Order No.   of   (being  § 9.1 et seq. of Chapter I of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations) are amended by—

(1) striking out the words " " and "Commission" in  § 9.1 and 9.3 and inserting in place thereof " " and "Department", respectively, and

(2) striking out all of  § 9.4,  , and 9.6 and inserting in place thereof the following:

"§ 9.4 Review of evidence; recommendations. Applications for medals, together with all affidavits, testimony, and other evidence received in connection therewith, and the records developed in connection with investigations initiated by  , shall be referred to a committee of three   officials designated by the Secretary of  . One of such officials shall be directly concerned with railroad safety, and another with motor-carrier safety. The committee shall carefully consider each application or record, and after thoroughly weighing the evidence shall prepare an abstract or brief covering the case and forward it, together with the committee's recommendation, to the Secretary of   for his consideration.

"§ 9.5 Award of Medals. Upon approval by the Secretary of   recommendation in any case, the Secretary shall make the award of the medal in the name and on behalf of the President.

"§ 9.6 Adoption and revision of designs. The Secretary of   is authorized to adopt and revise the existing designs for the medal, rosette, and ribbon provided for by the Act."

 . 4. Contracting authority. Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is further amended by inserting the words " " in the list of departments and agencies in section 21 thereof after the words " " and striking out of that list the words " ".

 . 5. Assignment of claims. (a) Executive Order No.   of  , is amended by striking out the words " " in the text and heading and inserting in place thereof the words " ".

(b) The utilization by   of the authority made available to it by section 5 (a) of this order shall be subject to direction and control by the Secretary of  .

 . 6. Extra-territorial jurisdiction. (a) Executive Order No.   of   (as limited by section 7 of Executive Order No.   of  ), is amended by striking out the words "Administrator of  " and "Administrator" and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ".

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by striking out the words "Administrator of  " and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ".

 . 7. International aviation. (a) The Presidential Memorandum of  , on the subject of Executive Order No.   of the same date, is amended by—

(1) striking out the words "Administrator of  " and "Administrator" and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  " and

(2) striking out the words " " and inserting in place thereof the words " " and

(3) striking out the second sentence of the third paragraph of the memorandum.

(b)    , assigning responsibility to the Secretary of   regarding international aviation policy, is amended by—

(1) striking out the words " " in the second paragraph and inserting in place thereof the words " " and

(2) striking out the last two sentences of the third paragraph and inserting in place thereof the following: "The other members will be the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , or their respective representatives, the Chairman of  , and  . The Secretary of   will serve as vice chairman."

 . 8.  .

Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is further amended by—

(1) striking out all of subsection (b) of section 1 thereof and inserting in place thereof the following:

"(b) The Board shall have as members the following:

(1) The Secretary of  , who shall be chairman of  .

(2) The Secretary of  .

(3) The Secretary of  .

(4) The Postmaster General.

(5) The Secretary of  .

(6) The Secretary of  , and  .

(7) The Chairman of  .

(8)  ." and

(2) striking out the word "Three" in subsection (d) of section 1 thereof and inserting in place thereof the word "Four".

 . 9. Allowances and benefits. Executive  .   of  , is amended by—

(1) striking out the words "Secretary of the  " and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  " and

(2) striking out all of section 101 and inserting in place thereof the following:

"SECTION 101. The term 'employee', as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5921(3), is hereby further defined as including civilian employees, compensated from non-appropriated funds, of the instrumentalities of   under the jurisdiction of the armed forces covered by 5 U.S.C. 2105(c)." and

(3) striking out the words "Section 203 of   (5 U.S.C.  )" in section 102 and inserting in place thereof the words "5 U.S.C. 5922(c)" and

(4) striking out the words "Section 1 of the Act of June 19, 1952, ch. 444 (5 U.S.C. 150k)" in section 201 and inserting in place thereof the words "5 U.S.C. 2105(c)" and

(5) striking out the words "Section 111(6) of   (5 U.S.C.   (6))" in section 202 (b) and inserting in place thereof the words "5 U.S.C. 5921(6)".

 . 10.  . Executive Order No.   of  , is hereby amended by striking out the words "Administrator of  " and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ".

 . 11. Wartime status. Executive  . 11161 of July 7,  , is hereby amended by—

(1) striking out the words "Administrator of  " the first time they appear in section 1 and the word "Administrator" in section 2 and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  " and

(2) striking out the words "Administrator of  " the other times they appear and inserting in place thereof the words " " and

(3) striking out the words " " in the text and heading and inserting in place thereof the words " " and

(4) striking out the word "Secretary" in section 2 and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ".

 . 12.  . Executive  .   of  , is amended by striking out the words "Administrator of  " and inserting the words "Secretary of  ".

 . 13.  .   listed below are further amended by striking out the words "Secretary of the  " and inserting in place thereof the words "Secretary of  ":

(1) Executive Order No. 10448 of  , as amended

(2) Executive Order No.   of   (3) Executive Order No.   of   (4) Executive Order No.   of   (5) Executive Order No.   of  

(6) Executive Order No. 11079 of  

(7) Executive Order No.  , as amended

(8) Executive Order No.   of  

(9) Executive Order No. 11231 of July 8,  

(10) Executive Order No.   of  

 . 14. Redelegation of authority. Unless prohibited by law or otherwise specified in the applicable order, and in addition to any other applicable authority to delegate and redelegate, the Secretary of   and   may redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of any authority conferred in this order or the orders amended by this order.

 . 15. Prior actions. All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, contracts, agreements, interpretations, rulings, directives, certificates, circulars, policies, licenses, privileges, awards, and other actions relating to any function affected by this order shall remain in effect according to their terms, except for the substitution of the appropriate official by or under the authority of this order, until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, amended, or revoked by appropriate authority, and nothing in this order shall affect the validity or force of anything done under previous delegations or other assignments of the functions affected by this order.

 . 16. Revocations. The following are revoked:

(1) Executive Order No. 10534 of June 9,  

(2) Executive Order No. 10771 of  

(3) Executive Order No.   of  

(4) Executive Order No.   of  .

 

 

 

NOTE: Executive Order   was not made public in the form of a   press release.
