Executive Order  —Establishing   for Appalachia
 
 

WHEREAS representatives of   and of the Governors of the States in the   region have been cooperating in the preparation of plans and programs for the long-range development of  ; and

WHEREAS such plans have provided for coordinated action by  , and local agencies in carrying out programs to further the development of   and to facilitate and encourage private investment in that area; and

WHEREAS the Governors of various States of the   region have requested that such cooperation be continued; and

WHEREAS the proper discharge by   of its responsibilities to the people of the   region requires that such cooperation be continued and that related planning activities of   be effectively coordinated:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

SECTION I. Establishment of Committee. (a) There is hereby established   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the following: (1) a Chairman, who shall be appointed by the President, (2) members, one of whom shall be designated by and represent each of the following-named officers, respectively: the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  , the Secretary of the  ,  , and the Director of  , and (3) a member who shall represent   and shall be designated by the board of directors of the  .

(c) The Chairman may request any   agency head not referred to in subsection (b), above, to designate a representative to participate in meetings of the   concerned with matters of substantial interest to such agency head.

 . 2. Functions of the Chairman. (a) The Chairman shall cooperate with representatives designated by the Governors of States in the   region in:

(1) Fostering surveys and studies to provide data required for the preparation of plans and programs for the development of  ;

(2) Preparing coordinated plans for the development of   deemed appropriate to carry out existing statutory responsibilities of  , or local agencies. Such plans shall be designed to promote optimum benefits from the expenditure of  , and local funds and to facilitate and promote private investment in the development of  ; and

(3) Preparing legislative and other recommendations with respect to both short-range and long-range programs and projects for  , or local agencies.

(b) With the approval of the agency head concerned the Chairman may arrange for recommended surveys and studies to be made by any Federal agency with respect to matters falling within the existing statutory authorities and responsibilities of that agency.

 . 3. Functions of the Committee. The   shall:

(a) Advise the Chairman with respect to (z) surveys and studies needed for the preparation of development plans, (2) the concrete proposals for surveys and studies developed by the Chairman in cooperation with the representatives of the Governors, and (3) desirable development objectives and programs for the   region.

(b) Receive, review, and comment on all tentative development plans or other tentative recommendations developed by the Chairman in cooperation with the representatives of the Governors; and

(c) Receive and consider final plans and recommendations and transmit them, with its own comments, to the President and the heads of interested Federal agencies.

 . 4. Administrative arrangements. (a) If the Chairman of the   does not concurrently hold other compensated office or employment under  , he shall receive such compensation under this order as shall be fixed in accordance with the standards and procedures of the Classification Act of  , as amended.

(b)   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for the   and for the Chairman.

(c) Each Federal agency the head of which is referred to in Section 1(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to the   in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

(d) Each Federal agency shall, consonant with law and within the limits of available funds, cooperate with the   and with the Chairman in carrying out their functions under this order. Such cooperation shall include, as may be appropriate, (1) furnishing relevant available information, (2) making studies and preparing reports pursuant to requests of the Chairman, (3) in connection with the development of programs and priorities of the agency, giving full consideration to any plans and recommendations for the development of  , including recommendations made by the  , and (4) advising on the work of the   as the Chairman may from time to time request.

 . 5. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency, to the authority of the Committee or the Chairman, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

 

 ,

 

Note: On    , in announcing the establishment of   for  , made public a portion of the President's letter to  , Special Assistant to Under Secretary of Commerce  , Jr., appointing him Chairman of the  . In his letter the President said: "From your previous work in connection with the problems of  , you are familiar with the tasks confronting the  . Also, you are aware of my concern for the people of   and of my deep and continuing interest in the economic development of the   region."
