Executive Order  —  for  
 
 

WHEREAS   for   has substantially completed the execution of those of its functions which pertain to the reconstruction of   following the earthquake of  ; and

WHEREAS   and   continue to have a common interest in assuring the most effective use of   and State programs and funds in advancing the long-range progress of the  ; and

WHEREAS such effective use is dependent upon coordination of Federal and State programs which affect the general economic development of the   and the long-range conservation and use of its natural resources and upon cooperative   and State effort with respect to the planning of such programs; and

WHEREAS the State of   has established a   body the duties of which include planning for the general economic development of the   and the long-range conservation and use of its natural resources; and

WHEREAS the authorities of   are desirous of arranging coordinated and cooperative   and State approaches to the planning and execution of such programs:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of  , it is ordered as follows:

Part  

Section 1. Establishment of Field Committee. (a) There is hereby established   in   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members: (1) a Chairman, who shall be appointed by the President, (2) nine members who shall be designated by and represent the following named officers, respectively: the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  ,  ,  , and  , (3) one member who shall represent   and shall be designated by the Chairman of that  , and (4) two public members who shall be appointed by the President.

(c) The Chairman may request any head of a Federal agency who is not referred to in subsection (b), above, to designate a representative to participate in meetings of   concerned with matters of substantial interest to such Federal agency head.

(d) The principal place of business of the   shall be located in    .

 . 2. Functions of  . (a) Subject to the general direction and guidance of   in   (established by the provisions of Part II of this order; hereinafter sometimes referred to as  "), the   shall serve as the principal instrumentality for developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to economic and resources development in   and for recommending appropriate action by   to carry out such plans.

(b) The   shall cooperate with representatives designated by the Governor of   for purposes related to this order in accomplishing the following:

(1) Making or fostering surveys and studies to provide data for the development of plans and programs for economic and resources development in  .

(2) Preparing and keeping current coordinated plans for economic and resources development in   deemed appropriate to carry out existing statutory responsibilities and policies of  , or local agencies. Such plans shall be designed to promote optimum benefits from the expenditures of  , and local funds for consistent objectives and purposes.

(3) Preparing legislative and other recommendations with respect to both short-range and long-range programs and projects for  , or local agencies.

 . 3.   procedures. (a) The   shall meet at the call of its Chairman.

(b)   may prescribe such regulations relating to the conduct of its affairs as it may deem to be necessary and not inconsistent with the provisions of this order.

(c)   may establish such subcommittees of that   as may be necessary.

(d) Activities carried on by personnel employed by or detailed to   (1) shall be carried out in accordance with such policies and programs as may be approved by  , and (2) shall be under the direction and supervision of the Chairman or, to such extent as may be determined by the Chairman, under the direction of a principal member of   staff.

(e) The   shall transmit copies of plans or recommendations tentatively formulated by it to  , the heads of interested Federal agencies, and the Governor of  , for review and comment. The   shall consider any comments received by it within   in pursuance of such transmittal and may revise the plans and recommendations as it may deem appropriate.

(f) The   shall transmit copies of its revised plans and recommendations, together with copies of any comments with respect to the tentative plans or recommendations received by   in pursuance of the provisions of subsection (d), above, to the Governor of   and to  .

 . 4. Personnel; compensation. (a) The Chairman of   is authorized to appoint such personnel as may be necessary to assist   in connection with the performance of its functions and to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act of   (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b) The Chairman of the   shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed in accordance with the standards and procedures of the Classification Act of  , as amended.

(c) Each member of   appointed under the provisions of Section 1(b)(4) hereof may receive compensation for   he is engaged in meetings of that   or is with the approval of the Chairman of   engaged in other work in pursuance of the provisions of this order (5 U.S.C.  ).

(d) Members and personnel of   may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law.

 . 5. Financing agency cooperation. (a) Each Federal agency the head of which is referred to in Section 1(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to   in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691). In general, each such Federal agency shall, consonant with law, extend its cooperation to   in connection with the carrying out of the functions of  , including, as may be appropriate, (1) the furnishing of relevant available information to  , (2) the making of studies and the preparation of reports in pursuance of requests of  , and (3) in connection with the development of programs and priorities of the agency, the giving of full consideration to any plans and recommendations made by  .

(b) Federal agencies the heads of which are not referred to in Section 1 (b) of this order shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish the   such information or advice bearing upon the work of   as the Chairman thereof may from time to time request.

Part II.  . 11.  . (a) There is hereby established   in   (hereinafter referred to as  ").

(b)   shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of  , who shall be the Chairman, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and  ,  ,  ,  , the Chairman of  , and two public members who shall be appointed by the President. Each member of  , other than a public member, may designate an alternate to represent him at meetings of   which he is unable to attend.

(c)   shall meet at least once each calendar year, at the call of its Chairman.

(d)   may prescribe such regulations relating to the conduct of its affairs as it may deem to be necessary and not inconsistent with the provisions of this order.

 . 12. Functions of  .   shall provide general direction and guidance to  ; receive, review, and comment on the tentative plans or recommendations of  ; and receive and consider the final plans and recommendations of   and transmit them, together with its own comments, to the President and the heads of interested Federal agencies.

 . 13. Compensation; travel expenses. (a) Each public member of   may receive compensation for   he is engaged in meetings of that   or is with the approval of the Chairman of   engaged in other work in pursuance of the provisions of this order (5 U.S.C.  ).

(b) Members and personnel of   may be allowed travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law.

 . 14. Assistance by agencies. Each Federal agency the head of which is referred to in Section 11(b) of this order shall, as may be necessary, furnish assistance to   in accordance with the provisions of Section 214 of the Act of   (59 Stat. 134; 31 U.S.C. 691).

 . 15. Administrative services.   is hereby designated as the agency which shall provide administrative services for  .

Part III.  . 31. Functions related to earthquake. The provisions of Section 41 hereof notwithstanding and so long as the President's declaration of a major disaster with respect to the earthquake which occurred in   on  , remains in effect, the Director of   shall carry out the functions (heretofore assigned to   for   by the provisions of Executive Order No. 11150 of  ) of developing coordinated plans for Federal programs which contribute to reconstruction in   and recommending appropriate action by   to carry out such plans.

Part IV.  

Sec. 41. Termination of existing Commission. (a) Executive Order No. 11150 of   (29 F.R.  ), is hereby revoked and   for   established thereby is abolished.

(b) The Director of   shall make such arrangements related to the termination of the said   as he may deem necessary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the said Director is authorized, as he shall deem to be necessary or appropriate, to assign to Federal agencies duties with respect to the liquidation of the outstanding affairs of the   and to effect or arrange the transfer of records, property, personnel, and funds of the   to other Federal agencies.

(c) Nothing in this order shall preclude or limit the transferability, pursuant to law, of unobligated balances of funds appropriated for the   abolished by Section 41(a) of this order (78 Stat. 209) or the use of such balances in connection with this order.

 .  . Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed as subjecting any Federal agency, or any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency, to the authority of any other Federal agency, or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.

Sec 43. Definition. Except as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this order or otherwise inappropriate, the term "Federal agency", as used herein, includes any department or other agency or instrumentality of the executive branch of   and any officer thereof (including   and  ).

 

 ,

 .
