Executive Order  —Providing for the Transfer of Lands in   from   to  ;   in   to  ;   in   to  ; and  ,  
 
 

WHEREAS it is in the public interest to transfer to  ,  , certain lands which were included within  ,  , by Proclamation No. 2263 of   (51 Stat. 404); and

WHEREAS certain public lands acquired under authority of Title III of   Tenant Act, as amended (7 TJ.S.C.  ), are suitable for national forest purposes and can be most efficiently administered as part of  ,  ; and

WHEREAS certain lands comprising a part of  ,  , were inadvertently omitted from the land description contained in Executive Order No. 10851 of  , which was designed to transfer all lands comprising the project to  ,  ; and

WHEREAS it is in the public interest that those omitted lands be included in  ; and

WHEREAS certain minor overlaps and voids exist between portions of the boundaries of  ,  , and  ,  ; and

WHEREAS the lands in those voids are public lands acquired under authority of Title III of   Tenant Act, as amended (7 IT.S.C.  ), and are suitable for national forest purposes; and

WHEREAS it is in the public interest that the lands in the voids be added to   and the lands in the overlaps be excluded therefrom so that the boundary of the   coincides with the boundary of  :

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 24 of the Act of   (26 Stat.  ), as amended (16 U.S.C. 471), and the Act of   (30 Stat.  ,  ; 16 U.S.C. 473), and upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is ordered that—

(1) The lands described in Proclamation No. 2263 of  , and shown by diagram attached thereto, are hereby excluded from  ,  , and transferred to and made a part of  ,  .

(2) Lands comprising  , T. 3 N., R. 1 W., 2nd  , are, subject to valid existing rights, hereby added to and made a part of  ,  .

(3) Lands comprising fractional sections 22,  , and 34, T. 7 S.,   27 E.,  , are, subject to valid existing rights, hereby added to and made a part of  ,  .

(4) (A) The following-described lands are hereby excluded from  ,  :

 

T. 16 N.,   13 E.,

 . 23, that part lying south and east of the Louisville-Starkville Road which is east of the Betheden Road;

 . 26, those parts of the W% lying east of the Betheden Road.

  14 E.,

 .  , that part lying south and east of the Louisville-Starkville Road.

(B) The following-described lands are, subject to valid existing rights, hereby added to and made a part of   

T. 16 N.,   13 E.,

 . 26, that part of the Ey2 lying west of the Betheden Road;

 .  , that part lying west of the Betheden Road.

(5) Proclamation No. 2263 of  , is hereby superseded.

 

 ,

 .
