1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Recognizing Gun Violence as a Public Health Emergency Act
.
2.
Report on effects of gun violence on public health
(a)
In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in coordination with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall submit to the Congress a report on—
(1)
the effects on public health of gun violence in the United States during the preceding calendar year; and
(2)
the status of actions taken to address such effects.
(b)
Contents
The report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
Data on fatal and nonfatal firearm incidents, disaggregated by age, sex, race, and gender identity of the victim.
(2)
ZIP Code- or census tract-level data on fatal and nonfatal firearm incidents.
(3)
The impacts of gun violence on communities (including communities of color) and community members (including young people, health care workers, and other categories of community members as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services).
(4)
The impacts of gun violence on physical and mental health.
(5)
Data on active community-based gun violence prevention programs and the impacts of such programs, disaggregated by ZIP Code or census tract.
(6)
Data on rates of firearm deaths and injuries, disaggregated by—
(A)
whether the incident involved—
(i)
homicide or assault;
(ii)
partner violence;
(iii)
suicide or self-harm;
(iv)
law enforcement; or
(v)
terrorism;
(B)
whether the incident was unintentional;
(C)
whether the cause of the incident was undetermined; and
(D)
whether the incident belongs in such other categories as are determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(7)
Data on the types of firearms used in fatal and nonfatal firearm incidents, including—
(A)
handguns;
(B)
long guns;
(C)
ghost guns;
(D)
semiautomatic long guns;
(E)
guns that were stolen;
(F)
guns that were not stolen;
(G)
whether the firearm was owned by the victim or a family member of the victim; and
(H)
other types of firearms as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(8)
Data on the implementation, effectiveness, and availability of—
(A)
firearm violence intervention programs;
(B)
lethal means counseling programs;
(C)
school prevention programs, including lockdown drills, threat assessment programs, and
hardening
of schools;
(D)
extreme risk protection orders;
(E)
use of domestic violence-related restrictions on firearm ownership;
(F)
communication of the conditions used in conjunction with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System to determine whether an individual is prohibited from purchasing a firearm; and
(G)
safe storage laws.
(9)
Data on funding levels for firearm injury prevention research.
(10)
Data on the frequency at which funding such research translates into publication of research results.
(11)
Data on the degree to which the funding such research translates into community-level interventions.
(12)
Other information and data as determined appropriate by the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(c)
Supplement not supplant
The research done for purposes of developing the report required under subsection (a) shall be designed to supplement not supplant other research of the Department of Health and Human Services or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
