1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Public Oversight of Detention Centers Act of 2024
or as the
POD Act of 2024
.
2.
Congressional oversight of detention facilities
(a)
Prohibition on limitations on oversight of detention facilities
Chapter 4 of title II of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
244A.
Prohibition on limitations on oversight of detention facilities
(a)
In general
A covered person may not be prevented from entering immediately, or, in the case of a person described in subsection (c)(2) by not later than 24 hours after making a request to do so, for the purpose of conducting oversight, any facility operated by or for the Department of Homeland Security (including any facility operated by a private contractor with the Department) used to detain or otherwise house aliens, or nor may any temporary modification be made at any such facility that in any way alters what is observed by a visiting Member of Congress, compared to what would be observed in the absence of such modification.
(b)
Facilities housing alien minors
A covered person may not be prevented from entering by not later than two business days after making a request to do so, for the purpose of conducting oversight, any facility operated by or for the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Health and Human Services (including any facility operated by a private contractor with either Department) used to detain or otherwise house alien minors, or to make any temporary modification at any such facility that in any way alters what is observed by a visiting Member of Congress, compared to what would be observed in the absence of such modification.
(c)
Covered person
For purposes of this section, the term
covered person
means the following:
(1)
A Member of Congress.
(2)
An employee of the House of Representatives or the Senate designated by such a Member for purposes of this section.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents for such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 244 the following:
244A. Prohibition on limitations on oversight of detention facilities.
.
