1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secure DOD Act
.
2.
Prohibition on certain foreign information technology products
(a)
In general
Except as provided by subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may not acquire any information technology product manufactured, produced, or assembled by a covered company.
(b)
Exceptions
Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to any information technology product that is a replacement or replacement part for, or necessary for the operation or maintenance of, an information technology product acquired by the Department of Defense—
(1)
before the date of the enactment of this Act; or
(2)
after such date under a contract or other agreement other than a contract or other agreement entered into, renewed, or extended after such date.
(c)
Waiver
(1)
Waiver authority
(A)
In general
The Secretary of Defense may, upon the request of an entity, waive subsection (a) with respect to an information technology product if—
(i)
the Secretary determines that a compliant information technology product of satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity cannot be procured as and when needed at United States market prices; and
(ii)
such entity demonstrates to the Secretary that such entity is making reasonable efforts to make such information technology product a compliant information technology product or to replace such information technology product with a compliant information technology product.
(B)
Compliant information technology product defined
In this paragraph, the term
compliant information technology product
means an information technology product that is not manufactured, produced, or assembled by a covered company.
(2)
Duration
A waiver under paragraph (1) may be for a period of not more than one year.
(3)
Congressional notice
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense issues a waiver under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a notice of such waiver.
(d)
Applicability
Except as provided in subsection (b), subsection (a) shall apply only with respect to contracts and other agreements entered into, renewed, or extended after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(e)
Effective date
This section shall take effect on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(f)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered commercially available off-the-shelf item
The term
covered commercially available off-the-shelf item
means a commercially available off-the-shelf item (as defined in section 104 of title 41, United States Code) that is an end product.
(2)
Covered company
The term
covered company
means an entity that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the National Intelligence or the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be owned or controlled by, or otherwise connected to, the government of a covered foreign country.
(3)
Covered foreign country
The term
covered foreign country
means the People’s Republic of China.
(4)
Information technology product
The term
information technology product
means a covered commercially available off-the-shelf item that can process, store, or transmit digital data.
