1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Training Responsible And Informed National VA Employees Act
or the
TRAIN VA Employees Act
.
2.
Training program for certain senior executives and supervisors
(a)
Program required
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop a training program for all covered employees. Such training shall be mandatory for all such covered employees and for any individual who is hired to be such an covered employee.
(b)
Consultation
In developing the training required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the heads of at least three other Federal departments and agencies, including the Department of Defense, to gather information about how such departments and agencies approach management training.
(c)
Current employees
Any individual who as of the date of the enactment of this Act is an covered employee shall be required, as a condition of continued employment at the Department of Veterans Affairs, to complete the training program developed under subsection (a) by not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Refresher training
The Secretary shall develop a refresher training program for the program required under subsection (a), and each covered employee shall be required, as a condition of continued employment at the Department of Veterans Affairs, to complete such refresher training once every two years.
(e)
Design of training
The training program required under subsection (a) shall be designed using principles of adult learning and industry standard instructional design. To the extent practicable, the training shall—
(1)
be instructor-based and provided in-person; and
(2)
focus on—
(A)
developing and discussing relevant performance goals and objectives with the employees they supervise;
(B)
communicating and discussing employees’ progress relative to performance goals and objectives, and conducting performance appraisals;
(C)
mentoring and motivating employees and improving employee engagement, performance, and productivity;
(D)
effectively managing employees with unacceptable performance, including training to understand the disciplinary options and procedures available to the supervisor;
(E)
prohibited personnel practices, employee rights, and the procedures and processes used to enforce employee rights;
(F)
effectively using the probationary period to examine whether an employee has demonstrated successful performance or conduct to continue past the probationary period;
(G)
addressing reports of a hostile work environment, retaliation, or harassment of, or by, another supervisor or employee;
(H)
collaborating with human resources employees to recruit, select, appraise, and reward employees to build a workforce based on organizational goals, budget considerations, and staffing needs; and
(I)
carrying out the duties or responsibilities of a supervisor.
(f)
Covered employee defined
In this section, the term
covered employee
means an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who is—
(1)
a supervisor (as defined in section 7103(a) of title 5, United States Code); or
(2)
a covered individual under section 713 of title 38, United States Code.
