1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding Knowledge on Military Reproductive Healthcare Act
.
2.
Provision of information regarding access to reproductive health care to a TRICARE beneficiary
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense shall provide, to a beneficiary under the TRICARE program (including a member of the uniformed services), information on the following:
(1)
The reproductive health care, including abortion care, that they are entitled to receive under the military health system.
(2)
The circumstances under which they can receive such care at a military treatment facility.
(3)
How to request leave and travel benefits for travel to another State to receive non-covered reproductive health care.
(4)
How to find a non-Department provider of reproductive health care not available to the beneficiary under the military health system.
(b)
Schedule
The Secretary shall provide information described in subsection (a)—
(1)
at least once per year; and
(2)
not later than 14 days after a permanent change of station or a temporary change in station.
(c)
Methods
The Secretary may provide information under this section through an in-person consultation or a written notice. Such a written notice may be provided electronically.
(d)
Public posting
The Secretary shall ensure that a written notice under subsection (c) is posted, and copies thereof are available for collection, in publicly accessible areas of each military medical treatment facility.
3.
Training for military treatment facility providers on reproductive health care obligations
Each health care provider working at a military treatment facility shall receive training, on an annual basis and in the event of any permanent change in duty station, on the following:
(1)
The obligation of each such provider to provide covered reproductive health care and counseling, including abortion, contraceptive, and fertility care, and such provider’s ability to provide that care and counseling at military treatment facilities notwithstanding the laws and regulations of the State in which the facility is located.
(2)
The rights and the protections afforded to such providers as providers at military treatment facilities with regard to covered reproductive health care, notwithstanding laws and regulations of the State in which the treatment facility is located.
