1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Black Panther Party National Historical Park Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
The Black Panther Party was an integral part of the civil rights movement and its history and influence is nationally significant.
(2)
The United States government has not provided a publicly accessible space to learn about the history of the Black Panther Party and their contributions to social progress nationwide.
(3)
National Park Service has the opportunity to engage with a large new audience and tell a more holistic history of the United States by interpreting the histories of people of color.
(4)
The Black Panther Party, originally called the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, was established in Oakland, California in 1966 by Huey P. Newton (Minister of Defense from 1966–1981) and Bobby Seale (Chairman of the Black Panther Party from 1966–1974), who met at Merritt College in Oakland. Oakland, California, was the home of the Black Panther Party, which came to include more than forty chapters around the United States and numerous others elsewhere in the world.
(5)
The Black Panther Party was founded in Oakland, California, to address systemic poverty and protect the Black community from police brutality. Although they intended on being a local organization, communities across the country were empowered by their message and services, leading to the establishment of over 40 chapters across the United States and many multi-racial and class coalitions.
(6)
DeFremery Park is perhaps Oakland’s best known site for many of the Black Panther Party’s free community programs, political demonstrations, rallies, and fundraisers. Panthers and community members continue to hold a myriad of programs and direct services at DeFremery Park to commemorate this legacy.
(7)
In 1973, the Black Panther Party established the Oakland Community School, an elementary school that took a holistic approach to education, centered around Black history, encouraged civic participation, fed students, and performed health screenings. California is now in the process of establishing
community schools
statewide.
(8)
Starting in 1968, the Black Panther Party established dozens of free medical clinics across the United States. Then through those clinics, in 1970 the Black Panther Party launched the first nationwide sickle cell anemia testing program, which directly influenced Congress’ decision to pass the National Sickle Cell Anemia Control Act of 1972.
(9)
In January 1969, the Black Panther Party created the first
Free Breakfast for School Children Program
in the Nation, eventually feeding hundreds of thousands of children across the United States and becoming a model for today’s Federal school breakfast program.
(10)
David Hilliard and Fredrika Newton established the Dr. Huey P. Newton Foundation to educate both the local community and visitors from around the world on the history and principles of the Black Panther Party and its co-founder Dr. Huey P. Newton.
(11)
The cities of Oakland, Berkeley, and Richmond unanimously adopted resolutions urging the National Park Service to conduct a reconnaissance survey to determine the appropriateness of a National Park Service unit to recognize the historical significance and contributions of the Black Panther Party. The resolutions also urge President Biden to use the results of the survey to establish a National Park unit including a Visitors Center and Museum through the Antiquities Act. These are the first 3 cities in the United States to adopt such resolutions.
(12)
On February 17, 2021, Ninth Street at the intersection of Mandela Parkway in Oakland, California, was renamed after the Black Panther Party co-founder: Dr. Huey P. Newton Way.
(13)
On March 4, 2021, Congresswoman Barbara Lee requested the National Park Service launch a reconnaissance survey in regard to the Black Panther Party, especially with regard to the sites in and around Oakland, California, that would be suitable for National Historical Park designation.
(14)
On January 10, 2022, the bust of Dr. Huey P. Newton was unveiled at Dr. Huey P. Newton Way and Mandela Parkway, near the spot where Newton was murdered in 1989.
(15)
On July 19, 2022, Oakland City Council unanimously approved the Dr. Huey P. Newton Foundation to enter into a lease agreement with the City Administrator to establish the Black Panther Party Museum.
3.
Purposes
The purposes of the National Historical Park are—
(1)
to preserve and protect for the benefit of present and future generations the nationally significant historic resources associated with the Black Panther Party;
(2)
to improve public understanding of the legacy of the Black Panther Party through interpretation of the historic resources associated with the Black Panther Party; and
(3)
to enhance public access to preserve and protect the historically significant resources associated with the Black Panther Party.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
National historical park
The term
National Historical Park
means the Black Panther Party National Historical Park established by section 5(a)(1).
(2)
Map
The term
Map
means the map entitled ____, numbered __, and dated ____.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
5.
Establishment of the Black Panther Party National Historical Park
(a)
Establishment
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), there is established the Black Panther Party National Historical Park in the State of California, as a unit of the National Park System, to preserve and educate the history and impact of the Black Panther Party and the nationally significant role it played in the history of the United States.
(2)
Conditions
The National Historical Park shall not be established until the date on which the Secretary acquires sufficient land within the boundaries of the National Historical Park to constitute a manageable unit.
(b)
Boundaries
The boundaries of the National Historical Park shall be the boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
(c)
Availability of map
The Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
(d)
Other resources
The Secretary may include in the National Historical Park boundary any resources that are the subject of an agreement under subsection (g).
(e)
Boundary adjustment
On the acquisition of additional land or interests in land or on entering an agreement under subsection (g), the boundary of the National Historical Park shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition or agreement by publishing a National Historical Park boundary map in the Federal Register. The map shall be available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
(f)
Land acquisition
The Secretary may acquire any land or interest in land located within the boundary of the National Historical Park, by—
(1)
donation;
(2)
purchase with donated or appropriated funds; or
(3)
exchange.
(g)
Cooperative agreements
(1)
In general
The Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with the city of Oakland, the State of California, political subdivisions of the State of California, institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations (such as the Huey P. Newton Foundation), and individuals for the purposes of carrying out this Act.
(2)
Cost-sharing requirement
(A)
Federal share
The Federal share of the total cost of any activity carried out under a cooperative agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall be not more than 50 percent.
(B)
Form of non-Federal share
The non-Federal share may be in the form of in-kind contributions or goods or services fairly valued.
(h)
Related sites
The Secretary may provide technical assistance, visitor services, interpretive tours, and educational programs to sites and resources associated with the purposes for which the National Historical Park is established.
(i)
Administration
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall administer the National Historical Park in accordance with—
(A)
this Act; and
(B)
the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System.
(2)
Management plan
(A)
Deadline for completion
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made available to carry out this subsection, the Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the National Historical Park—
(i)
in consultation with the States and other interested parties; and
(ii)
in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(B)
Submission to congress
On completion of the general management plan under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit that general management plan to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
