1.
Establishment of grant program for the transportation of veterans who reside in highly rural areas to medical facilities
(a)
Establishment
Chapter 1
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting, after section 111A, the following new section:
111B.
Grants for the transportation of veterans who reside in highly rural areas to medical facilities
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary shall award grants to entities that provide transportation of veterans who reside in highly rural areas to medical facilities.
(b)
Eligible entities
The following may be awarded a grant under this section:
(1)
A State veterans service agency.
(2)
A veterans service organization.
(c)
Use of funds
A grant under this section may be used to—
(1)
assist a veteran who resides in a highly rural area to travel to a medical facility of the Department; or
(2)
otherwise assist in providing transportation in connection with the provision of health care to a veteran who resides in highly rural area.
(d)
Maximum amount
The amount of a grant under this section may not exceed $50,000.
(e)
No matching requirement
An entity awarded a grant under this section shall not be required to provide matching funds as a condition for receiving such grant.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2030 to carry out this section.
(g)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
highly rural area
means an area located in—
(A)
a county in which fewer than seven individuals reside per square mile; or
(B)
Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, or Puerto Rico (not including the San Juan Census Designated Place), that the Secretary determines is not urban in character.
(2)
The term
veterans service organization
means an organization recognized by the Secretary under section 5902 of this title.
.
(b)
Table of sections
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting, after the item relating to section 111A, the following new item:
111B. Grants for the transportation of veterans who reside in highly rural areas to medical facilities.
.
