1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Space Technology and Regional Security Act of 2024
or
STARS Act of 2024
.
2.
Middle East integrated space and satellite security capability
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall seek to build upon the historic opportunities created by the Abraham Accords and the incorporation of Israel into the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command to develop a Middle East integrated space and satellite security strategy and a multilateral data-sharing agreement for the purpose of protecting the people, infrastructure, and territory of ally and partner countries in the Middle East from hostile activities conducted by adversaries against space systems of the United States or such countries.
(b)
Strategy
(1)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a strategy for the cooperation described in subsection (a).
(2)
Matters to be included
The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
An assessment of the threats posed to the United States and ally or partner countries in the Middle East by adversaries conducting hostile activities—
(i)
against space systems of the United States or such countries; and
(ii)
using capabilities positioned or transiting through space.
(B)
A description of progress made in—
(i)
advancing the integration of Israel into existing multilateral space and satellite security partnerships; or
(ii)
establishing such partnerships with Israel.
(C)
A description of efforts among ally and partner countries in the Middle East to coordinate intelligence, reconnaissance, and surveillance capabilities and indicators and warnings with respect to the threats described in subparagraph (A), and a description of any impediment to optimizing such efforts.
(D)
An assessment of any current capability gaps in the ability of the Department of Defense to provide space situational awareness in the Middle East.
(E)
A description of the current Department of Defense systems that provide awareness of and defend against such threats.
(F)
An explanation of the manner in which a multilateral space situational awareness data-sharing agreement and an integrated space and satellite security architecture would improve collective security in the Middle East.
(G)
A description of existing and planned efforts to engage ally and partner countries in the Middle East in establishing such a multilateral space situational awareness data-sharing agreement and an integrated space and satellite security architecture.
(H)
An identification of the elements of such an integrated space and satellite security architecture that may be acquired and operated by ally and partner countries in the Middle East, and a list of such elements for each such ally and partner.
(I)
An identification of the elements of such an integrated space and satellite security architecture that may only be provided and operated by members of the United States Armed Forces.
(J)
An identification of any challenge to optimizing such a multilateral space situational awareness data-sharing agreement and integrated space and satellite security architecture in the Middle East.
(K)
An assessment of progress and key challenges in the implementation of the strategy required by paragraph (1) using the metrics identified in accordance with paragraph (3).
(L)
Recommendations for improvements in the implementation of an integrated space and satellite security strategy based on such metrics.
(M)
A cost estimate of establishing an integrated space and satellite security strategy, and an assessment of the resources that could be contributed by ally and partner countries of the United States to establish and strengthen such capabilities.
(N)
Any other matter the Secretary of Defense considers relevant.
(3)
Metrics
The Secretary of Defense shall identify metrics to assess progress in the implementation of the strategy required by paragraph (1).
(4)
Form
The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Protection of sensitive information
Any activity carried out under this section shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information and the national security interests of the United States.
(d)
Appropriate committees of Congress defined
In this section, the term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
