1.
Card skimming and cloning Information for SNAP recipients
State agencies that administer the supplemental nutrition assistance program under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2012 et seq.
) shall inform recipients of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits of—
(1)
the risks of card skimming, card cloning, and similar fraudulent methods, used by criminals to steal such benefits from a recipient’s electronic benefits transfer card;
(2)
the precautions a recipient can take to avoid falling victim to card skimming, card cloning, or similar fraudulent methods;
(3)
the claims process, as established by the relevant State agency, through which a recipient can have benefits stolen through card skimming, card cloning, or similar fraudulent methods, replaced with Federal or State funds; and
(4)
the process by which a recipient can report stolen benefits due to card skimming, card cloning, or similar fraudulent methods to the State agency.
2.
Card skimming and cloning information for WIC participants
State agencies that administer the special supplemental nutrition assistance program for women, infants, and children under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (
42 U.S.C. 1786
) shall inform participants in the program of the information described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 1.
3.
Card skimming and cloning information for TANF recipients
(a)
In general
Section 403(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 603(a)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(D)
Requirement to inform recipients about card skimming and cloning
State agencies administering the State program funded under this part for the fiscal year must provide each recipient of assistance under the program the information described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 1 of the Act, entitled
An Act to require State agencies to inform recipients of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits, participants in the WIC program, and recipients of assistance under the TANF program of card skimming, card cloning, and similar fraudulent methods of stealing such benefits or assistance; and for other purposes.
.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Issuance of cybersecurity and digital service rules
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue cybersecurity and digital service rules applicable to State agencies that administer the supplemental nutrition assistance program under of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (
7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.
) relating to EBT cards and mobile payments under such program to ensure that these measures keep pace with security safeguards used by the private sector and required by Federal agencies for credit, debit, and other payment cards and mobile payments. Such regulations shall include, at a minimum, a time line of not more than 5 years under which States are required to transition to chip-enabled EBT cards and away from payment cards with magnetic strips.
