1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Visa Improvement, Streamlined Investment, and Tourism Optimization Reform Act
or the
VISITOR Act
.
2.
Authority to use collected fees to reduce visa wait times
(a)
Amendment to the Passport Act
Section 1(b) of the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (
22 U.S.C. 214(b)
), is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
such costs
and inserting
the costs of providing consular services
;
(2)
by striking paragraph (2); and
(3)
by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
(b)
Authority To use collected fees for the purposes of reducing visa wait times
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the following passport and immigrant visa surcharges collected in any fiscal year are authorized to be made available for the costs of providing general consular services, including the consular protection of United States citizens and their interests overseas:
(A)
Surcharges collected pursuant to the fourth paragraph under the heading
Diplomatic and Consular Programs
in the Department of State and Related Agency Appropriations Act, 2005 (title IV of division B of
Public Law 108–447
;
8 U.S.C. 1714
).
(B)
Fees deposited into the Fraud Prevention and Detection Account and made available for the purposes described in section 286(v)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1356(v)(2)(A)
).
(2)
Authority to transfer unobligated fee balances
(A)
Transfer of existing fee collection
The unobligated balances of each amount available from fees listed in section 7081(h) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of
Public Law 115–31
) are authorized to be transferred to the Consular and Border Security Programs account and between accounts of the Department of State under the heading
Administration of Foreign Affairs
for the purposes described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(B)
Transfer of other amounts made available for administration of foreign affairs
The unobligated balances of any amounts made available to the Department of State under the heading
Administration of Foreign Affairs
by any Act are authorized to be transferred to the Consular and Border Security Programs Account if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that to do so is necessary to sustain consular operations, following consultation with such Committees.
(3)
Conforming amendment
Section 6 of the Department of State Authorities Act of 2006 (
8 U.S.C. 1714
note) is amended by inserting
and the provision of other general consular services
after
in support of enhanced border security
each place it appears.
(c)
Goal of reduced visa wait time
The Secretary of State is authorized to take such steps as may be necessary for the goal of ensuring that 80 percent of nonimmigrant visa applicants are interviewed within 3 weeks of receipt and application, recognizing that resource and security considerations and the need to ensure provision of consular services to United States citizens may dictate specific exceptions to this goal.
