1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
United States-Moldova Defense Partnership Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
Moldova is a close partner in the European region and the United States should remain committed to supporting its security and prosperity;
(2)
Moldova’s military relies on outdated Soviet era equipment that needs to be replaced;
(3)
senior Moldovan defense officials have stated they need $275 million to modernize Moldova’s Armed Forces;
(4)
the United States should increase and deepen efforts to partner with and support the modernization of the Moldovan military;
(5)
it is in the interest of the United States that Moldova continues to transition its military equipment away from Russian-produced platforms and weapons systems through the European Recapitalization Incentive Program;
(6)
the strategic partnership that the United States and Moldova have established over 30 years is mutually beneficial to the national security of both countries;
(7)
the United States needs to support Moldova’s reform process consisting of a transition from conscription to an all-volunteer/professional force, modernizing equipment from Soviet to Western systems, creating a “mobile, modular, flexible and function army,” according to the 2022 statement by Defense Minister Antolie Nosatii, and emphasizing air defense capabilities; and
(8)
the United States should continue to invest in International Military Education and Training programs in Moldova.
3.
Funding for the European Recapitalization Incentive Program
(a)
In general
To the maximum extent feasible, amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the European Recapitalization Incentive Program should be considered for Moldova as appropriate to assist the country in meeting its defense needs and transitioning away from Russian-produced military equipment.
(b)
Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that provides a full accounting of all funds distributed under the European Recapitalization Incentive Program, including—
(1)
a description of how the funds were used in Moldova; and
(2)
an accounting of remaining equipment in Moldova that was provided by the then-Soviet Union or Russian Federation.
(c)
Appropriate congressional committees
For purposes of subsection (b), the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
4.
Sense of Congress on loan program
It is the sense of Congress that, as appropriate, the United States Government should provide direct loans to Moldova for the procurement of defense articles, defense services, and design and construction services pursuant to the authority of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act (
22 U.S.C. 2763
) to support the further development of Moldova’s military forces.
5.
IMET cooperation with Moldova
For each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028, there is authorized $1,000,000 for International Military Education and Training assistance for Moldova, which may be made available for the following purposes:
(1)
Training of future leaders.
(2)
Fostering a better understanding of the United States.
(3)
Establishing a rapport between the United States Armed Forces and Moldova’s military to build partnerships for the future.
(4)
Enhancement of interoperability and capabilities for joint operations.
(5)
Focusing on professional military education, civilian control of the military, and protection of human rights.
