1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Keep STEM Graduates in America Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings and purpose
(a)
Findings
The Congress finds that foreign students pursuing degrees in science and technology fields at colleges and universities in the United States contribute significantly to American innovation and economic growth.
(b)
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to encourage talented foreign students studying science and technology in the United States to remain in the country after graduation by extending the optional practical training period, allocating additional H–1B visa quotas, and enhancing their chances of securing H–1B visas.
3.
Extension of OPT period
(a)
Regulations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall revise section 214.2(f)(10) of title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, to—
(1)
extend the maximum period of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (hereinafter known as
STEM
) optional practical training (hereinafter known as
OPT
) from 29 months to 48 months for an eligible student; and
(2)
extend the period for which an eligible student may apply for OPT from 60 days to 180 days.
(b)
Eligibility
To be eligible for the extended OPT period under subsection (a), an applicant must have earned a degree in a STEM field from a institution of higher education in the United States that is accredited.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Eligible student
The term
eligible student
means any student who has earned one or more degrees in a STEM field.
(2)
Institution of higher education
The term
institution of higher education
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
).
4.
Allocation of additional H–1B visas
Section 214(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(12)
The numerical limitation described in paragraph (1)(A) for a fiscal year shall be increased from 20,000 visas to 30,000 visas for nonimmigrants with a degree in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (commonly known as
STEM
) field from an institution of higher education in the United States.
.
5.
Revision to H–1B lottery system
Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall revise any rules and regulations necessary to prioritize registrants in the H–1B registration selection process that are nonimmigrants with a degree in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (commonly known as
STEM
).
6.
Reporting requirement
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State shall submit a report to Congress assessing the impact of this Act on the retention of nonimmigrants with a degree in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (commonly known as
STEM
) field from an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1001
)).
7.
Effective date
Unless otherwise specified under this Act, this Act, and any amendments made by this Act, shall take effect 90 days after the date of enactment.
