1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Helping Understand Needs To Ensure Resilience at Creech Air Force Base Act
or the
HUNTER Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Creech Air Force Base warrants attention due to the remoteness of the installation and the specialized operational mission requirements conducted there, with limited to no services on base or nearby.
(2)
Members of the Armed Forces who serve at Creech Air Force Base were previously authorized assignment incentive pay under section 307a of title 37, United States Code, to address the remote location.
(3)
Creech Air Force Base is not currently determined to be a
remote and isolated
installation for purposes of morale, welfare, and recreation, as such services are provided through Nellis Air Force Base.
(4)
In GAO–21–276,
Military Installations: DOD Should Consider Various Support Services when Designating Sites as Remote or Isolated
, the Comptroller General of the United States has recommended that the Secretary of Defense address support service access, such as housing, education services, health care and employment opportunities for remote and isolated locations.
3.
Briefing on efforts to meet the needs of members of the Air Force and their families at Creech Air Force Base
Not later than December 31, 2024, the Secretary of the Air Force shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the following:
(1)
A report on the need for and status of reinstatement of assignment incentive pay under section 307a of title 37, United States Code, for members who serve at Creech Air Force Base.
(2)
A review of the need for and impacts of a remote and isolated designation for Creech Air Force Base to provide morale, welfare, and recreation services on base.
(3)
A review of the need for and impacts of designating Creech Air Force Base as a remote and isolated installation with regards to consideration for additional support services, such as housing, education services, health care and employment opportunities, as recommended in GAO–21–276.
