1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Investigative Integrity Protection Act of 2024
.
2.
Presidential oversight of Attorney General
(a)
In general
Chapter 31
of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
530E.
Presidential oversight of Attorney General
(a)
Certification
In the case of any criminal prosecution against the President, irrespective of when the prosecution was initiated, if the government seeks dismissal of such prosecution, the court shall require the Attorney General to submit a sworn statement under penalty of perjury attesting as to whether the dismissal was ordered by the President or anyone acting pursuant to the direction of the President.
(b)
Considerations
(1)
In general
The court shall only grant the dismissal if deemed appropriate and in the interest of justice after having duly considered the circumstances of the case and—
(A)
the sworn statement required by subsection (a);
(B)
any evidence in the record or ex curia, which shall be reflected in the order of the court, to support an inference that the decision to seek dismissal of the prosecution is motivated by bad faith or is a pretext to enable the President to act outside of the legal and constitutional authority of the Presidency; and
(C)
any other factors the court deems appropriate.
(2)
Evidentiary considerations
Evidence considered under subsection (b)(1)(B) may include—
(A)
whether the dismissal was suggested, encouraged, requested, or ordered by the President; or
(B)
whether the Attorney General was, in the opinion of the court, appointed in whole or in part for his willingness to dismiss the prosecution at bar or any criminal prosecution against the President.
(c)
Three-Judge court
Any action seeking dismissal shall be heard by a three-judge court convened pursuant to section 2284.
(d)
Sanctions
If the court, in making a determination under subsection (b), additionally determines that the motion to dismiss was made without good cause, the court may impose sanctions as appropriate.
(e)
Inspector General responsibilities
The Inspector General of the Department of Justice, upon having a good faith basis to conclude that a motion to dismiss a prosecution against the President was brought at the direction of the President, or anyone acting pursuant to the direction of the President, shall immediately report such findings to Congress.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following:
530E. Presidential oversight of Attorney General.
.
