1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Menopause Care for Veterans Act of 2024
.
2.
Comptroller General study and report on menopause care furnished by Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Study
The Comptroller General of the United States shall carry out a study on the medical services furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under sections 1703 and 1710 of title 38, United States Code, for veterans experiencing perimenopause, genitourinary syndrome of menopause, and menopause stages.
(b)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall make publicly available a report on the study carried out under subsection (a).
(2)
Elements
The report required under paragraph (1) shall include each of the following:
(A)
A description of the menopause care furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(B)
A review of the established guidelines and protocols of the Department of for—
(i)
the training of medical providers of the Department;
(ii)
the diagnosis and treatment of perimenopause, genitourinary syndrome of menopause, and menopause in women veterans; and
(iii)
the referral of veterans seeking menopause care to non-Department medical providers.
(C)
An evaluation of the adequacy of the access of veterans to interdisciplinary care to treat the effects of perimenopause, genitourinary syndrome of menopause, and menopause.
(D)
A review of the educational initiatives and outreach of the Department to ensure that veterans are aware of the perimenopause, genitourinary syndrome of menopause, and menopause care available under sections 1703 and 1710 of title 38, United States Code, including treatment options and potential benefits and risks.
(E)
An evaluation of the quality of menopause care provided under sections 1703 and 1710 of title 38, United States Code, including—
(i)
a review of feedback about menopause care collected from veterans;
(ii)
an examination of the efficacy of the menopause care furnished by the Department; and
(iii)
an evaluation of the extent to which the Department has established mechanisms for veterans to address and resolve any concerns or issues regarding menopause care.
(F)
A review of how, if at all, the Secretary is leveraging research, conducted within the Department or by other entities, to improve menopause care for veterans, including through the development of new treatments or protocols.
(G)
Recommendations for the improvement of the menopause care furnished by the Department.
(c)
Plan To implement recommendations
Not later than 6 months after the date on which the Comptroller General makes the report required under subsection (b) publicly available, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a strategic plan to—
(1)
implement the recommendations contained in the report;
(2)
improve the quality of menopause care furnished under sections 1703 and 1710 of title 38, United States Code; and
(3)
improve the access of veterans to menopause care.
