1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disarming Cartels Act
.
2.
Enhancing border security by disrupting the smuggling of United States-sourced firearms and related munitions across the land border with Mexico
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall enhance border security efforts to disrupt the smuggling of United States-sourced firearms and related munitions across the land border with Mexico by taking the following actions:
(1)
Increasing collaboration, including joint operations, between U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and other appropriate Federal partners to identify, target, disrupt, and dismantle transnational criminal organizations responsible for exporting firearms and related munitions from the United States to Mexico.
(2)
Directing Homeland Security Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to establish a mechanism for sharing aggregated information about the interdiction of firearms by law enforcement agents and officers of the Department in the United States and the interdiction of United States-sourced firearms in Mexico with Federal partners.
(3)
Expanding efforts within Homeland Security Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to collect information concerning firearms recovered at crime scenes in Mexico and analyze such information for leads regarding United States sources in order to disrupt cross-border firearms smuggling.
(4)
Enhancing Department of Homeland Security coordination with appropriate Mexican Government agencies to increase outbound inspections by U.S. Customs and Border Protection on the land border with Mexico.
(5)
Establishing performance measures, in consultation with appropriate Federal partners, for efforts to disrupt the smuggling of United States-sourced firearms across the land border with Mexico.
(b)
Reporting
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the implementation of subsection (a). Each such report shall include information relating to the following:
(1)
Ongoing, planned, and completed activities related to such implementation.
(2)
Descriptions of joint operations conducted by Department of Homeland Security agencies with Federal partners in accordance with paragraph (1) of such subsection.
(3)
Performance measures utilized in accordance with paragraph (5) of such subsection.
