1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Standardized Calculation of Operational Polluting Emissions Act
or the
SCOPE Act
.
2.
Study and guidance on scope 3 emissions
(a)
In general
Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall conduct a study, and publish guidance, on calculating and reporting, for direct emitters, scope 3 emissions above thresholds the Administrator determines appropriate.
(b)
Inclusions
The guidance published under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
thresholds of scope 3 emissions above which reporting to the Environmental Protection Agency is recommended;
(2)
calculation methodologies for scope 3 emissions based on source categories;
(3)
recommendations on frequency of monitoring scope 3 emissions;
(4)
quality assurance and control guidance for scope 3 emissions data;
(5)
methodologies for estimating missing scope 3 emissions data; and
(6)
guidance for record keeping for scope 3 emissions data and reporting of such data.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Direct emitter
The term
direct emitter
means—
(A)
a facility—
(i)
that is in one of the source categories defined in subpart C through subpart JJ of part 98 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations); and
(ii)
with respect to which the greenhouse gas reporting requirements and related monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of such part 98, apply; or
(B)
any other facility the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines appropriate.
(2)
Greenhouse gas
The term
greenhouse gas
means the air pollutants (as defined in section 302(g) of the Clean Air Act (
42 U.S.C. 7602(g)
) carbon dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxide, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride.
(3)
Scope 3 emissions
The term
scope 3 emissions
means indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from upstream and downstream value chain activities, as determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(d)
Congressional Intent
Nothing in this section may be construed to affect the authority of the President, any Federal agency, or any State under existing law.
