1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pathways to Policing Act
.
2.
Grant program
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
PP
Law Enforcement Hiring Support Grant
3061.
Grant authorization
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this part, the COPS Director is authorized to make grants, on a competitive basis, to States, units of local government, and law enforcement agencies for the purposes described in subsection (c).
(b)
Applications
To be eligible to receive a grant under this part, a State, unit of local government, or law enforcement agency shall submit an application to the COPS Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the COPS Director may require.
(c)
Use of funds
A recipient of a grant under this part may use the grant funds for the following:
(1)
Marketing and Recruitment campaigns
Not more than 50 percent of the grant funds awarded to a recipient under this part may be used to develop, implement, or expand marketing and recruitment campaigns for the purpose of encouraging candidates to seek careers in law enforcement.
(2)
Pathways to policing
Not more than 50 percent of the grant funds awarded to a recipient under this part may be used to develop, operate, or expand Pathways to Policing programs.
(d)
Report
For each fiscal year in which a grant is awarded under this part, each recipient of such grant shall submit to the COPS Director a report containing a summary of each activity carried out using such grant and such other information as the COPS Director may require.
3062.
Priority
(a)
Underrepresented and nontraditional groups
In awarding a grant under this part, priority shall be given to applicants that seek to recruit candidates who are members of communities traditionally underrepresented in the field of law enforcement or who have nontraditional educational or career backgrounds.
(b)
Community policing
In awarding a grant under this part, priority shall be given to applicants that seek to recruit candidates who reside in or who are willing to relocate to the communities that the candidates will serve, or that are in close proximity to the communities that the candidates will serve.
3063.
Definitions
In this part:
(1)
COPS Director
The term
COPS Director
means the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services.
(2)
Pathways to Policing programs
The term
Pathways to Policing programs
refers to any program that—
(A)
facilitates the entry into full-time law enforcement positions for candidates that—
(i)
face barriers in obtaining the education and training necessary to pursue a law enforcement career; and
(ii)
have no prior law enforcement experience;
(B)
provides candidates with financial support, including tuition, compensation, or benefits, while attending a law enforcement officer education and training program, and
(C)
may include service in part-time, uniformed positions that further a candidate’s training to be a full-time law enforcement officer.
3064.
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 to carry out sections 3061, 3062, and 3063 for each of fiscal years 2025 to 2029.
3065.
Nationwide law enforcement marketing and recruitment campaign
(a)
Marketing and recruitment campaigns
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Attorney General shall develop and implement nationwide marketing and recruitment campaigns for the purpose of encouraging candidates, including candidates who are members of communities traditionally underrepresented in the field of law enforcement or who have nontraditional educational or career backgrounds, to seek careers in law enforcement.
(b)
Consultation
In developing and implementing the marketing and recruitment campaigns under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall consult with State attorneys general, State and local law enforcement entities, professional law enforcement associations, community-based organizations, and academic researchers.
(c)
States, units of local government, and law enforcement agencies
In developing and implementing the marketing and recruitment campaigns under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall create educational materials and related resources for States, units of local government, and law enforcement agencies to operate a marketing and recruitment campaign under section 3061.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 to 2029.
.
