1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
NATO Support Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds that:
(1)
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (referred to as
NATO
), which came into being through the North Atlantic Treaty, which entered into force on April 4, 1949, between the United States and the other founding members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, has served as a pillar of international peace and stability, a critical component of United States security, and a deterrent against adversaries and external threats.
(2)
The House of Representatives affirmed in H. Res. 397, on June 27, 2017, that—
(A)
NATO is one of the most successful military alliances in history, deterring the outbreak of another world war, protecting the territorial integrity of its members, and concluding the Cold War peacefully;
(B)
NATO remains the foundation of United States foreign policy to promote a Europe that is prosperous, free, and at peace;
(C)
the United States is solemnly committed to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s principle of collective defense as enumerated in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty; and
(D)
the House of Representatives—
(i)
condemns any threat to the sovereignty, territorial integrity, freedom, and democracy of any NATO ally;
(ii)
supports the decision at the NATO Wales Summit in 2014 that each alliance member aim to spend at least 2 percent of its nation’s gross domestic product on defense by 2024;
(iii)
strongly supports collaboration with NATO allies to enforce Ukraine’s territorial integrity against unprovoked aggression from the Russian Federation;
(iv)
recognizes the advantages that multinational training exercises and joint research and education programs with NATO allies have offered for interoperability and readiness; and
(v)
welcomes the addition of Finland as the 31st member of the NATO Alliance and supports the swift accession of Sweden as an additional member.
3.
Sense of congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the President shall not withdraw the United States from NATO; and
(2)
the case Goldwater v. Carter is not controlling legal precedent with respect to the withdrawal of the United States from a treaty.
4.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States—
(1)
to remain a member in good standing of NATO;
(2)
to reject any efforts to withdraw the United States from NATO, or to indirectly withdraw from NATO by condemning or reducing contributions to NATO structures, activities, or operations, in a manner that creates a de facto withdrawal;
(3)
to continue to work with NATO members to meet their 2014 Wales Defense Investment Pledge commitments; and
(4)
to support robust United States funding for the European Deterrence Initiative, which increases the ability of the United States and its allies to deter and defend against Russian aggression.
5.
Prohibition on the use of funds to withdraw from nato
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds are authorized to be appropriated, obligated, or expended to take any action to withdraw the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, done at Washington, DC, on April 4, 1949, between the United States and the other founding members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
