1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Save Our Airports Reporting Act
.
2.
Progress reports on the national transition plan related to a fluorine-free firefighting foam
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, and every 180 days thereafter until the progress report termination date described in subsection (c), the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a progress report on the development and implementation of a national transition plan related to a fluorine-free firefighting foam that meets the performance standards referenced in chapter 6 of AC No: 150/5210–6D and is acceptable under section 139.319(l) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, for use at part 139 airports.
(b)
Required information
Each progress report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An assessment of the progress made by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to providing part 139 airports with—
(A)
guidance from the Environmental Protection Agency on acceptable environmental limits relating to such fluorine-free firefighting foam;
(B)
guidance from the Department of Defense on the transition to a fluorine-free firefighting foam by the Department;
(C)
best practices for the decontamination of existing aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicles, systems, and other equipment used to deploy firefighting foam at part 139 airports; and
(D)
timelines for the release of policy and guidance relating to part 139 airport implementation plans for obtaining approved military specification products and firefighting personnel training.
(2)
An assessment of the progress made by the Administrator with respect to providing airports that are not part 139 airports and local authorities with responsibility for inspection and oversight with guidance described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) as it relates to the use of fluorine-free firefighting foam at such airports.
(3)
Such other information as the Administrator determines appropriate.
(c)
Progress report termination date
For purposes of subsection (a), the progress report termination date described in this subsection is the date on which the Administrator notifies the appropriate committees of Congress that development and implementation of the national transition plan described in subsection (a) is complete.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and Commerce, and Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, Environment and Public Works, and Armed Services of the Senate.
(2)
Part 139 airport
The term
part 139 airport
means an airport certified under part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
