1.
Vehicle summer meal delivery pilot program
Section 13(a) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1761(a)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(14)
Vehicle summer meal delivery pilot program
(A)
Definition of eligible entity
In this paragraph, the term
eligible entity
means a service institution.
(B)
Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a pilot program (referred to in this paragraph as the
pilot program
), to be carried out beginning with the first summer following the date of enactment of this paragraph, to award grants to eligible entities to purchase or retrofit vehicles to facilitate the distribution of noncongregate meals made available pursuant to this section.
(C)
Priority
In awarding grants under the pilot program, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities—
(i)
with high rates of students who are eligible for free or reduced price lunches under this Act; and
(ii)
that serve a high proportion of students from socially disadvantaged backgrounds.
(D)
Geographic diversity
In awarding grants under the pilot program, the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that eligible entities receiving grants are located in diverse geographic areas.
(E)
Grants
(i)
Term
The term of a grant awarded under the pilot program shall be 1 year.
(ii)
Maximum amount
The amount of a grant awarded under the pilot program shall not exceed $100,000.
(iii)
Administrative expenses
An eligible entity awarded a grant under the pilot program shall use not more than 10 percent of grant funds for administrative expenses.
(iv)
Report requirement
Not later than 1 year after receiving a grant under the pilot program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary a report describing the use of the grant funds, including—
(I)
the number of entities that benefitted from the grant; and
(II)
the number of children served as a result of the grant.
(F)
Technical assistance; best practices
The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to, and share best practices with, eligible entities that receive grants under the pilot program.
(G)
Report
Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the administration of the pilot program, including a summary of the reports received pursuant to subparagraph (D)(iii).
(H)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the pilot program $1,000,000 for each year of the 3-year period beginning on the date of establishment of the pilot program.
.
