1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Skills Against Violence Act of 2024
.
2.
Workforce program
Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 is amended by adding at the end the following:
41001.
Gender-Based Violence Survivor Workforce Program
(a)
In general
The Director of the Office on Violence Against Women (in this section, referred to as
Director
), in consultation with the Director of the Women’s Bureau, the Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Administration, and the Secretary of Labor, shall award grants, as appropriate, to States, units of local government, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations, including domestic violence and sexual assault victim service providers and domestic violence and sexual assault coalitions, that have a documented history of effective work concerning domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking to carry out programs to provide assistance to minors, adults, and their dependents.
(b)
Use of funds
Any grant awarded under this section may be used for programs that provide the following:
(1)
Activities to help survivors secure employment, including obtaining employment counseling, occupational training, job retention counseling, and counseling concerning re-entry into the workforce.
(2)
Outreach activities to make survivors aware of services offered under this program.
(3)
Outreach activities to connect survivors with employers that meet their needs and that support a safe workspace for survivors.
(4)
Support services (as defined by section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act), including—
(A)
child care, disability care, elder care, and other forms of care;
(B)
transportation;
(C)
professional clothing and equipment;
(D)
legal services; and
(E)
gender-based violence counseling and other mental health counseling.
(c)
Application
To receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Director may reasonably require.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Report to Director
As a part of the report required to be submitted under section 40002(b)(6) of this title, an eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall annually submit to the Director information relating to the effectiveness of the programs carried out with amounts from the grant, including—
(A)
the number of survivors for whom the eligible entity supported workforce development;
(B)
if applicable, the number of survivors who—
(i)
sought career services from the eligible entity; and
(ii)
the eligible entity could not serve;
(C)
if applicable, the number of survivors who—
(i)
sought occupational skills training;
(ii)
received occupational skills training; and
(iii)
completed occupational skills training;
(D)
if applicable, the number of individuals who—
(i)
sought supportive services under subsection (b)(4);
(ii)
received supportive services under subsection (b)(4);
(E)
a survivor evaluation component that is documented through survey or interview, including the satisfaction of survivors with the career services;
(F)
if applicable, the number of survivors who received career services who—
(i)
enter employment;
(ii)
failed to enter employment; and
(iii)
any other qualitative or quantitative information determined by the Director.
(2)
Report to Congress
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, and biennially thereafter, the Director shall submit to Congress a report that summarizes the reports received by the Director under paragraph (1).
(e)
Survivors defined
The term
survivor
means a survivor of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, gender-based violence, trafficking, sexual harassment, and stalking.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029 to carry out this section.
.
