1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Habitable Housing Conversion Pilot Program Act of 2024
.
2.
Pilot program for insurance of conversion loans
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
) shall carry out pilot program to insure mortgages, under section 203(k) of the National Housing Act (
12 U.S.C. 1709(k)(2)
), made to finance improvements necessary to convert space in the basements of owner-occupied properties, into safe and habitable dwelling units that are to be made available for rental, meet all State and local building and safety standards and codes, and comply with the regulations issued by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.
(b)
Scope
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under this section during the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and may insure not more than 150,000 mortgages under the program.
(c)
Consultation; priority
In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to identify areas more likely to suffer hazards causing need for improvements financed under such program and may give priority in insuring mortgages under such program to eligible properties located in such areas.
(d)
Regulations
The Secretary shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the pilot program under this section, including regulations to ensure the safety and habitability of spaces converted into dwelling units using mortgages insured under the program.
(e)
Report
Upon the expiration of the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress describing and assessing the pilot program under this section, identifying any successes of and problems with the program, identifying any current codes and regulations that prevent or inhibit conversion of basement space into dwelling units, and making recommendations regarding reauthorizing, reforming, or terminating the program.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the pilot program under this section.
