1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Trail Stewardship for Economic Recovery Act of 2020
.
2.
Establishment and use of Trail Stewardship for Economic Recovery Fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund, to be known as the
Trail Stewardship for Economic Recovery Fund
(referred to in this section as the
Fund
).
(b)
Deposit into the Fund
On the date of enactment of this Act, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise obligated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit into the Fund $200,000,000, to remain available until expended and without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, to carry out the purposes described in subsection (c).
(c)
Use of fund
(1)
In general
The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service (referred to in this section as the
Secretary
), shall use amounts in the Fund to enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with an outfitter or guide to complete, on National Forest System land—
(A)
trail maintenance projects; and
(B)
additional invasive plant and noxious weed prevention and control projects.
(2)
Preference
In entering into cooperative agreements or contracts under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
give preference to projects described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) that can be performed in an area that the Secretary has selected as a priority area under section 5 of the National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act (
16 U.S.C. 583k–3
); and
(B)
expedite projects with the goal of initiating the majority of the projects not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(3)
Contracts and agreements
A cooperative agreement or contract that is entered into under paragraph (1)—
(A)
shall not be subject to any requirement relating to the procurement of matching funds under any other provision of law; and
(B)
may contain such terms and conditions as the Secretary requires.
(d)
Submission of list of projects to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for each fiscal year for which amounts made available under subsection (b) are expended, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a list of projects described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(1) that—
(1)
meet the criteria described in this section; and
(2)
have been, or are expected to be, funded from amounts made available under subsection (b).
