1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Repeal Insurance Plans of the Multi-State Program Act
or the
RIP MSP Act
.
2.
Repeal of multi-State plan program
(a)
Definitions
In this section, the terms
multi-State plan issuer
and
MSP issuer
mean a health insurance issuer or group of health insurance issuers that has a contract with the Office of Personnel Management to offer multi-State plan options pursuant to section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
).
(b)
Program Repeal
Effective January 1, 2020, section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
Public Law 111–148
) shall have no force or effect.
(c)
Termination of external review
The administration of external review pursuant to section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act shall conclude upon the issuance by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (referred to in this section as
OPM
) of all final decisions for enrollees enrolled in a multi-State plan during or before the 2019 plan year.
(d)
Required reporting
Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of OPM shall provide the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a briefing concerning the efforts of the OPM to wind down the multi-State program under section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Such briefing shall contain such information as may be required, including information regarding—
(1)
the methods of communication OPM and an MSP issuer will use to notify current enrollees that the multi-State plan will not be offered during the next open season, including a timeline of the planned communications;
(2)
a description of how the Director of OPM will work with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to ensure that no plans previously offered pursuant to such section 1334 are offered on State or Federal Exchanges; and
(3)
a timeline detailing how OPM will close down the information technology portal that MSP issuers utilize.
(e)
Conforming amendments
(1)
In general
Title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is amended—
(A)
in section 1301(a) (
42 U.S.C. 18021(a)
)—
(i)
in paragraph (2)—
(I)
in the heading, by striking
and multi-State qualified health plans
; and
(II)
by striking
and a multi-State plan under section 1334,
; and
(ii)
in paragraph (4), by striking
, including a multi-State qualified health plan,
; and
(B)
in section 1324(a) (
42 U.S.C. 18044(a)
), by striking
, or a multi-State qualified health plan under section 1334,
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on January 1, 2020.
