1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
DHS Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator Act
.
2.
Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator
(a)
In general
Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
321.
Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator
(a)
Coordinator
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall designate a senior official of the Department within the Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans as the Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator (in this section referred to as the
Coordinator
) and provide appropriate staff to carry out the responsibilities of the Coordinator.
(2)
Responsibilities
The Coordinator shall—
(A)
oversee and coordinate with relevant Department offices and components, including the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and the Privacy Office, on the development of guidance and regulations to counter threats associated with unmanned aircraft systems (in this section referred to as
UAS
) as described in section 210G;
(B)
promote research and development of counter UAS technologies in coordination with the Office of Science and Technology;
(C)
coordinate with the relevant components and offices of the Department, including the Office of Intelligence and Analysis, to ensure the sharing of information, guidance, and intelligence relating to countering UAS threats, counter UAS threat assessments, and counter UAS technology, including the retention of UAS and counter UAS incidents within the Department;
(D)
serve as the Department liaison, in coordination with relevant components and offices of the Department, to Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement entities and the private sector regarding the activities of the Department relating to countering UAS;
(E)
maintain the information required under section 210G(g)(3); and
(F)
carry out other related counter UAS authorities and activities under section 210G, as directed by the Secretary.
(b)
Coordination with applicable Federal laws
The Coordinator shall, in addition to other assigned duties, coordinate with relevant Department components and offices to ensure testing, evaluation, or deployment of a system used to identify, assess, or defeat a UAS is carried out in accordance with applicable Federal laws.
(c)
Coordination with private sector
The Coordinator shall, among other assigned duties, working with the Office of Partnership and Engagement and other relevant Department offices and components, or other Federal agencies, as appropriate, serve as the principal Department official responsible for sharing to the private sector information regarding counter UAS technology, particularly information regarding instances in which counter UAS technology may impact lawful private sector services or systems.
(d)
Termination of authority
The authority to carry out this section shall terminate on the date described in section 210G(i).
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
Public Law 107–296
; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 320 the following:
Sec. 321. Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator.
.
