1.
State loan eligibility
(a)
Definitions
Section 1701 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16511
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6)
State
The term
State
has the meaning given the term in section 202 of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (
42 U.S.C. 6802
).
(7)
State energy financing institution
(A)
In general
The term
State energy financing institution
means a quasi-independent entity or an entity within a State agency or financing authority established by a State—
(i)
to provide financing support or credit enhancements, including loan guarantees and loan loss reserves, for eligible projects; and
(ii)
to create liquid markets for eligible projects, including warehousing and securitization, or take other steps to reduce financial barriers to the deployment of existing and new eligible projects.
(B)
Inclusion
The term
State energy financing institution
includes an entity or organization established to achieve the purposes described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A) by an Indian Tribal entity or an Alaska Native Corporation.
.
(b)
Terms and conditions
Section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (
42 U.S.C. 16512
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (a), by inserting
or to a State energy financing institution
after
for projects
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(l)
State energy financing institutions
(1)
Eligibility
To be eligible for a guarantee under this title, a State energy financing institution—
(A)
shall meet the requirements of section 1703(a)(1); and
(B)
shall not be required to meet the requirements of section 1703(a)(2).
(2)
Partnerships authorized
In carrying out a project receiving a loan guarantee under this title, State energy financing institutions may enter into partnerships with private entities, Tribal entities, and Alaska Native corporations.
(3)
Prohibition on use of appropriated funds
Amounts appropriated to the Department of Energy before the date of enactment of this subsection shall not be available to be used for the cost of loan guarantees made to State energy financing institutions under this subsection.
.
