1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Primary Regulators of Insurance Vote Act of 2019
.
2.
Establishment of State insurance commissioner as a voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council
(a)
In general
Section 111 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
in paragraph (1)—
(i)
by redesignating subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (K);
(ii)
in subparagraph (I), by striking
and
at the end; and
(iii)
by inserting after subparagraph (I) the following:
(J)
a State insurance commissioner, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as described in paragraph (4); and
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
State insurance commissioner
In selecting an individual to appoint as a State insurance commissioner under paragraph (1)(J), the President shall request a list of recommendations for the individual from State insurance commissioners through a process determined by the State insurance commissioners. The recommendations shall not be binding on the President. If the State insurance commissioners fail to submit a list of recommendations within 15 business days after the date of the request, the President may select an individual to appoint without considering the recommendations.
; and
(2)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1), by inserting
, the State insurance commissioner shall serve for a term of 4 years
after
6 years
;
(B)
in paragraph (2), by inserting at the end the following:
For vacancy in the membership of the State insurance commissioner serving under subsection (b)(1)(J), the President shall appoint another State insurance commissioner to serve on the Council for the remainder of the term or until a successor is appointed and confirmed under paragraph (5), whichever is earlier.
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(5)
Term of State insurance commissioner
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if a successor to the State insurance commissioner serving under subsection (b)(1)(J) is not appointed and confirmed by the end of the term of service of such commissioner, such commissioner may continue to serve until the earlier of—
(A)
18 months after the date on which the term of service ends; or
(B)
the date on which a successor to such member is appointed and confirmed.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
Section 111(c)(4) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321(c)(4)
) is amended by striking
subsection (b)(1)(J)
and inserting
subsection (b)(1)(K)
.
3.
Repeal of State insurance commissioner as nonvoting member of FSOC
(a)
In general
Section 111(b)(2) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321(b)(2)
) is amended by striking subparagraph (C) and redesignating subparagraph (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
Section 111(c)(1) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321(c)(1)
) is amended by striking by
subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E)
and inserting
subparagraphs (C) and (D)
.
4.
Temporary service; transition
Notwithstanding the amendments made by this Act, during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which the State insurance commissioner is appointed and confirmed pursuant to section 111(b)(1) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321(b)(1)
), as amended by section 2 of this Act, section 111(b)(2)(C) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (
12 U.S.C. 5321(b)(2)(C)
), as in effect before the date of enactment of this Act, shall continue to apply.
