1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Harmless Error Lesser Penalty for Small Businesses Act
or the
HELP for Small Businesses Act
.
2.
Paperwork violations by small businesses
(a)
In general
Section 3512 of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Small businesses
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection:
(A)
First-time violation
The term
first-time violation
means a violation by a small business concern of a requirement regarding collection of information by an agency, where the small business concern has not previously violated any similar requirement regarding collection of information by that agency.
(B)
Small business concern
The term
small business concern
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 632
).
(2)
First-time violation
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), in the case of a first-time violation by a small business concern of a requirement regarding the collection of information by an agency, the head of the agency shall not impose a civil fine on the small business concern.
(B)
Determination
For purposes of determining whether to impose a civil fine on a small business concern under subparagraph (A), the head of an agency shall not take into account any violation by the small business concern of a requirement regarding collection of information by another agency.
(C)
Exception
The head of an agency may impose a civil fine on a small business concern for a first-time violation if the head of the agency determines that—
(i)
the violation has the potential to impede or interfere with the detection of criminal activity;
(ii)
the violation is a violation of an internal revenue law or a law concerning the assessment or collection of any tax, debt, revenue, or receipt;
(iii)
the violation was not corrected on or before the date that is 180 days after the date on which the head of the agency provided the small business concern with actual notice of the violation in writing; or
(iv)
except as provided in paragraph (3), the violation—
(I)
presents a danger to the public health or safety; or
(II)
has the potential to cause serious harm to the public interest.
(3)
Danger to public health or safety or potential harm to public interest
(A)
In general
In any case in which the head of an agency determines under paragraph (2)(C)(iv) that a violation presents a danger to the public health or safety or has the potential to cause serious harm to the public interest, the head of the agency may determine not to impose a civil fine on the small business concern if the violation is corrected not later than 24 hours after the head of the agency provides the owner of the small business concern with actual notice of the violation in writing.
(B)
Considerations
In determining whether to impose a civil fine under subparagraph (A), the head of an agency shall take into account the nature and seriousness of the violation, including—
(i)
whether the violation is technical or inadvertent or involves willful or criminal conduct; and
(ii)
whether the small business concern had made a good faith effort to comply with applicable laws and to remedy the violation within the 24-hour time period described in that subparagraph.
.
(b)
Technical and conforming amendment
Section 3512(b) of title 44, United States Code, is amended by striking
this section
and inserting
subsection (a)
.
