1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Remove Impediments for a Successful Economic Recovery Act
or the
RISER Act
.
2.
Extended availability for Coronavirus Relief Fund payments used in accordance with a qualifying economic development plan
Section 601(d) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 801(d)
) is amended to read as follows:
(d)
Use of funds; availability
(1)
In general
A State, Tribal government, and unit of local government shall use the funds provided under a payment made under this section to cover only those costs of the State, Tribal government, or unit of local government that—
(A)
are necessary expenditures incurred due to the public health emergency with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19);
(B)
were not accounted for in the budget most recently approved as of the date of enactment of this section for the State or government; and
(C)
subject to paragraph (2), were incurred during the period that begins on March 1, 2020, and ends on December 30, 2020.
(2)
Extended availability for funds used in accordance with a qualifying economic development plan
(A)
In general
Notwithstanding subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1), funds provided under a payment made under this section shall remain available to a State, Tribal government, or unit of local government until December 31, 2022, for obligation by the State or government—
(i)
for costs of the State or government that—
(I)
are necessary expenditures incurred due to the public health emergency with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19); and
(II)
were not accounted for in the budget most recently approved as of the date of enactment of this section for the State or government; and
(ii)
in accordance with a qualifying economic development plan.
(B)
Availability
Any funds obligated under subparagraph (A) as of the date specified in such subparagraph shall remain available until expended.
(C)
Certification requirement
In order to use funds provided under a payment under this section in accordance with this paragraph, a State, Tribal government, or unit of local government shall provide the Secretary with a certification signed by the Chief Executive of the State or government that the proposed uses of the funds under the qualifying economic development plan are consistent with the requirements of subparagraph (A)(i).
(D)
Qualifying economic development plan
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
qualifying economic development plan
means, with respect to a State or government, a plan for using funds paid or distributed to the State or government under this section to respond to the COVID–19 public health emergency, including by expanding access in a technology neutral manner to broadband and telemedicine services to unserved locations or consumers, that is approved by the State or the governing board of a university before December 30, 2020.
.
