1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Real Marketing Edible Artificials Truthfully Act of 2019
or the
Real MEAT Act of 2019
.
2.
Labeling of imitation meat products
The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is amended by inserting after section 403C of such Act (
21 U.S.C. 343–3
) the following:
403D.
Labeling of imitation meat products
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding section 101.3(e) of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations), without respect to the relative nutritional value of the food, any imitation meat food product, imitation beef, or imitation beef product shall be deemed to be misbranded unless its label bears, in type of uniform size and prominence, the word
imitation
immediately before or after the name of the food and a statement that clearly indicates the product is not derived from, or does not contain, meat.
(b)
Coordination with Secretary of Agriculture
(1)
Notification of misbranding
If the Secretary determines that food is misbranded under subsection (a), the Secretary shall, within 60 days of such determination, transmit a notice of such determination to the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2)
Enforcement failure
If the Secretary fails, within 30 days of transmitting a notice under paragraph (1), to initiate an enforcement action with respect to the food that is the subject of such notice, the Secretary of Agriculture may treat each such determination of misbranding under subsection (a) with respect to the food as a determination of misbranding under section 1(n) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
(c)
Rule of construction
This section shall not be construed as limiting the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to take enforcement or other action under the Federal Meat Inspection Act or other applicable law with respect to a food subject to subsection (a).
(d)
Definition
In this section:
(1)
The term
beef
or
beef product
means any food containing edible meat tissue from domesticated Bos indicus or Bos taurus cattle.
(2)
The term
imitation beef
means any food manufactured to appear as beef or any food that approximates the aesthetic qualities (primarily texture, flavor, and appearance) or the chemical characteristics of specific types of beef but does not contain any meat, meat food product, or meat byproduct ingredients.
(3)
The term
imitation beef product
means any food manufactured to appear as a beef product or any food that approximates the aesthetic qualities (primarily texture, flavor, and appearance) or the chemical characteristics of specific types of beef products but does not contain any meat, meat food product, or meat byproduct ingredients.
(4)
The term
imitation meat food product
means any food manufactured to appear as a meat food product or any food that approximates the aesthetic qualities (primarily texture, flavor, and appearance) or chemical characteristics of specific types of meat but does not contain any meat, meat food product, or meat byproduct ingredients.
(5)
The term
meat
is within the meaning of the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
(6)
The term
meat byproduct
is within the meaning of the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
(7)
The term
meat food product
has the meaning given the term in section 1 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
.
