1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Post­trau­matic Growth Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
There is a shortage of adequate, timely, and effective mental health care available to veterans across the United States.
(2)
The Department of Veterans Affairs continues to highlight veterans mental health care and suicide prevention as a key priority.
(3)
There is an opportunity to explore effective alternative treatments focused on the area of post­trau­mat­ic growth.
3.
Pilot program on posttraumatic growth
(a)
Program
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a pilot program to study the effectiveness and benefits of nonprofit posttraumatic growth programs to determine—
(1)
the outcomes of such programs in contrast to traditional models of mental health care;
(2)
the possible integration of such nonprofit programs into the mental health care programs provided by the Secretary; and
(3)
the budgetary impacts of such integration.
(b)
Review and evaluation
In developing the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1)
review relevant literature to summarize the existing knowledge regarding posttraumatic growth programs; and
(2)
evaluate such programs.
(c)
Duration
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) for a two-year period beginning on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Locations
The Secretary shall select more than one location at which to carry out the pilot program under subsection (a), of which at least one location shall include a rural area.
(e)
Participants
(1)
Eligibility
A veteran is eligible to participate in the pilot program under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that the veteran is—
(A)
not at known immediate risk of attempting suicide; and
(B)
not participating in traditional mental health treatment.
(2)
Female veterans
Not fewer than four groups of veterans participating in the pilot program under subsection (a) shall consist only of female veterans.
(f)
Nonprofit organizations
The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) by entering into an agreement with one or more nonprofit organizations that—
(1)
have staff with expertise in evidence-based care and experience working with veterans;
(2)
have experience in the science of post­trau­mat­ic growth; and
(3)
use a standardized, evaluated, and com­pre­hen­sive curriculum.
(g)
Report
Not later than one year after the date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program, including a comparison of the care provided under the pilot program and the clinical care model of the Department.
