1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Human Trafficking Research Act of 2020
.
2.
Comprehensive research and statistical review and analysis of incidents of trafficking in persons and commercial sex acts
Section 201(a)(1)(B) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (
34 U.S.C. 20701(a)(1)(B)
) is amended to read as follows:
(B)
Contents
The research and statistical review and analysis under this paragraph shall consist of two separate studies, utilizing the same statistical data where appropriate, as follows:
(i)
The first study shall address severe forms of trafficking in persons in the United States and shall include, but need not be limited to—
(I)
the estimated number and demographic characteristics of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(II)
the estimated number and demographic characteristics of perpetrators of severe forms of trafficking; and
(III)
the number of investigations, arrests, prosecutions, and incarcerations of persons engaged in acts of severe forms of trafficking in persons by States and their political subdivisions.
(ii)
The second study shall address sex trafficking and unlawful commercial sex acts in the United States and shall include, but need not be limited to—
(I)
the estimated number and demographic characteristics of perpetrators of sex trafficking, including purchasers of commercial sex acts;
(II)
the estimated value in dollars of the commercial sex economy, including the estimated average annual personal income derived from acts of sex trafficking;
(III)
the number of investigations, arrests, prosecutions, and incarcerations of persons engaged in sex trafficking and unlawful commercial sex acts, including purchasers of commercial sex acts, by States and their political subdivisions; and
(IV)
a description of the differences in the enforcement of laws relating to unlawful commercial sex acts across the United States.
.
3.
Reauthorization
Section 201(c)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (
34 U.S.C. 20701(c)(1)
) is amended by striking
2008 through 2011
each place it appears and inserting
2021 through 2024
.
