1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Freedom of Commerce Act
.
2.
Repeal of certain laws related to switchblade knives
(a)
In general
The Act entitled
An Act to prohibit the introduction, or manufacture for introduction, into interstate commerce of switchblade knives, and for other purposes
, approved August 12, 1958 (commonly known as the
Federal Switchblade Act
;
15 U.S.C. 1241
et seq.), is amended by striking sections 1 through 4.
(b)
Conforming amendments
Chapter 83
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in section 1716—
(A)
by striking subsection (g);
(B)
by redesignating subsections (h) through (k) as subsections (g) through (j), respectively; and
(C)
by striking subsection (h), as so redesignated, and inserting the following:
(h)
(1)
All ballistic knives are nonmailable and shall not be deposited in or carried by the mails or delivered by any officer or employee of the Postal Service. Such knives may be conveyed in the mails, under such regulations as the Postal Service shall prescribe—
(A)
to civilian or Armed Forces supply or procurement officers and employees of the Federal Government ordering, procuring, or purchasing such knives in connection with the activities of the Federal Government;
(B)
to supply or procurement officers of the National Guard, the Air National Guard, or militia of a State ordering, procuring, or purchasing such knives in connection with the activities of such organizations;
(C)
to supply or procurement officers or employees of any State, or any political subdivision of a State or Territory, ordering, procuring, or purchasing such knives in connection with the activities of such government; and
(D)
to manufacturers of such knives or bona fide dealers therein in connection with any shipment made pursuant to an order from any person designated in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C).
(2)
As used in this subsection, the term
ballistic knife
means a knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a spring-operated mechanism.
; and
(2)
in section 1716E(i), by striking
section 1716(k)
and inserting
section 1716(j)
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section—
(1)
shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act; and
(2)
shall not apply with respect to any indictment, conviction, sentencing, appeal, civil or criminal fine or penalty obtained, forfeiture obtained, term of imprisonment, or any other enforcement action or proceeding occurring or commenced before the date of enactment of this Act.
