1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protect our Children from COVIDГўВҖВ“19 Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The pandemic caused by the virus SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 has required a whole-of-society response through mitigation efforts such as stay-at-home orders and the physical closing of schools.
(2)
Physical school closures can have substantial negative effects on childrenГўВҖВҷs education, mental health, and social and emotional development.
(3)
In general, physical school closures compound inequities for many students, including students in rural and low-income communities, where students often lack access to computers and high-speed internet, as well as exacerbate achievement gaps for students from low-income families, students with disabilities, English learners, students of color, and students experiencing homelessness.
(4)
To date, scientific evidence suggests children have a lower probability of developing a serious illness from COVIDГўВҖВ“19, the illness caused by SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2, than adults. It remains unclear, however, what role children play in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 to other children or adults.
(5)
Pursuing research that analyzes and increases understanding of the transmissibility of SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 in children will help families, educators, and elected leaders make evidence-based decisions on safely physically re-opening schools and our economy.
3.
Study on childrenГўВҖВҷs contracting and transmitting of SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2
(a)
Study
(1)
In general
Not later than the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Secretary
), acting through the Director of the National Institutes of Health and in coordination with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and experts from outside of the Department of Health and Human Services, such as the Department of Education, health, occupational safety, and education professional associations, and academia, as appropriate, shall conduct or support research on childrenГўВҖВҷs role in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2.
(2)
Issues to be studied
The research under paragraph (1)ГўВҖВ”
(A)
shall include research onГўВҖВ”
(i)
the transmissibility of SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2 from child to child, child to adult, and adult to child;
(ii)
the vulnerability of children to severe illness with COVIDГўВҖВ“19, including children with underlying health conditions, detailing any differences by age or grade level; and
(iii)
the vulnerability of children to COVIDГўВҖВ“19 while being transported to and from school, while playing sports (including contact sports), and while engaging in other extramural activities, detailing any differences by age or grade level; and
(B)
may include research onГўВҖВ”
(i)
the vulnerability of adults to COVIDГўВҖВ“19, including adults with underlying health conditions, extended family members living with children, (such as grandparents), and vulnerabilities associated with certain activities, includingГўВҖВ”
(I)
adults sending children from the household back to school; and
(II)
adults interacting with children who may be asymptomatic but infected with COVIDГўВҖВ“19, including working in schools; and
(ii)
the types of personal protective equipment that should be provided to students, educators, classified school employees, and other school staff employed in school buildings.
(3)
Considerations
In conducting or supporting the research under paragraph (1), the Secretary shallГўВҖВ”
(A)
take into consideration the best available science, including as provided by the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Medicine, and other evidence-based or peer-reviewed sources; and
(B)
ensure that such research includes consideration of children and adults who are members of racial and ethnic minority groups, as well as children and adults who are immunocompromised or who may be at a greater risk from COVIDГўВҖВ“19, children and adults with disabilities, children and families experiencing homelessness, and children who are eligible for a free or reduced price lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (
42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.).
(b)
Reporting
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter through the end of the public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 247d
) on January 31, 2020, with respect to COVIDГўВҖВ“19, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on childrenГўВҖВҷs role in transmitting SARSГўВҖВ“CoVГўВҖВ“2. Each report shall include an overview of the research conducted or supported under subsection (a) and any relevant findings, and the best practices disseminated to stakeholders under subsection (c).
(c)
Dissemination of best practices
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter through the end of the public health emergency described in subsection (b), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall disseminate to stakeholders best practices for protecting children and adults in educational settings, including the types of personal protective equipment that should be provided to students, educators, classified school employees, and other school staff employed in school buildings. The first set of best practices disseminated pursuant to the preceding sentence shall include any best practices for protecting children and adults in educational settings identified through the research conducted or supported under subsection (a), and subsequent quarterly updates shall continue to reflect the best available science.
