1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Natural Gas Export Certainty Act of 2014
.
2.
Regulatory certainty
Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (
15 U.S.C. 717b
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(g)
Deadline for certain applications for exportation of natural gas
(1)
LNG terminals
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), the Commission shall make a public interest determination and issue an
order under subsection (a) for an application for the exportation of
natural gas to a foreign country through a particular LNG terminal not
later than 45 days after receipt of an application under subsection (e)
for—
(i)
the conversion of that LNG terminal into an LNG import or export facility; or
(ii)
the construction of that LNG terminal.
(B)
Limitation
Subparagraph (A) shall only apply to applications for the exportation of natural gas to a foreign
country under subsection (a) that have been pending for a period of not
less than 180 calendar days.
(2)
Application
This subsection shall not apply with respect to an application under subsection (a) for the
exportation of natural gas—
(A)
to a foreign country—
(i)
to which the exportation of natural gas is otherwise prohibited by law; or
(ii)
described in subsection (c); or
(B)
if the Commission has made a contingent determination with respect to the application.
(3)
Effect
Except as specifically provided in this subsection, nothing in this subsection affects the
authority of
the Commission to review, process, and make a determination with respect
to an application for the exportation of natural gas.
(h)
Judicial Action
(1)
In general
The United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which an export facility will be located
pursuant to an application described in subsection (a) shall have original
and exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of—
(A)
an order issued by the Secretary of Energy with respect to the application; or
(B)
the failure of the Secretary to issue a decision on the application.
(2)
Order
If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds that the Secretary has failed to
issue a decision on the application as required under subsection (a), the
Court shall order the Secretary to issue the decision not later than 30
days after the date of the order of the Court.
(3)
Expedited consideration
The Court shall—
(A)
set any civil action brought under this subsection for expedited consideration; and
(B)
set the matter on the docket as soon as practicable after the filing date of the initial pleading.
.
