1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds following:
(1)
Under article I, section 8, of the Constitution, Congress has the power to
establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization
. As the Supreme Court held in Galvan v. Press,
the formulation of . . . policies [pertaining to the entry of aliens and their right to remain
here] is entrusted exclusively to Congress has become about as firmly
imbedded in the legislative and judicial tissues of our body politic as
any aspect of our government
.
(2)
Under article II, section 3, of the Constitution, the President is required to
take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed
.
(3)
Historically, executive branch officials have legitimately exercised their prosecutorial discretion
through their constitutional power over foreign affairs to permit
individuals or narrow groups of noncitizens to remain in the United States
temporarily due to extraordinary circumstances in their country of origin
that pose an imminent threat to the individuals’ life or physical safety.
(4)
Prosecutorial discretion generally ought to be applied on a case-by-case basis and not to whole
categories of persons.
(5)
President Obama has stated at least 22 times in the past that he can’t ignore existing
immigration law or create his own immigration law.
(6)
President Obama’s grant of deferred action to more than 4,000,000 unlawfully present aliens, as
directed in a memorandum issued by Secretary of
Homeland Security Jeh Charles Johnson on November 20, 2014, is without any
constitutional or
statutory basis.
3.
Prohibition on unilateral deferral of deportations by the executive branch
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the executive branch of the Government shall not—
(1)
exempt or defer, by Executive order, regulation, or any other means, categories of aliens
considered under the immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)
)) to be
unlawfully present in the United States from removal under such laws;
(2)
treat aliens described in paragraph (1) as if they were lawfully present or had a lawful
immigration status; or
(3)
treat such aliens other than as unauthorized aliens (as defined in section 274A(h)(3) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3)
)).
(b)
Exceptions
Subsection (a) shall apply except—
(1)
to the extent prohibited by the Constitution;
(2)
upon the request of Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies, for purposes of maintaining
aliens in the United States to be tried for crimes or to be witnesses at
trial; or
(3)
for humanitarian purposes in which the aliens are at imminent risk of serious bodily harm or death.
(c)
Effect of executive action
Any action by the executive branch with the purpose of circumventing the objectives of this section
shall be null and void and without legal effect.
(d)
Effective date
This section shall—
(1)
take effect as if enacted on November 20, 2014; and
(2)
apply to requests
(regardless of whether the request is original or for reopening of a
previously denied request) submitted on or after such date for—
(A)
work authorization; or
(B)
exemption from, or deferral of, removal.
