1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Derivatives End-Users Clarification Act
.
2.
Treatment of affiliate transactions
(a)
In general
(1)
Commodity Exchange Act amendment
Section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Commodity Exchange Act (
7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)
) is amended by striking
clause (i) and inserting the following:
(i)
In general
An affiliate of a person that qualifies for an exception under subparagraph (A) (including
affiliate entities predominantly engaged in providing financing for the
purchase of the merchandise or manufactured goods of the person) may
qualify for the exception only if the affiliate enters into the swap to
hedge or mitigate the commercial risk of the person or other affiliate of
the person that is not a financial entity, on the condition that if the
hedge or
mitigation of that commercial risk is addressed by entering into a swap
with a swap dealer or major swap participant, an appropriate credit
support measure or other mechanism shall be used.
.
(2)
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 amendment
Section 3C(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78c–3(g)(4)
) is amended by
striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
(A)
In general
An affiliate of a person that qualifies for an exception under this subsection (including affiliate
entities predominantly engaged in providing financing for the purchase of
the merchandise or manufactured goods of the person) may qualify for the
exception only if the affiliate enters into the security-based swap to
hedge or mitigate the commercial risk of the person or other affiliate of
the person that is not a financial entity, on the condition that if the
hedge or
mitigation of that commercial risk is addressed by entering into a
security-based swap with a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant, an appropriate credit support measure or
other mechanism shall be used.
.
(b)
Applicability of credit support measure requirement
The requirements of section 2(h)(7)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (
7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)(i)
)
and section 3C(g)(4)(A) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
15 U.S.C. 78c–3(g)(4)(A)
) (as amended
by subsection (a)) shall not apply with
respect to swaps or security-based swaps, as appropriate, entered into
before the date of enactment of this Act.
