1.
Sense of Congress regarding military assistance to Ukraine
Consistent with United States national security interests and current law, it is the sense of
Congress that the President, working with NATO allies, should as
quickly as possible provide the armed forces of Ukraine with appropriate
non-lethal military assistance and military training support requested by
the Government of Ukraine.
2.
Report on military assistance to Ukraine
(a)
Report required
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter,
the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment and submit to the
congressional defense committees a report related to military assistance
to
Ukraine.
(b)
Elements
At a minimum, the report required under subsection (a) should provide a detailed explanation of the
following matters:
(1)
Military equipment, supplies, and defense services, including type, quantity, and prioritization of
such items, requested by the Government of Ukraine.
(2)
Military equipment, supplies, and defense services, including type, quantity, and actual or
estimated delivery date, that the United States Government has provided,
is currently providing, and plans to provide to the Government of Ukraine.
(3)
An assessment of what United States military assistance to the Government of Ukraine, including
type and quantity, would most effectively improve the military readiness
and capabilities of the Ukrainian military.
(4)
An assessment of the need for, appropriateness of, and force protection concerns of any United
States military advisors that may be made available to the armed forces of
Ukraine.
(5)
Military training requested by the Government of Ukraine.
(6)
Military training the United States Government has conducted with Ukraine in the previous six
months.
(7)
Military training the United States Government plans to conduct with the Government of Ukraine in
the next year.
(8)
An assessment of the military assistance, including equipment, supplies, and weaponry, provided by
the Government of the Russian Federation to irregular forces in Ukraine
since February 22, 2014.
(c)
Sunset
The requirements in this section shall terminate on January 31, 2017.
(d)
Congressional defense committees defined
In this section, the term
congressional defense committees
has the meaning given the term in
section 101(a)(16)
of title 10, United States Code.
