1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act of 2014
.
2.
Extension and modification of pilot program on assisted living services for veterans with traumatic
brain injury
(a)
Modification of report requirements
Subsection (e) of section 1705 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008
(
Public Law 110–181
;
38 U.S.C. 1710C
note) is amended to read as follows:
(e)
Reports
(1)
Quarterly reports
(A)
In general
For each calendar quarter occurring during the period beginning January 1, 2015, and ending
September 30, 2017, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report
on the pilot program.
(B)
Elements
Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include each of the following for the quarter
preceding the quarter during which the report is submitted:
(i)
The number of individuals that participated in the pilot program.
(ii)
The number of individuals that successfully completed the pilot program.
(iii)
The degree to which pilot program participants and family members of pilot program participants
were satisfied with the pilot program.
(iv)
The interim findings and conclusions of the Secretary with respect to the success of the pilot
program and recommendations for improvement.
(2)
Final report
(A)
In general
Not later than 60 days after the completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a final report on the
pilot program.
(B)
Elements
The final report required by subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i)
A description of the pilot program.
(ii)
The Secretary’s assessment of the utility of the activities carried out under the pilot program in
enhancing the rehabilitation, quality of life, and community reintegration
of veterans with traumatic brain injury.
(iii)
An evaluation of the pilot program in light of independent living programs carried out by the
Secretary under title 38, United States Code, including—
(I)
whether the pilot program duplicates services provided under such independent living programs;
(II)
the ways in which the pilot program provides different services than the services provided under
such independent living program;
(III)
how the pilot program could be better defined or shaped; and
(IV)
whether the pilot program should be incorporated into such independent living programs.
(iv)
Such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate regarding improving the pilot program.
.
(b)
Definition of community-Based brain injury residential rehabilitative care services
Such section is further amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
assisted living
and inserting
community-based brain injury residential rehabilitative care
;
(2)
in subsection (c), in the subsection heading, by striking
Assisted Living
and inserting
Community-Based Brain Injury Residential Rehabilitative Care
;
(3)
by striking
assisted living
each place it appears, and inserting
community-based brain injury rehabilitative care
; and
(4)
in subsection (f)(1), by striking
and personal care
and inserting
rehabilitation, and personal care
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Prohibition on new appropriations
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendments made
by this Act, and this Act and such amendments shall be carried out using
amounts otherwise available for such purpose.
