1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanding School Choice Act
.
2.
Title I portability
Part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 6311 et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
1128.
Title I funds follow the low-income child State option
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title or any other provision of law and to the extent
permitted under State law, a State
educational agency may allocate grant funds under this part among the
local educational agencies in the State based on the number of eligible
children enrolled in the public schools served by each local educational
agency and the State-accredited private schools within each local
educational agency’s geographic jurisdiction.
(b)
Eligible child
(1)
Definition
In this section, the term
eligible child
means a child aged 5 to 17, inclusive, from a family with an income below the poverty level on the
basis of the most recent satisfactory data published by the Department of
Commerce.
(2)
Criteria of poverty
In determining the families with incomes below the poverty level for the purposes of this section,
a State educational agency shall use the criteria of poverty used by the
Census Bureau in compiling the most recent decennial census, as the
criteria have been updated by increases in the Consumer Price Index for
All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(c)
Student enrollment in public and private schools
(1)
Identification of eligible children
On an annual basis, on a date to be determined by the State educational agency, each local
educational agency that receives grant funding in accordance with
subsection (a) shall inform the State educational agency of the number of
eligible children enrolled in public schools served by the local
educational agency and the State-accredited private schools within the
local educational agency’s geographic jurisdiction.
(2)
Allocation to local educational agencies
Based on the identification of eligible children in paragraph (1), the State educational agency
shall provide to a local educational agency an amount equal to the sum of
the amount available for each eligible child in the State multiplied by
the number of eligible children identified by the local educational agency
under paragraph (1).
(3)
Distribution to schools
Each local educational agency that receives funds under paragraph (2) shall distribute such funds
to the public schools served by the local educational agency and
State-accredited private schools within the local educational agency’s
geographic jurisdiction—
(A)
based on the number of eligible children enrolled in such schools; and
(B)
in a manner that would, in the absence of such Federal funds, supplement the funds made available
from non-Federal resources for the education of pupils participating in
programs under this subpart, and not to supplant such funds.
.
