1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Dignified Burial Act
.
2.
Information concerning scheduled interments of veterans
(a)
In general
Chapter 24
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:
2415.
Information concerning scheduled interments
(a)
Scheduled interment
(1)
At the same time that the Secretary confirms to a covered entity the veteran status of a deceased
veteran in the custody of the covered entity, the Secretary shall request
from the covered entity the specific date of the scheduled interment of
the deceased veteran.
(2)
During each 30-day period following the date of a
request made under paragraph (1) concerning a deceased veteran, the
Secretary shall repeat such request until the date on which
the covered entity confirms to the Secretary that the deceased veteran has
been interred.
(b)
Annual report
(1)
Not later than January 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on
deceased veterans who were interred after the 30-day period following the
date on which the Secretary made a request under subsection (a).
(2)
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A)
During the year prior to the year in which the report is submitted, the number of deceased veterans
who were not interred during the period described in paragraph (1),
including the covered entity
that had custody of each deceased veteran.
(B)
The number of such deceased veterans who, as of the date of the report, are not yet interred,
including the covered entity that has custody of each deceased veteran.
(c)
Covered entity defined
In this section, the term
covered entity
means a local medical examiner, funeral director, county service group, or other similar entity.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 2414 the following new item:
2415. Information concerning scheduled interments.
.
