1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Local Control of Education Act
.
2.
General ESEA prohibition
(a)
In general
Section 9527 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7907
) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
(e)
Prohibition of Federal government mandating common standards, programs of instruction, curricula,
assessments, or academic standards
An officer or employee of the Federal Government shall not directly or indirectly, through grants,
contracts, or other cooperative agreements under this Act (including
waivers under
section 9401)—
(1)
mandate, direct, or control a State, local educational agency, or school's specific instructional
content or any specific academic standard, assessment, curriculum, or
program of
instruction, including through any requirement, direction, condition, or
mandate to
adopt—
(A)
the Common Core State Standards developed under the Common Core
State Standards Initiative, any other academic standards common to a
number of States, or any specific statewide or nationally recognized
content standards; or
(B)
any
assessment, instructional content, or curriculum aligned to, or based on,
specific academic standards, including any of the standards described in
subparagraph (A);
(2)
incentivize a State, local educational agency, or school to adopt any specific instructional
content, academic standard, assessment, curriculum, commonality of
standards or assessments, or program of
instruction described in paragraph (1), which shall include providing
any priority, preference, or special consideration during the application
process based on any specific content, standard, assessment, curriculum,
commonality,
or program; or
(3)
make financial support available in a manner that is conditioned upon a State, local educational
agency, or school's adoption of any specific instructional content,
academic
standard, assessment, curriculum, commonality of standards or assessments,
or program of instruction described in paragraph (1), even if such
requirements are specified in section 14006 or
14007 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law
111–5; 123 Stat. 281) or any other Act.
.
(b)
Conforming amendment
Section 9527(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7907(a)
) is
amended by striking
curriculum, program of instruction, or
.
3.
Prohibition on requiring adoption of common standards with respect to waivers
(a)
Prohibition
Section 9401 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7861
) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
(h)
Prohibition on requiring certain standards for waivers
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall not require that a State, local educational agency, Indian tribe, or school
adopt, as a prerequisite or condition for any waiver under this section,
any specific instructional content, academic standard, assessment,
curriculum, or program of instruction, including—
(A)
the Common Core State Standards developed under the Common Core
State Standards Initiative, any other academic standards common to a
number of States, or any specific statewide or nationally recognized
content standards; or
(B)
any
assessment, instructional content, or curriculum aligned to, or based on,
any specific academic standards, including any of the standards described
in subparagraph (A).
(2)
Effect on previously issued waivers
(A)
In general
Any requirement described in paragraph (1) that was required for a waiver provided to a State,
local educational agency, Indian tribe, or school under this section
before the date of enactment of the
Local Control of Education Act
shall be void and have no force of law.
(B)
Prohibited actions
The Secretary shall not—
(i)
enforce any requirement that is void pursuant to subparagraph (A); and
(ii)
require the State, local educational agency, Indian tribe, or school to reapply for a waiver, or to
agree to any other conditions to replace any requirements that is void
pursuant to subparagraph (A), until the end of the period of time
specified under the waiver.
(C)
No effect on other provisions
Any other provisions or requirements of a waiver provided under this section before the date of
enactment of the
Local Control of Education Act
that are not affected by subparagraph (A) shall remain in effect for the period of time specified
under the waiver.
.
4.
Prohibition in Race to the Top Funding
Title XIV of Division A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (
Public Law 111–5
) is
amended by
inserting after section 14007 the following:
14007A.
Prohibition on requiring or preferring common standards
The prohibitions of section 9527(e) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 shall
apply to each grant awarded under section 14006 or 14007 in the same
manner as
such prohibitions apply to a grant awarded under such Act.
.
