1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
GI Bill Tuition Fairness Act of
2013
.
2.
Approval of courses of
education provided by public institutions of higher education for purposes of
educational assistance programs administered by Secretary of Veterans Affairs
conditional on in-State tuition rate for veterans
(a)
In
general
Section 3679 of title
38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(c)
(1)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subtitle, the Secretary or the Secretary’s designee shall disapprove a course
of education provided by a public institution of higher education unless the
institution charges tuition and fees for a veteran at the same rate as the
institution charges for residents of the State in which the institution is
located, regardless of the veteran’s State of residence.
(2)
The Secretary shall notify the State
approving agency of the Secretary’s disapproval of a course of education under
this
subsection.
.
(b)
Treatment of
enrolled benefits recipients
(1)
In
general
In the case of a veteran or eligible person who is
enrolled before August 1, 2014, in a course of education provided by a public
institution of higher education that was approved under
chapter 36
of title 38,
United States Code, at the time of the initial enrollment of the veteran or
eligible person but that is disapproved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or
the Secretary’s designee by reason of subsection (c) of section 3679 of such
title, as added by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall treat
such institution as an institution that is approved under such chapter for
purposes of the laws administered by the Secretary with respect to the veteran
or eligible person until the veteran or eligible person completes the course of
education in which the veteran or eligible person is enrolled.
(2)
Termination
(A)
Limitation
Except
as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not
treat an institution of higher education as an approved institution under
paragraph (1) after August 1, 2018.
(B)
Waiver
The
Secretary may waive the limitation under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary
determines such a waiver is appropriate.
(c)
Effective
date
Subsection (c) of
section 3679
of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) shall
apply with respect to educational assistance provided after August 1,
2014.
