1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
First Amendment Protection Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act—
(a)
the term
Executive agency
has the meaning given the term in
section 105
of title 5, United States Code; and
(b)
the term
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual or group that is
maintained by an Executive agency, including, but not limited to,
education, financial transactions, medical information, tax information,
address, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or
the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned
to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
3.
Protection of freedom of speech
(a)
Cause of action
Any officer or employee of an Executive agency who in the course of an investigation, audit,
decision to disclose any record, or decision to grant a license, permit,
or recognition of tax exempt status, discriminates against a person or
group on the basis of the person’s or group’s political or religious
viewpoint or affiliation in violation of the First Amendment’s guarantee
of freedom of speech, shall be considered to have violated this Act.
(b)
Remedies
(1)
In general
A person or group aggrieved of a violation of this Act may bring a civil action against the officer
or employee, or former officer or employee, of an Executive agency in an
appropriate district court of the United States for damages or other legal
or equitable relief.
(2)
Considerations
In determining whether to award compensatory damages, other restitution, or punitive damages in a
civil action brought under paragraph (1), the court shall consider the
amount of the benefits the officer or employee of the Executive agency is
entitled to collect relating to service as an officer or employee,
including retirement benefits, and may include the amount of those
benefits, or a percentage of the amount of those benefits, in the amount
of any damages awarded.
(c)
Attorney’s fees and expert fees
In a civil action brought under subsection (b)(1), the court, in its discretion, may allow the
prevailing party, other than the United States, a reasonable attorney’s
fees as part of the costs. In awarding an attorney’s fees under this
section, the court, in its discretion, may include expert fees as part of
the attorney’s fees.
(d)
Effects on employment and benefits
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including title 5, United States Code, or any contract,
on and at any time after the date on which a court enters final judgment
in an action brought under subsection (b)(1) in which the court determines
that the officer or employee violated this Act, the head of the Executive
agency may, without prior notice, terminate the officer or employee
without cause and may terminate any or all of the benefits of the officer
or employee relating to service as an officer or employee, including
retirement benefits, without cause.
(e)
Retroactive
Subsections (a) through (d) shall apply to conduct that occurred before the date of enactment of
this Act.
(f)
No preemption
The rights and remedies created by this Act shall be in addition to, and do not preempt, any other
rights and remedies available at Federal or State law.
(g)
Exclusion for employment disputes
This Act does not create a cause of action for any claim arising out of Federal employment,
including, but not limited to, any cause of action that may be redressed
by the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, or the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
4.
Protection from government delay
Section 7428(a)(1)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
organization described in section 501(c)(3) which is exempt
and inserting
organization described in paragraph (3), (4), (5), or (6) of subsection (c) of section 501, which
is exempt
.
