1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
The Davis-Bacon Act requires that workers on all federally funded or federally assisted
construction projects be paid what is commonly referred to as a prevailing
wage, as calculated by the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of
Labor.
(2)
According to the Congressional Budget Office, if the Davis-Bacon Act were repealed, the Federal
Government could save an estimated $12,700,000,000 in discretionary
outlays from 2015 through 2023.
(3)
These savings could be redirected to the reconstruction of closed and functionally obsolete bridges
along the Interstate Highway System, which would improve highway safety
and interstate commerce.
I
Establishment and funding
101.
Repeal of Davis-Bacon Act of 1931 wage requirements
(a)
In general
Subchapter IV of
chapter 31
of title 40, United States Code (
40 U.S.C. 3141 et seq.
), is repealed.
(b)
Reference
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, any reference in any law to a wage requirement
under subchapter IV of
chapter 31
of title 40, United States Code, shall
be null and void.
102.
Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the
Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund
.
(b)
Transfers to Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund
-
(1)
In general
The Secretary of the Treasury shall regularly transfer amounts equal to the savings achieved
through the repeal of the wage requirements under subsection (a) from the
capital budgets of each affected Federal agency to the Emergency
Interstate Bridge Safety Fund.
(2)
Emergency relief expenditures
Section 125(c)
of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(3)
Emergency interstate bridge safety fund
Amounts deposited into the Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund established under section 102(a)
of the
Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund Act
are authorized to be obligated to carry out, in priority order, the projects on the current list
compiled by the Secretary under section 201(b)(1) of such Act that meet
the eligibility requirements set forth in subsection (a).
.
II
Emergency interstate bridge safety priority list
201.
Emergency interstate bridge priorities
(a)
List
The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with a representative sample of State and local
government transportation officials, shall compile a prioritized list of
emergency interstate bridge projects, which will guide the allocation of
funding to the States from the Emergency Interstate Bridge Safety Fund
established under section 102.
(b)
Criteria
In compiling the list under subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation, in addition to any
other criteria established by the Secretary, shall rank the emergency
interstate bridge projects in descending order, beginning with projects
that—
(1)
are part of the Federal interstate highway system;
(2)
involve a bridge that is closed or deemed functionally obsolete by the Federal Highway
Administration for safety reasons;
(3)
have a significant impact on interstate commerce;
(4)
would affect a significant volume of traffic; and
(5)
have the greatest overall value to the surrounding community.
(c)
Report
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Transportation shall submit a report to Congress that includes—
(1)
a prioritized list of emergency interstate bridge projects to be funded through the Emergency
Interstate Bridge Safety Fund; and
(2)
a description of the criteria used to establish the list referred to in paragraph (1).
(d)
Quarterly updates
Not less frequently than 4 times per year, the Secretary of Transportation shall—
(1)
update the report submitted pursuant to subsection (c);
(2)
send a copy of the report to Congress; and
(3)
make a copy of the report available to the public through the Department of Transportation’s
website.
