1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
All Year School Study Act
.
2.
Year-round school pilot program
(a)
Program authorized
Section 5411 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7243
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
(B)
by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
(9)
Activities to establish or expand programs providing year-round education at public elementary
schools or secondary schools that—
(A)
focus on raising student achievement, using research- and evidence-based practices; and
(B)
may include increasing the salaries of
teachers who agree to work in the year-round education programs by an
amount not to exceed 100 percent.
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Pilot program for year-Round school activities
(1)
In general
From the amounts described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall carry out a multi-year pilot
program that awards 4 grants, to eligible entities described in paragraph
(3), to carry out the activities described in subsection (b)(9).
(2)
Funding limit for the pilot program
(A)
In general
The Secretary shall use, from the amounts provided under section 5401 for fiscal years 2015
through 2018 for this subpart, a total of $4,000,000 to carry out the
pilot program described in paragraph (1), subject to subparagraph (B).
(B)
Reservation
The Secretary shall reserve 5 percent of the total amount of funds made available under
subparagraph (A) to carry out the independent evaluation described in
paragraph (5).
(3)
Eligible entities
Entities described in subsection (a), except for institutions of higher education or private
entities, shall be
eligible for grants under this subsection.
(4)
Award basis
In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A)
give a priority to eligible entities that—
(i)
propose to use grant funds to carry out year-round education activities that emphasize science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics; and
(ii)
target the year-round education activities to be carried out under the grant to—
(I)
areas with large
populations, or high concentrations, of low-income individuals; and
(II)
low-performing schools; and
(B)
ensure an equitable distribution of such grants across diverse geographic areas.
(5)
Independent evaluation
The Secretary shall enter into a contract with an entity to—
(A)
provide an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the pilot program carried out under this
subsection; and
(B)
prepare and submit a report to the Secretary and Congress, by not later than 180 days after the
conclusion of the pilot program under this subsection, that summarizes
the results of the evaluation.
(6)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter or otherwise affect the
rights, remedies, and procedures afforded to school or school district
employees under Federal, State, or local laws (including applicable
regulations, court orders, or requirements that school districts
negotiate, or meet and confer, in good faith) or under the terms of
collective bargaining agreements, memoranda of understanding, or other
agreements between such employers and their employees.
.
