1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preventing Regulatory Overreach To Enhance Care Technology Act of 2014
or the
PROTECT Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings; sense of Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
The mobile health and mobile application economy was created in the United States and is now being
exported globally, with the market expected to exceed $26,000,000,000 by
2017.
(2)
The United States mobile application economy is responsible for nearly 500,000 new jobs in the
United States.
(3)
Consumer health information technologies, including smart phones and tablets, have the potential to
transform health care
delivery through reduced systemic costs, improved patient safety, and
better clinical outcomes.
(4)
Clinical and health software innovation cycles evolve and move faster than the existing regulatory
approval processes.
(5)
Consumers and innovators need a new risk-based framework for the oversight of clinical and health
software
that improves on the framework of the Food and Drug Administration.
(6)
A working group convened jointly by the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications
Commission, and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology identified in a report that there are several major
barriers to the effective regulation of health information technology
that cannot be alleviated without changes to existing law.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the President and Congress must intervene to facilitate interagency coordination across regulators
that focuses agency efforts on fostering health information technology and
mobile health innovation while better protecting patient safety, improving
health care, and creating jobs in the United States;
(2)
the President and the Congress should work together to develop and enact legislation that
establishes a risk-based regulatory framework for such clinical software
and health software that reduces regulatory burdens, fosters innovation,
and, most importantly, improves patient safety;
(3)
The National Institute of Standards and Technology should be the Federal agency that has oversight
over technical standards used by clinical software; and
(4)
The National Institute of Standards and Technology, in collaboration with the Federal
Communications Commission, the National Patient Safety Foundation, and the
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology,
should work on next steps, beyond current oversight efforts, regarding
health information technology, such as collaborating with nongovernmental
entities
to develop certification processes and to promote best
practice standards.
3.
Clinical software and health software
(a)
Definitions
Section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321
) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
(ss)
(1)
The term
clinical software
means clinical decision support software or other software (including any associated hardware and
process dependencies) intended for human or animal use that—
(A)
captures, analyzes, changes, or presents patient or population clinical data or information and may
recommend courses of clinical action, but does not directly change the
structure or any function of the body of man or other animals; and
(B)
is intended to be marketed for use only by a health care provider in a health care setting.
(2)
The term
health software
means software (including any associated hardware and process dependencies) that is not clinical
software and—
(A)
that captures, analyzes, changes, or presents patient or population clinical data or information;
(B)
that supports administrative or operational aspects of health care and is not used in the direct
delivery of patient care; or
(C)
whose primary purpose is to act as a platform for a secondary software, to run or act as a
mechanism for connectivity, or to store data.
(3)
The terms
clinical software
and
health software
do not include software—
(A)
that is intended to interpret patient-specific device data and directly diagnose a patient or
user without the intervention of a health care provider;
(B)
that conducts analysis of radiological or imaging data in order to provide patient-specific
diagnostic and treatment advice to a health care provider;
(C)
whose primary purpose is integral to the function of a drug or device; or
(D)
that is a component of a device.
.
(b)
Prohibition
Subchapter A of chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 351 et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
524B.
Clinical software and health software
Clinical software and health software shall not be subject to regulation under this Act.
.
4.
Exclusion from definition of device
Section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 321(h)
) is amended by adding
at
the end
The term
device
does not include clinical software or health software.
.
