113 HCON 102 IH: Expressing support for designation of June 21 as National ASK (Asking Saves Kids) Day to promote children’s health and gun safety.
U.S. House of Representatives
2014-06-20
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. CON. RES. 102
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 20, 2014
Mr. Cicilline
(for himself,
Mr. Langevin
,
Mr. Meeks
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Ellison
,
Ms. McCollum
, and
Mr. Tierney
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing support for designation of June 21 as National ASK (Asking Saves Kids) Day to promote
children’s health and gun safety.
Whereas on average in 2010, 1 child under the age of 15 died every 6 days due to the unintentional
discharge of a firearm;
Whereas according to estimates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2012,
approximately 667 children sustained nonfatal injuries from the
unintentional discharge of a firearm;
Whereas in States that collect data through the National Violent Death Reporting System, on
average, 80 percent of unintentional firearm deaths of children under 15
occurred in a home;
Whereas the ASK Campaign encourages parents to add one more question to a conversation before their
child visits other homes,
Is there an unlocked gun in your house?
;
Whereas the ASK Campaign was first established by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the
Center to Prevent Youth Violence along with other partners in 2000;
Whereas the President of the AAP has said
keeping children and teens safe from preventable
injuries is one of the most important things we do as pediatricians
;
Whereas according to the National Rifle Association’s Parents Guide to Gun Safety,
Parental
responsibility does not end, however, when the child leaves the home …
Even
if no one in your family owns a gun, chances are that someone you know
does. Your child could come in contact with a gun at a neighbor’s house,
when playing with friends, or under other circumstances outside your
home
;
Whereas asking this simple question about gun safety before sending your child to play at another
home could help save your child’s life;
Whereas June 21, the first day of summer, the season in which kids typically spend more time at a
friend’s or family member’s home, has traditionally been designated as
National ASK Day; and
Whereas June 21, 2014, has been designated by national organizations as the 14th annual National
ASK Day: Now, therefore, be it
That Congress—
(1)
supports designation of National ASK (Asking Saves Kids) Day to encourage parents to begin asking
this life-saving question; and
(2)
supports the goals and ideals of National ASK Day.
