Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   of   (Public Law 99-502), the Trademark Clarification Act of   (Public Law 98-620), and   of   (Public Law 96-517), and in order to ensure that Federal agencies and laboratories assist universities and the private sector in broadening our technology base by moving new knowledge from the research laboratory into the development of new products and processes, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Transfer of  .

(a) The head of   and agency, to the extent permitted by law, shall encourage and facilitate collaboration among Federal laboratories,   and local governments, universities, and the private sector, particularly small business, in order to assist in the transfer of technology to the marketplace.

(b) The head of   and agency shall, within overall funding allocations and to the extent permitted by law:

(1) delegate authority to its government owned, government-operated Federal laboratories:

(A) to enter into cooperative research and development agreements with other Federal laboratories,   and local governments, universities, and the private sector; and

(B) to license, assign, or waive rights to intellectual property developed by the laboratory either under such cooperative research or development agreements and from within individual laboratories.

(2) identify and encourage persons to act as conduits between and among Federal laboratories, universities, and the private sector for the transfer of technology developed from federally funded research and development efforts;

(3) ensure that   and local governments , universities, and the private sector are provided with information on the technology, expertise, and facilities available in Federal laboratories;

(4) promote the commercialization, in accord with my Memorandum to   of  , of patentable results of federally funded research by granting to all contractors, regardless of size, the title to patents made in whole or in part with Federal funds, in exchange for royalty-free use by or on behalf of the government;

(5) implement, as expeditiously as practicable, royalty-sharing programs with inventors who were employees of the agency at the time their inventions were made, and cash award programs; and

(6) cooperate, under policy guidance provided by  , with the heads of other affected departments and agencies in the development of a uniform policy permitting Federal contractors to retain rights to software, engineering drawings, and other technical data generated by Federal grants and contracts, in exchange for royalty-free use by or on behalf of the government.

 . 2. Establishment of  .  , and   and   shall select one or more of their Federal laboratories to participate in  . Consistent with its mission and policies and within its overall funding allocation in  , each   laboratory so selected shall:

(a) Identify areas of research and technology of potential importance to long-term national economic competitiveness and in which the laboratory possesses special competence and/or unique facilities;

(b) Establish a mechanism through which the laboratory performs research in areas identified in Section 2(a) as a participant of a consortium composed of   industries and universities. All consortia so established shall have, at a minimum, three individual companies that conduct the majority of their business in  ; and

(c) Limit its participation in any consortium so established to the use of laboratory personnel and facilities. However, each laboratory may also provide financial support generally not to exceed 25 percent of the total budget for the activities of the consortium. Such financial support by any laboratory in all such consortia shall be limited to a maximum of $5 million per annum.

 . 3. Technology Exchange—Scientists and Engineers. The Executive Director of   shall assist Federal agencies, where appropriate, by developing and implementing an exchange program whereby scientists and engineers in the private sector may take temporary assignments in Federal laboratories, and scientists and engineers in Federal laboratories may take temporary assignments in the private sector.

 . 4.  . In order to ensure that   benefits from and fully exploits scientific research and technology developed abroad,

(a) The head of   and agency, when negotiating or entering into cooperative research and development agreements and licensing arrangements with foreign persons or industrial organizations (where these entities are directly or indirectly controlled by a foreign company or government), shall, in consultation with  , give appropriate consideration:

(1) to whether such foreign companies or governments permit and encourage   agencies, organizations, or persons to enter into cooperative research and development agreements and licensing arrangements on a comparable basis;

(2) to whether those foreign governments have policies to protect   intellectual property rights; and

(3) where cooperative research will involve data, technologies, or products subject to national security export controls under the laws of  , to whether those foreign governments have adopted adequate measures to prevent the transfer of strategic technology to destinations prohibited under such national security export controls, either through participation in   ( ) or through other international agreements to which   and such foreign governments are signatories.

(b) The Secretary of   shall develop a recruitment policy that encourages scientists and engineers from other Federal agencies, academic institutions, and industry to apply for assignments in embassies of  ; and

(c) The Secretaries of State and Commerce and the Director of   shall develop a central mechanism for the prompt and efficient dissemination of science and technology information developed abroad to users in Federal laboratories, academic institutions, and the private sector on a fee-for-service basis.

 . 5. Technology Transfer from  . Within   of this  , the Secretary of   shall identify a list of funded technologies that would be potentially useful to   industries and universities. The Secretary shall then accelerate efforts to make these technologies more readily available to   industries and universities.

 . 6. Basic  . The head of   and agency shall examine the potential for including the establishment of university research centers in engineering, science, or technology in the strategy and planning for any future research and development programs. Such university centers shall be jointly funded by  , the private sector, and, where appropriate, the   and shall focus on areas of fundamental research and technology that are both scientifically promising and have the potential to contribute to the  's long-term economic competitiveness.

 . 7. Reporting Requirements.

(a) Within   from the date of this  , the Director of   Policy shall convene an interagency task force comprised of the heads of representative agencies and the directors of representative Federal laboratories, or their designees, in order to identify and disseminate creative approaches to technology transfer from Federal laboratories. The task force will report to the President on the progress of and problems with technology transfer from Federal laboratories.

(b) Specifically, the report shall include:

(1) a listing of current technology transfer programs and an assessment of the effectiveness of these programs;

(2) identification of new or creative approaches to technology transfer that might serve as model programs for Federal laboratories;

(3) criteria to assess the effectiveness and impact on the  's economy of planned or future technology transfer efforts; and

(4) a compilation and assessment of   established in Section 2 and, where appropriate, related cooperative research and development venture programs.

 . 8. Relation to Existing Law. Nothing in this   shall affect the continued applicability of any existing laws or regulations relating to the transfer of   technology to other nations. The head of any Executive department or agency may exclude from consideration, under this  , any technology that would be, f transferred, detrimental to the interests of national security.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:10 a.m.,  ]
