Executive Order  —Establishment of Emergency Board No. 201 To Investigate a Railroad Labor Dispute
 
 

Establishing  A dispute exists between   and certain labor organizations, designated on the list attached hereto and made a part hereof, representing employees of  .

The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended ("the Act").

 , the parent body of  , has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to Section 9A of the Act.

Section 9A(e) of the Act provides that the President, upon request of a party, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.

Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me by Section 9A of the Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. § 159a), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Board. There is established, effective immediately, a board of three members to be appointed by the President to investigate this dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier.

 . 2. Report. Within   after creation of the board the parties to the dispute shall submit to the board final offers for settlement of the dispute. Within   after the submission of final offers the board shall submit a report to the President setting forth its selection of the most reasonable offer.

 . 3.  . As provided by Section 9A(h) of the Act, as amended, from the time a request to establish a board is made until   after the board makes its report, no change, except by agreement, shall be made by the parties in the conditions out of which the dispute arose.

 . 4. Expiration. The Emergency Board shall terminate upon submission of the report provided for in  . 2 of this  .

 

 ,

 .

Labor Organizations

ARASA Division,   and   of Railway Carmen of   and  

International Association of Machinists and  

International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers

Police Benevolent Association

Railroad Yardmasters of America

Sheet Metal Workers International Association

United Transportation Union

[Filed with  , 10:52 a.m.,  ]
