Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory commission on compensation of career   executives, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. There is established  . The   shall be composed of seven members, to be appointed or designated by the President, not more than four of whom shall be employees of the Federal government. The President shall designate the Chairman of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall study the levels of compensation paid to career members of   (SES) and shall advise the President and the Director of   on its findings and recommendations, including its conclusions on:

(1) what effects inflation has had on these pay levels;

(2) how these pay levels compare with those of similarly situated executives in the private sector;

(3) how these pay levels affect the recruitment and retention of career executives in the Federal service;

(4) whether these pay levels are appropriate;

(5) how compensation of   should relate to compensation of (a) Executive Level employees, and (b) GS/  employees; and

(6) whether legislation should be proposed to alter the President's authority to adjust SES compensation levels.

(b) The   shall report its findings and recommendations to the President and the Director of    .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent provided by law, provide the   such information with respect to the compensation of career   executives as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Director of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   established by this  , shall be performed by the Director of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submission of its report to the President.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:12 a.m.,  ]
