Executive Order  —Statistical Policy Functions
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Reorganization Plan No. 2 of   (5 U.S.C. App. II), Section 202 of   of   (31 U.S.C. 581c), Section 3(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of   (Public Law 96-511, 94 Stat.  , 44 U.S.C. 3503 note), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to transfer, redelegate, and reassign certain statistical policy functions from the Secretary of   to the Director of  , and to require redelegation of certain functions to the Administrator for  , it is hereby ordered as follow:

Section 1. Sec. l(c) of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, is amended by deleting the last phrase "is terminated on  " and substituting therefor "shall be implemented in accord with Section 3(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of   (94 Stat.  ; 44 U.S.C. 3503 note), to the extent that provision is applicable".

Sec. 2. Executive  . 10253 of  , as amended, is further amended as follows:

(a) "Secretary of Commerce" is deleted in Section i and "Director of  " is substituted therefor.

(b) "Secretary" is deleted wherever it appears in  , 1,  ,  ,  , and 6 and "Director" is substituted therefor.

(c) " " is deleted in Section 6 and " " is substituted therefor.

(d) Section 7 is deleted and a new Section 7 is substituted therefor as follows:

"Sec. 7. As required by Section 3(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of   (94 Stat.  ; 44 U.S.C. 3503 note), the Director shall redelegate to the Administrator for  ,  , all functions, authority, and responsibility under Section 103 of   of   (31 U.S.C.  ) which have been vested in the Director by this  .".

(e) Section 8 is revoked.

 . 3. Executive  .  , as amended, is further amended as follows:

(a) "Secretary of  , hereinafter referred to as the Secretary,", is deleted in Section 1 and "Director of  , hereinafter referred to as the Director,", is substituted therefor.

(b) "Secretary" is deleted wherever it appears in   2(a), 2(b), 2(c), 3,  , and 5

and "Director" is substituted therefor.(c) Section 7 is revoked.

 . 4. (a) Executive Order No.   is revoked.

(b) Section 4 of Executive Order No.  , as amended, is further amended by deleting "the Secretary of   shall perform the functions set forth in  ) and 5(c) of the Act", and substituting therefor "the Secretary of   shall perform the function of making periodic reports to the Committees of the   as set forth in Section 4(a)(3) of the Act".

 . 5. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred or reassigned from the Secretary of   to the Director of   by the delegations made in this  , are hereby transferred to the Director of  .

 . 6. The Director of   shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all steps necessary or appropriate to ensure or effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this  , including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.

 . 7. Any rules, regulations, orders, directives, circulars, or other actions taken pursuant to the functions transferred or reassigned from the Secretary of   to the Director of   by the delegations made in this  , shall remain in effect until amended, modified, or revoked pursuant to the delegations made in this  .

 . 8. This   shall be effective  .

 

 ,

 .

]Filed with  , 3:44 p.m.,  ]
