Executive Order  —  on the Space Shuttle Challenger Accident
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to establish a commission of distinguished   to investigate the accident to  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of not more than 20 members appointed or designated by the President. The members shall be drawn from among distinguished leaders of the government, and the scientific, technical, and management communities.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall investigate the accident to  , which occurred on  .

(b) The   shall:

(1) Review the circumstances surrounding the accident to establish the probable cause or causes of the accident; and

(2) Develop recommendations for corrective or other action based upon the  's findings and determinations.

(c) The   shall submit its final report to the President and   within one hundred and twenty days of the date of this  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under   which are applicable to the  , except that of reporting   to the  , shall be performed by  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after submitting its final report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:37 p.m.,  ]
