Executive Order  —Commercial Expendable Launch Vehicle Activities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to encourage, facilitate and coordinate the development of commercial expendable launch vehicle ( ) operations by private   enterprises, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.   is designated as the lead agency within the Federal government for encouraging and facilitating commercial   activities by   private sector.

 . 2. Responsibilities of Lead Agency. The Secretary of   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, perform the following functions:

(a) act as a focal point within the Federal government for private sector space launch contacts related to commercial   operations;

(b) promote and encourage commercial   operations in the same manner that other private   commercial enterprises are promoted by   agencies;

(c) provide leadership in the establishment, within affected departments and agencies, of procedures that expedite the processing of private sector requests to obtain licenses necessary for commercial   launches and the establishment and operation of commercial launch ranges;

(d) consult with other affected agencies to promote consistent application of   licensing requirements for the private sector and assure fair and equitable treatment for all private sector applicants;

(e) serve as a single point of contact for collection and dissemination of documentation related to commercial   licensing applications;

(f) make recommendations to affected agencies and, as appropriate, to the President, concerning administrative measures to streamline Federal government procedures for licensing of commercial   activities;

(g) identify Federal statutes, treaties, regulations and policies which may have an adverse impact on   commercialization efforts and recommend appropriate changes to affected agencies and, as appropriate, to the President; and

(h) conduct appropriate planning regarding long-term effects of Federal activities related to   commercialization.

 . 3. An interagency group, chaired by the Secretary of   and composed of representatives from  ,  ,  ,  , and  , is hereby established. This group shall meet at the call of the   and shall advise and assist   in performing its responsibilities under this  .

 . 4. Responsibilities of Other Agencies. All executive departments and agencies shall assist the Secretary of   in carrying out this  . To the extent permitted by law and in consultation with the Secretary of  , they shall:

(a) provide the Secretary of   with information concerning agency regulatory actions which may affect development of commercial   operations;

(b) review and revise their regulations and procedures to eliminate unnecessary regulatory obstacles to the development of commercial   operations and to ensure that those regulations and procedures found essential are administered as efficiently as possible; and

(c) establish timetables for the expeditious handling of and response to applications for licenses and approvals for commercial   activities.

 . 5. The powers granted to the Secretary of   to encourage, facilitate and coordinate the overall   commercialization process shall not diminish or abrogate any statutory or operational authority exercised by any other Federal agency.

 . 6. Nothing contained in this   or in any procedures promulgated hereunder shall confer any substantive or procedural right or privilege on any person or organization, enforceable against  , its agencies, its officers or any person.

 . 7. This   shall be effective immediately.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:25 p.m.,  ]
