Executive Order  —   
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.),   (50 U.S.C.   et seq.), sections 504 and 505 of   of   (Public Law 99-83), section 1114 of the Federal Aviation Act of  , as amended (49 U.S.C.  ), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code,

I,  , President of  , find that the policies and actions of   constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of   and hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.

I hereby order:

Section 1. The following are prohibited, except to the extent provided in regulations which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this Order:

(a) The import into   of any goods or services of   origin, other than publications and materials imported for news publications or news broadcast dissemination;

(b) The export to   of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information) or services from  , except publications and donations of articles intended to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, medicine and medical supplies intended strictly for medical purposes;

(c) Any transaction by a   person relating to transportation to or from  ; the provision of transportation to or from   by any   person or any vessel or aircraft of   registration; or the sale in   by any person holding authority under the Federal Aviation Act of any transportation by air which includes any stop in  ;

(d) The purchase by any   person of goods for export from (e) The performance by any   person of any contract in support of an industrial or other commercial or governmental project in  ;

(f) The grant or extension of credits or loans by any   person to  , its instrumentalities and controlled entities;

(g) Any transaction by a   person relating to travel by any   citizen or permanent resident alien to  , or to activities by any such person within  , after the date of this  , other than transactions necessary to effect such person's departure from  , to perform acts permitted until  , by Section 3 of this  , or travel for journalistic activity by persons regularly employed in such capacity by a news gathering organization; and

(h) Any transaction by any   person which evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, any of the prohibitions set forth in this  .

For purposes of this  , the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of   or any person in  .

 . 2. In light of the prohibition in  ) of this  , section 251 of the Trade Expansion Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 126 of the Trade Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ) will have no effect with respect to  .

 . 3. This   is effective immediately, except that the prohibitions set forth in Section l(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) shall apply as of 12:01 a.m.  ,  .

 . 4. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Order. Such actions may include prohibiting or regulating payments or transfers of any property or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value by any   person to  , its instrumentalities and controlled entities, or to any   national or entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by   or   nationals. The Secretary may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the Federal government. All agencies of the   government are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this  , including the suspension or termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the date of this  .

This Order shall be transmitted to the   and published in  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:16 a.m.,  ]
