Executive Order  —Superfund Implementation
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President of   by Section 115 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.   et seq.) ("the Act"), and by Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. National Contingency Plan. (a)(1)   ("the  "), shall provide for   ("the  ") composed of representatives of appropriate Federal departments and agencies for national planning and coordination of preparedness and response actions, and regional response teams as the regional counterpart to the   for planning and coordination of regional preparedness and response actions.

(2) The following agencies (in addition to other appropriate agencies) shall provide representatives to   to carry out their responsibilities under the  :  ,  ,    ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

(3) Except for periods of activation because of a response action, the representative of   (" ") shall be the chairman and the representative of   shall be the vice chairman of the   and these agencies' representatives shall be co-chairs of   ("the RRTs"). When the   or an   is activated for a response action, the chairman shall be the   or   representative, based on whether the release or threatened release occurs in the inland or coastal zone, unless otherwise agreed upon by the   and   representatives.

(4) The RRTs may include representatives from   governments, local governments (as agreed upon by the  ), and   tribal governments. Subject to the functions and authorities delegated to Executive departments and agencies in other sections of this  , the   shall provide policy and program direction to the RRTs.

(b)(1) The responsibility for the revision of the   and all of the other functions vested in the President by Sections 105(a), (b), (c), and (g), 125, and 301(f) of the Act is delegated to   ("the Administrator").

(2) The function vested in the President by Section 118(p) of   of   (Public Law 99-499) ("SARA") is delegated to the Administrator.

(c) In accord with Section 107(f)(2)(A) of the Act and Section 311(f)(5) of  , as amended (33 U.S.C.  )), the following shall be among those designated in the   as   trustees for natural resources:

(1) Secretary of  ;

(2) Secretary of the  ;

(3) Secretary of  ;

(4) Secretary of  ;

(5) Secretary of  .

(d) Revisions to the   shall be made in consultation with members of the   prior to publication for notice and comment. Revisions shall also be made in consultation with the Director of   and   in order to avoid inconsistent or duplicative requirements in the emergency planning responsibilities of those agencies.

(e) All revisions to the  , whether in proposed or final form, shall be subject to review and approval by the Director of   ("OMB").

 . 2. Response and Related Authorities. (a) The functions vested in the President by the first sentence of Section 104(b)(1) of the Act relating to "illness, disease, or complaints thereof' are delegated to the Secretary of   who shall, in accord with Section 104(i) of the Act, perform those functions through  .

(b) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(e)(7)(C), 113(k)(2), 119(c)(7), and 121(f)(1) of the Act, relating to promulgation of regulations and guidelines, are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the  .

(c)(1) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a) and the second sentence of 126(b) of the Act, to the extent they require permanent relocation of residents, businesses, and community facilities or temporary evacuation and housing of threatened individuals not otherwise provided for, are delegated to the Director of  .

(2) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 117(a) and (c), and 119 of the Act, to the extent such authority is needed to carry out the functions delegated under paragraph (1)of this subsection, are delegated to the Director of  .

(d) Subject to subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b) and (c)(4), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, and 121 of the Act are delegated to  , with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of their departments, respectively, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. These functions must be exercised consistent with the requirements of Section 120 of the Act.

(e)(1) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b), and (c)(4), and 121 of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to remedial actions for releases or threatened releases which are not on   ("the  ") and removal actions other than emergencies, where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated. The Administrator shall define the term "emergency", solely for the purposes of this subsection, either by regulation or by a memorandum of understanding with the head of an   department or agency.

(2) Subject to subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(b)(2), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), and 119 of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated.

(f) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 104(a), (b) and (c)(4), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, and 121 of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the   in which   is operating (" "), with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(g) Subject to subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 101(24), 104(a), (b), (c)(4) and (c)(9), 113(k), 117(a) and (c), 119, 121, and 126(b) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator. The Administrator's authority under Section 119 of the Act is retroactive to the date of enactment of SARA.

(h) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, with respect to providing assurances for   tribes, to be exercised in consultation with the Secretary of the  .

(i) Subject to subsections (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 104(c) and (d) of the Act are delegated to  , the Secretary of  , the Director of  , and the Administrator in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Section.

(j)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 104(e)(5)(A) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility or vessel under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies, to be exercised with the concurrence of the Attorney General.

(2) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section and paragraph (1) of this subsection, the functions vested in the President by Section 104(e) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out their functions under this   or the Act.

(k) The functions vested in the President by Sections 104(f), (g), (h), (i)(11), and (j) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this Section. The exercise of authority under Section 104(h) of the Act shall be subject to the approval of  .

 . 3.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by Sections 116(a) and the first two sentences of 105(d) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies with respect to facilities under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those departments and agencies.

(b) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 116 and 105(d) are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 4. Enforcement. (a) The functions vested in the President by Sections 109(d) and 122(e) (3) (A) of the Act, relating to development of regulations and guidelines, are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Attorney General.

(b)(1) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 122 (except subsection (b)(1)) are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases not on the   where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those   departments and agencies. These functions may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General.

(2) Subject to subsection (a) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 122 of the Act, are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies, with respect to releases or threatened releases not on the   where either the release is on or the sole source of the release is from any facility under the jurisdiction, custody or control of those   departments and agencies. These functions may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General.

(c)(1) Subject to subsection (a) and (b)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 106(a) and 122 of the Act are delegated to   with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(2) Subject to subsection (a) and (b)(2) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Sections 103(a) and (b), and 122 of the Act, are delegated to   with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(d)(1) Subject to subsections (a), (b)(1), and (c)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Sections 106 and 122 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) Subject to subsections (a), (b)(2), and (c)(2) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of   and 122 of the Act, are delegated to the Administrator.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  , the authority under Sections 104(e)(5)(A) and 106(a) of the Act to seek information, entry, inspection, samples, or response actions from   departments and agencies may be exercised only with the concurrence of the Attorney General.

 . 5. Liability. (a) The function vested in the President by Section 107(c)(1)(c) of the Act is delegated to the Secretary of  .

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to   with respect to any release or threatened release involving the coastal zone,   waters, ports, and harbors.

(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 107(c)(3) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(d) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(f)(1) of the Act are delegated to each of the   trustees for natural resources designated in the   for resources under their trusteeship.

(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(f)(2)(B) of the Act, to receive notification of the state natural resource trustee designations, are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 6. Litigation. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  , any representation pursuant to or under this   in any judicial proceeding shall be by or through the Attorney General. The conduct and control of all litigation arising under the Act shall be the responsibility of the Attorney General.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  , the authority under the Act to require the Attorney General to commence litigation is retained by the President.

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 113(g) of the Act, to receive notification of a natural resource trustee's intent to file suit, are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies with respect to response actions for which they have been delegated authority under Section 2 of this Order. The Administrator shall promulgate procedural regulations for providing such notification.

(d) The functions vested in the President by Sections 310 (d) and (e) of the Act, relating to promulgation of regulations, are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 7.  . (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 107(k)(4)(B) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the  . The Administrator will provide the Secretary with such technical information and assistance as the Administrator may have available.

(b)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(a)(1) of the Act are delegated to  .

(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this  , the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(1) of the Act, are delegated to  .

(c)(1) The functions vested in the President by Section 108(b) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to all transportation related facilities, including any pipeline, motor vehicle, rolling stock, or aircraft.

(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this  , the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(3) of the Act, are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(3) Subject to Section 4(a) of this  , the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(b) of the Act, are delegated to the Secretary of   with respect to all transportation related facilities, including any pipeline, motor vehicle, rolling stock, or aircraft.

(d)(1) Subject to subsection (c)(1) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 108(a)(4) and (b) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(2) Subject to Section 4(a) of this   and subsection (c)(3) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 109 of the Act, relating to violations of Section 108(a)(4) and (b) of the Act, are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 8.   and Notice to Injured. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 110(e) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(b) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to   with respect to releases from facilities or vessels under the jurisdiction, custody or control of their departments, respectively, including vessels bare-boat chartered and operated.

(c) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section, the functions vested in the President by Section 111(g) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

 . 9. Management of the Hazardous Substance Superfund and Claims. (a) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(a) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, subject to the provisions of this Section and other applicable provisions of this  .

(b) The Administrator shall transfer to other agencies, from   out of sums appropriated, such amounts as the Administrator may determine necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act. These amounts shall be consistent with the President's  , within the total approved by the  , unless a revised amount is approved by OMB. Funds appropriated specifically for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ("ATSDR"), shall be directly transferred to  , consistent with fiscally responsible investment of trust fund money.

(c) The Administrator shall chair a budget task force composed of representatives of   departments and agencies having responsibilities under this   or the Act. The Administrator shall also, as part of the budget request for  , submit to OMB a budget for   which is based on recommended levels developed by the budget task force. The Administrator may prescribe reporting and other forms, procedures, and guidelines to be used by the agencies of   in preparing the budget request, consistent with budgetary reporting requirements issued by OMB. The Administrator shall prescribe forms to agency task force members for reporting the expenditure of funds on a site specific basis.

(d) The Administrator and each department and agency head to whom funds are provided pursuant to this Section, with respect to funds provided to them, are authorized in accordance with Section 111(t) of the Act to designate   officials who may obligate such funds.

(e) The functions vested in the President by Section 112 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator for all claims presented pursuant to Section 111 of the Act.

(f) The functions vested in the President by Section 111(o) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(g) The functions vested in the President by Section 117(e) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Attorney General.

(h) The functions vested in the President by Section 123 of the Act are delegated to the Administrator.

(i) Funds from   may be used, at the discretion of the Administrator or  , to pay for removal actions for releases or threatened releases from facilities or vessels under the jurisdiction, custody or control of   departments and agencies but must be reimbursed to   by such Executive department or agency.

 . 10.  . (a) When necessary, prior to selection of a remedial action by the Administrator under Section 120(e)(4)(A) of the Act, Executive agencies shall have the opportunity to present their views to the Administrator after using the procedures under Section 1-6 of Executive Order No.   of  , or any other mutually acceptable process. Notwithstanding subsection 1-602 of Executive Order No.  , the Director of   shall facilitate resolution of any issues.

(b) Executive Order No.   of  , is amended by renumbering the current Section 1-802 as Section 1-803 and inserting the following new Section 1-802:

"1-802. Nothing in this   shall create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person."

 . 11.  . (a) The function vested in the President by Section 101 (37) of the Act is delegated to the Administrator.

(b)(1) The function vested in the President by Section 105(1) of the Act, relating to reporting on minority participation in contracts, is delegated to the Administrator.

(2) Subject to paragraph i of this subsection, the functions vested in the President by Section 105(1) of the Act are delegated to the heads of Executive departments and agencies in order to carry out the functions delegated to them by this  . Each Executive department and agency shall provide to the Administrator any requested information on minority contracting for inclusion in the Section 105(1)   report.

(c) The functions vested in the President by Section 126(c) of the Act are delegated to the Administrator, to be exercised in consultation with the Secretary of the  .

(d) The functions vested in the President by Section 301(c) of the Act are delegated to the Secretary of the  .

(e) Each agency shall have authority to issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the functions delegated to them by this  .

(f) The performance of any function under this   shall be done in consultation with interested Federal departments and agencies represented on the  , as well as with any other interested Federal agency.

(g) The following functions vested in the President by the Act which have been delegated or assigned by this   may be redelegated to the head of any Executive department or agency with his consent: functions set forth in   (except subsection (b)), 3,  ), 4(c), 4(d), 5(b), 5(c), and 8(c) of this  .

(h) Executive Order No.   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 2:35 p.m.,  ]

Note: The Executive order was released by   Secretary on  .
