Executive Order  —President's Commission on Strategic Forces
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on strategic forces, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   on Strategic Forces. The   shall be composed of no more than 15 members appointed or designated by the President. These members shall have particular knowledge and expertise concerning the national security, strategic forces, or foreign relations of  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall review the strategic modernization program for   forces, with particular reference to the intercontinental ballistic missile system and basing alternatives for that system, and provide appropriate advice to the President,  , and  .

(b) The   shall report to the President by  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions. Information supplied to or developed by the   shall not, to the extent permitted by law, be available for public inspection.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ), to the extent funds are available therefor.

(c) The Secretary of   shall provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff and other support services as may be necessary. Any expenses of the   shall be paid from such funds as may be available to the Secretary of  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting to the  , which are applicable to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate   after its report, unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 12:04 p.m.,  ]
