Executive Order  — 
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , including Section 401(a) of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of   (42 U.S.C. 4231(a)) and Section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and in order to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on   and local processes for the   and local government coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Federal agencies shall provide opportunities for consultation by elected officials of those   and local governments that would provide the non-Federal funds for, or that would be directly affected by, proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development.

 . 2. To the extent the  , in consultation with local general purpose governments, and local special purpose governments they consider appropriate, develop their own processes or refine existing processes for   and local elected officials to review and coordinate proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development, the   agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) Utilize the   process to determine official views of   and local elected officials.

(b) Communicate with   and local elected officials as early in the program planning cycle as is reasonably feasible to explain specific plans and actions.

(c) Make efforts to accommodate   and local elected officials' concerns with proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development that are communicated through the designated State process. For those cases where the concerns cannot be accommodated,   officials shall explain the bases for their decision in a timely manner.

(d) Allow the   to simplify and consolidate existing Federally required State plan submissions. Where   planning and budgeting systems are sufficient and where permitted by law, the substitution of   plans for Federally required State plans shall be encouraged by the agencies.

(e) Seek the coordination of views of affected   and local elected officials in one   with those of another   when proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development has an impact on interstate metropolitan urban centers or other interstate areas. Existing interstate mechanisms that are redesignated as part of the   process may be used for this purpose.

(f) Support State and local governments by discouraging the reauthorization or creation of any planning organization which is Federally-funded, which has a Federally-prescribed membership, which is established for a limited purpose, and which is not adequately representative of, or accountable to,   or local elected officials.

 . 3. (a) The   process referred to in Section 2 shall include those where   delegate, in specific instances, to local elected officials the review, coordination, and communication with Federal agencies.

(b) At the discretion of the   and local elected officials, the   process may exclude certain Federal programs from review and comment.

 . 4.   (OMB) shall maintain a list of official   entities designated by the States to review and coordinate proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development.   shall disseminate such lists to the   agencies.

 . 5. (a) Agencies shall propose rules and regulations governing the formulation, evaluation, and review of proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development pursuant to this  , to be submitted to   for approval.

(b) The rules and regulations which result from the process indicated in Section 5(a) above shall replace any current rules and regulations and become effective  .

 . 6. The Director of   is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations, if any, as he deems appropriate for the effective implementation and administration of this   and the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of  . The Director is also authorized to exercise the authority vested in the President by Section 401(a) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 4231(a)), in a manner consistent with this  .

 . 7. The Memorandum of  , is terminated (33  .  .  ). The Director of   shall revoke OMB  , which was issued pursuant to that Memorandum. However, Federal agencies shall continue to comply with the rules and regulations issued pursuant to that  , including those issued by  , until new rules and regulations have been issued in accord with this  .

 . 8. The Director of   shall report to the President within   on   agency compliance with this  . The views of   and local elected officials on their experiences with these policies, along with any suggestions for improvement, will be included in the Director's report.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 3:18 p.m.,  ]
