Executive Order  —Amending  
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 503(a)(2)(A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), in order to modify, as provided by sections 504 (a) and (c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.   (a) and (c)), the limitations on preferential treatment for eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries; and to adjust the original designation of eligible articles after taking into account information and advice received in fulfillment of sections 131-134 and 503(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2151-2154,  ), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for purposes of   ( ),     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ) are modified as provided in   I to this  .

 . 2. Annex II of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is amended as set forth in Annex II to this  .

 . 3.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in General Headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is amended as set forth in Annex III to this  .

 . 4. General  ) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified as set forth in Annex IV to this  .

 . 5. In order to provide staged reductions in the rates of duty for those new   items created by   I to this  , Annex III to Proclamation 4707 and   Proclamation 4768 are amended as set forth in Annex V to this  .

 . 6. Whenever the column 1 rate of duty in the   for any item specified in   I to this   is reduced to the same level as, or to a lower level than, the corresponding rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" by   I to this  , the rate of duty in the column entitled "LDDC" for such item shall be deleted from the  .

 . 7.   and IV of Proclamation 4707 and Annexes II, III, and IV of Proclamation 4768 are superseded to the extent inconsistent with this  .

 . 8. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of the  , listing the designated beneficiary developing countries for purposes of the  , is modified as provided in Annex VI to this  .

 . 9(a). The amendments made by the sections designated "A" in the   to this  , by section C of Annex I, by section B of Annex V, and by   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on and after the date that is   after the date of publication of this   in  .

(b) Unless otherwise specified, the remaining amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:02 p.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes were printed in  .
