Executive Order  —President's   on Cost Control in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee to study cost control in  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established   of the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control in  . The   shall be composed of not more than 150 members appointed by the President from among citizens in private life.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall conduct a private sector survey on cost control in   and shall advise the President and the Secretary of  , and other Executive agency heads with respect to improving management and reducing costs.

(b) The   shall conduct in-depth reviews of the operations of the   agencies as a basis for evaluating potential improvements in agency operations.

(c) In fulfilling its functions the   shall consider providing recommendations in the following areas:

(1) Opportunities for increased efficiency and reduced costs in   that can be realized by Executive action or legislation;

(2) Areas where managerial accountability can be enhanced and administrative control . can be improved;

(3) Opportunities for managerial improvements over both the short and long term;

(4) Specific areas where further study can be justified by potential savings; and

(5) Information and data relating to governmental expenditures, indebtedness, and personnel management.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Secretary of  , the   and its staff units such information, including that relating to the structure, organization, personnel and operations of the   agencies, as may be required for carrying out the purposes of this  .

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation.

(c) A management office may provide overall administrative staff support to the  , guide the day-to-day operations of the Survey and provide liaison with   of the President; separate unit staffs may be utilized to provide such staff support as is necessary to accomplish reviews of individual agencies.

(d) The Secretary of Commerce shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such information, administrative services, facilities, staff and other support services it may require.

(e) The   is to be funded, staffed and equipped, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, by the private sector without cost to  . To accomplish this objective, it is expected that the Secretary of   will engage in a joint project, with a nonprofit organization, pursuant to Section 1 of Public Law 91-412 (15 U.S.C.  ), for the purpose of providing staff support to the   as described in Section 3(c).

 . 4.  . (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) In accordance with  , as amended, the   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:28 p.m.,  ]
