Executive Order  —President's  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the domestic and international economic policy of  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established the President's  . The Board shall be composed of members from private life who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the Board. The Assistant to the President for   shall serve as the Secretary to the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President with respect to the objectives and conduct of the overall domestic and international economic policy of  .

(b) The Board shall work with   (composed of the Secretaries of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and  , and the Chairman of  , and the Director of  ).

(c) In the performance of its advisory duties the   shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of economic policy, and shall report thereon to the President whenever requested.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information with respect to economic policy matters as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. Information supplied to the   shall, to the extent permitted by law, be kept confidential.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Board. However, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) Any expenses of the   shall be paid from funds available for  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, shall be performed by the President, except that,   shall, on a reimbursable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required. (b) The Board shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:33 a.m.,  ]

Note: The text of the   order was released by   Secretary on  .
