Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of  , and in order to establish a  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established a   ( ).   shall be composed of:

(1) the Secretary of the  , or his designee;

(2) the Chairman of   of  , or his designee;

(3) the Chairman of  , or his designee; and

(4) the Chairman of  , or her designee. (b) The Secretary of the  , or his designee, shall be the Chairman of  .

 . 2. Purposes and  . (a) Recognizing the goals of enhancing the integrity, efficiency, orderliness, and competitiveness of our  's financial markets and maintaining investor confidence, the   shall identify and consider:

(1) the major issues raised by the numerous studies on the events in the financial markets surrounding  , and any of those recommendations that have the potential to achieve the goals noted above; and

(2) the actions, including governmental actions under existing laws and regulations (such as policy coordination and contingency planning), that are appropriate to carry out these recommendations.

(b)   shall consult, as appropriate, with representatives of the various exchanges, clearinghouses, self-regulatory bodies, and with major market participants to determine private sector solutions wherever possible.

(c)   shall report to the President initially within   (and periodically thereafter) on its progress and, if appropriate, its views on any recommended legislative changes.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out this  .

(b) Members of   shall serve without additional compensation for their work on  .

(c) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds therefor,   shall provide   with such administrative and support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 11:23 a.m.,  ]
