Executive Order  —Management Reform in  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , and in order to coordinate and implement policies with respect to management reform in the Federal government, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of the President's  .

(a) There is established as an interagency committee the President's  .

(b) The   shall be composed of the following members:

(1) The Deputy Director of  , who shall be Chairman of the  ;

(2) The Assistant Secretary for  ;

(3) The Assistant Secretary for    ;

(4) The Assistant Secretary (Comptroller),  ;

(5) The Deputy Under Secretary for  ;

(6) The Assistant Secretary for  ,  ;

(7) The Assistant Secretary for  ;

(8) The Assistant Secretary for    ;

(9) The Assistant Secretary for  ,  ;

(10) The Assistant Attorney General for Administration,  ;

(11) The Assistant Secretary for  ;

(12) The Assistant Secretary for  ,  ;

(13) The Assistant Secretary for    ;

(14) The Assistant Secretary for    ;

(15) The Assistant to    ;

(16) The Assistant Administrator for  ;

(17) The Deputy Administrator,  ;

(18)  ,  ;

(19) The Associate Director for  ;

(20) The Associate Director for Administration,  ;

(21) The Associate Deputy Administrator for Resource Management, Small Business Administration;

(22) The Associate Deputy Administrator for Information and Resources Management,  ;

(23) The Assistant to the President for Policy Development, or a   employee designated by that official, to advise on management and administration; and

(24) The Assistant to the President for  , or a   employee designated by that official, to advise on human resource development.

 . 2. Functions of the  . The   shall:

(a) develop and oversee the implementation of improved management and administrative systems for government-wide application;

(b) formulate long-range plans to promote improvements in the management and administrative systems of the Federal government;

(c) identify specific department and agency management reforms applicable to other agencies and assist in their implementation;

(d) work to resolve interagency management problems; and

(e) work with  ,   and   to ensure timely implementation and coordination of their policies.

In conducting these functions, the   shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibility in the departments and agencies.

 . 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. The Chairman shall:

(a) establish, in consultation with the members of the  , procedures for the   and establish the agenda for   activities;

(b) On behalf of the  , report to the President; the goals and the results of the   on management projects shall be reported to the President through  ; the Chairman shall advise the   with respect to the reaction of the President and   to its activities;

(c) provide agency heads with summary reports of the activities of the  ;

(d) establish such committees of the  , including an executive committee, as may be deemed necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of   functions; committees of the   may act for the   in those areas that affect the membership of the committee;

(e) appoint Vice-Chairmen to   terms to assist the Chairman in representing the   and perform duties as determined by the Chairman;

(f) appoint other   officials as at-large members to   terms to provide special expertise to the   and perform duties as determined by the Chairman; and

(g) be supported by the Associate Director for  , who shall advise and assist the Chairman in the execution of the entire range of responsibilities set forth above and act for the Chairman in his absence.

 . 4. Administrative Provisions.

(a) The Director of   shall provide the   with such administrative support as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

(b) The head of each agency represented on the   shall provide its representative with such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law, to enable the agency representative to carry out his or her responsibilities.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  ,  ,  ]
