Executive Order  — 
 
 

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Title V of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C.   et seq.), as amended, section 604 of the Trade Act of   (19 U.S.C.  ), and section 503(a)(2)(A) of the Trade Agreements Act of   (93 Stat. 251), and as President of  , in order to provide for the continuation, to the greatest extent possible, of preferential treatment under   ( ) for articles that are currently eligible for such treatment and that are imported from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries, consistent with the changes to     (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.  ), which have resulted from the recent enactment of   of   (Public Law 98-573), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. In order to take into account the changes made by   of  , Annex II of Executive Order No.   of  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, is further amended as set forth in Annex 1 to this  .

 . 2.   of Executive Order No.  , as amended, listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   when imported from all designated beneficiary countries except those specified in general headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , is further amended as set forth in Annex II to this  .

 . 3. General headnote 3(c)(iii) of the  , listing articles that are eligible for benefits of the   except when imported from the beneficiary countries listed opposite those articles, is modified as set forth in Annex III to this  .

 . 4. (a) The amendments made by the paragraphs numbered (b) in   I, Annex II, and   to this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

(b) The remaining amendments made by this   shall be effective with respect to articles both: (1) imported on or after  , and (2) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after  .

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 10:41 a.m.,  ]

Note: The annexes were printed in  .
