Executive Order  —Designation of  , the Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal, and   as Public International Organizations
 
 

  for   to the Panama Canal, and  

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of  , including Section 1 of the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288), Reorganization Plan No. 4 of  , and   (22 U.S.C. 283aa-283ii), and having found that   participates in the Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal pursuant to   of   and the Panama Canal Act (22 U.S.C.  ) and participates in   pursuant to   and   (16 U.S.C.   et seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  , in which   participates pursuant to   and  , is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by  . This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges and immunities that such organization has acquired or may acquire by treaty or congressional action. This designation shall not affect in any way the applicability of Sections 3 and 9 of Article VII of the Agreement.

 . 2. The functions vested in the President by Section 210 of   are hereby delegated to the Secretary of the  .

 . 3. The Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by  . This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges, exemptions, or immunities that such organization may have acquired or may acquire by international agreements or by congressional action.

 . 4.   is hereby designated as a public international organization entitled to the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by  . This designation is not intended to abridge in any respect the privileges, exemptions, or immunities that such organization may have acquired or may acquire by international agreements or by congressional action.

 . 5. Executive  .  , as amended, is further amended by deleting "and  " and adding ",  , and  ," in Sections 2(c), 3(d), and 7, respectively.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 4:35 p.m.,  ]
