Executive Order 12320—Historically Black Colleges and Universities
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, in order to advance the development of human potential, to strengthen the capacity of historically Black colleges and universities to provide quality education, and to overcome the effects of discriminatory treatment, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Secretary of   shall supervise   the development of a   program designed to achieve a significant increase in the participation by historically Black colleges and universities in   sponsored programs. This program shall seek to identify, reduce, and eliminate barriers which may have unfairly resulted in reduced participation in, and reduced benefits from,   sponsored programs. This program will also seek to involve private sector institutions in strengthening historically Black colleges.

 . 2.  ,   and those   agencies designated by the Secretary of   shall establish annual plans to increase the ability of historically Black colleges and universities to participate in   sponsored programs. These plans shall consist of measurable objectives of proposed agency actions to fulfill this   and shall be submitted at such time and in such form as the Secretary of   shall designate. In consultation with participating Executive agencies, the Secretary of   shall undertake a review of these plans and develop an integrated   Federal Plan for Assistance to Historically Black Colleges for consideration by the President and   (composed of the Vice President,  , Agriculture, Labor,  , and  , the Attorney General, the Counselor to the President, and   Chief of Staff).

 . 3. Each participating agency shall submit to the Secretary of   a   progress report of its achievement of its plan and at   an Annual Performance Report which shall specify agency performance of its measurable objectives.

 . 4. Prior to the development of  , the Secretary of   shall supervise a special review by every Executive agency of its programs to determine the extent to which historically Black colleges and universities are given an equal opportunity to participate in   sponsored programs. This review will examine unintended regulatory barriers, determine the adequacy of the announcement of programmatic opportunities of interest to these colleges, and identify ways of eliminating inequities and disadvantages.

 . 5. The Secretary of   shall ensure that each president of a historically Black college or university is given the opportunity to comment on the proposed   Federal Plan prior to its consideration by the President, the Vice President, and  .

 . 6. The Secretary of  , to the extent permitted by law, shall stimulate initiatives by private sector businesses and institutions to strengthen historically Black colleges and universities, including efforts to further improve their management, financial structure, and research.

 . 7. The Secretary of   shall submit to the President, the Vice President, and   an Annual Federal Performance Report on Executive Agency Actions to Assist Historically Black Colleges. The report shall include the performance appraisals of agency actions during   to assist historically Black colleges and universities. The report will also include any appropriate recommendations for improving the   response directed by this  .

 . 8. The special review provided for in Section 4 shall take place not later than November 1,  . Participating Executive agencies shall submit their   plans to the Secretary of   not  . The first Annual Federal Plan for Assistance to Historically Black Colleges developed by the Secretary of   shall be ready for consideration by the President, the Vice President, and   not  .

 . 9. Executive  .   of  , is revoked.

 

 ,

 .

[Filed with  , 1:25 p.m.,  ]
