Section C. Quarterly Maintenance Allowance.

1.The quarterly maintenance allowance prescribed in section A hereof shall be payable on the first day of each quarter to:

(a) Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance under subsections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 of section A, or subsection B5 hereof, or under Executive Order No. 9226 of August 19, 1942, as amended by Executive Order No. 9283 of December 18, 1942, commencing with the first day of the quarter following the first anniversary of the date on which they were last entitled to such clothing allowance.

(b) Enlisted men on active duty on June 30, 1943, who were not granted a clothing outfit or cash clothing allowance during the fiscal year 1943, commencing July 1, 1943.

(c) Enlisted men of the Navy and Coast Guard reenlisting within three months from date of last discharge, enlisted men of the Reserve components transferred to the regular Service, and enlisted men of the Regular and Reserve components on active duty transferred to the Reserve or to the Retired List and retained on active duty or recalled to active duty within three months of release therefrom, at the rate applicable prior to such discharge, transfer, retirement, or release, until entitled to a further clothing allowance.

2. Enlisted men undergoing training leading to a commission, and enlisted men holding temporary appointments to warrant or commissioned rank shall not be entitled to quarterly maintenance allowances. Enlisted men entitled to a clothing allowance on the first day of the quarter shall not be entitled to any quarterly maintenance allowance otherwise due them on that date.

3. The foregoing provisions of this order shall not be applicable to enlisted members of the Women's Reserve of the Naval Reserve and the Women's Reserve of the Coast Guard Reserve. Such members shall, however, be entitled to a special quarterly maintenance allowance for clothing in the amount of $12.50, payable on the first day of each quarter commencing with the first day of the quarter following the first anniversary of the date on which they first report for active duty.

This order shall become effective July 1, 1943.
