1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pay FEMA Personnel Act of 2026
.
2.
Continuing appropriations for FEMA personnel
(a)
In general
There is appropriated to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (in this Act referred to as the
Administrator
) for fiscal year 2026, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the period beginning February 14, 2026, during which interim or full-year appropriations for fiscal year 2026 are not in effect such sums as may be necessary—
(1)
to provide standard rates of pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, and other payments otherwise payable on a regular basis to employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency whose services are required to carry out the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
);
(2)
to provide standard rates of pay, allowances, pay differentials, benefits, and other payments otherwise payable on a regular basis to employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency whose services are required to administer Federal assistance through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements not relating to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
); and
(3)
to support all other activities necessary for the administration of every grant program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(b)
Rule of construction
Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit the Administrator from awarding or disbursing grant program funding.
(c)
Charge to future appropriations
Expenditures made with amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever an Act in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is included is enacted into law.
3.
Termination
Amounts made available and authority granted under this Act shall be available until the earliest of the following dates:
(1)
The date of enactment into law of an appropriation (including a continuing appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts are made available under section 2(a).
(2)
The date of enactment into law of the applicable regular or continuing appropriations resolution or other Act without any appropriation for any purpose for which amounts are made available under section 2(a).
(3)
September 30, 2026.
4.
Retroactive effective date
This Act shall take effect as if enacted on February 13, 2026.
