1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Albuquerque Indian School Act of 2025
.
2.
Transfer of land into trust for the 19 Pueblos
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
19 Pueblos
The term
19 Pueblos
means the New Mexico Indian Pueblos of—
(A)
Acoma;
(B)
Cochiti;
(C)
Isleta;
(D)
Jemez;
(E)
Laguna;
(F)
Nambe;
(G)
Ohkay Owingeh (San Juan);
(H)
Picuris;
(I)
Pojoaque;
(J)
San Felipe;
(K)
San Ildefonso;
(L)
Sandia;
(M)
Santa Ana;
(N)
Santa Clara;
(O)
Santo Domingo;
(P)
Taos;
(Q)
Tesuque;
(R)
Zia; and
(S)
Zuni.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3)
Survey
Except as provided in subsection (e), the term
survey
means the survey plat entitled
Plat of Tracts 1 Thru 3 Lands of US Indian Service and Bureau of Indian Affairs
, prepared by Surv-Tek, Inc., and dated May 2023.
(b)
Land into trust
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act and the relocation of all Federal tenants—
(1)
the Administrator of General Services shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the Federal land described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (c) to the Secretary; and
(2)
on completion of the transfer of administrative jurisdiction under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall receive the transfer and hold in trust all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of that subsection for the benefit of the 19 Pueblos.
(c)
Federal land described
The Federal land referred to in this section is the 3 tracts of Federal land, the combined acreage of which is approximately 9.89 acres, that were historically part of the Albuquerque Indian School and, as of the date of enactment of this Act, are under the custody and accountability of the General Services Administration, more particularly described as follows:
(1)
Tract 1
The approximately 3.57 acres located in secs. 7 and 8 of T. 10 N., R. 3 E., of the New Mexico Principal Meridian in Albuquerque, New Mexico, on which stands a 76,682 square foot warehouse, as identified on the survey.
(2)
Tract 2
The approximately 5.78 acres located in secs. 7 and 8 of T. 10 N., R. 3 E., of the New Mexico Principal Meridian in Albuquerque, New Mexico, as identified on the survey.
(3)
Tract 3
The approximately .54 acres located in secs. 7 and 8 of T. 10 N., R. 3 E., of the New Mexico Principal Meridian in Albuquerque, New Mexico, as identified on the survey.
(d)
Easement on tract 1
The Federal land transferred into trust under subsection (b)(2) shall be subject to a right-of-way easement, as determined by the Administrator of General Services, on the Federal land described in subsection (c)(1) for purposes of retrieving or relocating Federal property from that Federal land to another location.
(e)
Survey
(1)
In general
The Secretary—
(A)
shall obtain a survey of the land to be transferred into trust under subsection (b)(2); and
(B)
may make minor corrections to the survey and legal description of the Federal land described in subsection (c) as the Secretary determines to be necessary to correct clerical, typographical, and surveying land title errors.
(2)
Availability
The survey obtained under paragraph (1) shall be recorded in the public records of the County Clerk Office of Bernalillo County, New Mexico.
(f)
Use of land
The Federal land transferred into trust under subsection (b)(2) shall be—
(1)
used for the educational, health, cultural, business, and economic development of the 19 Pueblos; and
(2)
subject to Federal laws applicable to Indian trust land in the State of New Mexico.
(g)
Limitations and conditions
The Federal land transferred into trust under subsection (b)(2) shall remain subject to any private or municipal encumbrance, right-of-way, restriction, easement of record, or utility service agreement in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
(h)
Gaming prohibition
Class I gaming, class II gaming, and class III gaming (as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (
25 U.S.C. 2703
)) are prohibited on the Federal land transferred into trust under subsection (b)(2).
