1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
GPS Resiliency Report Act
.
2.
Report on risks to Global Positioning System and associated positioning, navigation, and timing services
(a)
In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on risks to the Global Positioning System and associated positioning, navigation, and timing services.
(b)
Elements
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
A description of risks posed by a lack of access to the Global Positioning System and associated positioning, navigation, and timing services during a potential conflict in which the United States involved or in the case of an attack on a United States ally.
(2)
A description of risks to United States allies from a disruption of access to the Global Positioning System and associated positioning, navigation, and timing services provided by the United States.
(3)
An assessment of each of the following:
(A)
The capabilities of competitor countries, including the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, Iran, and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to degrade or deny United States access to the Global Positioning System and associated positioning, navigation, and timing services during a potential conflict with the United States or in the case of an attack on a United States ally.
(B)
Current Department of Defense efforts to develop or procure technology or systems to provide redundant global positioning and positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities, including space-based and terrestrial-based (including quantum sensing technology) efforts.
(C)
The ability of the Resilient Global Positioning System (R–GPS) program of the Space Force to achieve, not later than 10 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, full capacity to provide Global Positioning System resilience to existing United States satellites.
(4)
A framework for developing a full-scale terrestrial-based Global Positioning System redundancy system that could be operational not later than 15 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
(2)
United States ally
The term
United States ally
means—
(A)
a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(B)
a major non-NATO ally (as defined in section 644(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2403(q)
)); and
(C)
Taiwan.
