1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Presumptive Clear Legal Assessment and Review of Illnesses from Toxic exposure Yields Act of 2025
or the
Presumptive CLARITY Act of 2025
.
2.
Requiring public transparency in process of determinations relating to
presumptions of service connection regarding toxic exposure
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
1105.
Public transparency regarding presumptions of service connection
regarding toxic exposure
(a)
Publication required
The Secretary shall establish and maintain on a publicly accessible website of the Department a list of conditions and cohorts that the Department is considering for purposes of establishing or removing a presumption of service connection based on toxic exposure.
(b)
Contents
Publication under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An overview of the process for the establishment or removal described in subsection (a), including the steps and goals for time of completion for each step.
(2)
For each condition and cohort for which the Department is considering establishing or removing as described in subsection (a), the following:
(A)
The status of the condition or cohort in the process being carried out by the Department for such establishment or removal.
(B)
The actions taken by the Department regarding notice and opportunity for public comment on the establishment or removal, including instructions on how the public can submit comments and recommendations.
.
(b)
Commencement of publication
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that publication required by section 1105 of such title, as added by subsection (a), commences on or before the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 11 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1104 the following new item:
1105. Public transparency regarding
presumptions of service connection regarding toxic exposure.
.
