1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Building Threat Notification Act
.
2.
Guidance for buildings
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
law enforcement-related
means requiring a law enforcement response.
(b)
Guidance
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Protective Service shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, develop and implement guidance for emergency communication regarding law enforcement-related events for Federal tenants in buildings under the protection of the Federal Protective Service.
(2)
Contents
The guidance developed under subsection (b) shall include best practices and protocols relating to—
(A)
standard operating procedures to inform building tenants in a timely manner of violent threats in the building or within approximately 150 feet of the building perimeter, including all firearm events, other weapons threats, acts of or threats of potential, suspected, or confirmed terrorism, and the discovery of suspicious devices or materials; and
(B)
ensuring that tenants receive instructions for safety practices in response to an immediate threat or a heightened risk of a threat.
(c)
Security officials
(1)
In general
The designated official of the Facility Security Committee for each building under the protection of the Federal Protective Service shall be responsible for implementing the guidance at the respective building.
(2)
Designated official
Consistent with the Interagency Security Committee guidelines and applicable Federal law, the Director of the Federal Protective Service shall confirm that each department or agency with a building or office space under the protection of the Federal Protective Service has a designated official of the Facility Security Committee.
(d)
Assessment of law enforcement-Related crisis response
The Director of the Federal Protective Service shall—
(1)
ensure that all Federal tenants in buildings under the protection of the Federal Protective Service are able to adequately respond to a law enforcement-related crisis; and
(2)
conduct periodic testing to prepare for such event.
(e)
Report
(1)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Protective Service shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, electronically submit to Congress a report, not longer than 10 pages, on the best practices and protocols implemented under this Act.
(2)
Briefing
The Director of the Federal Protective Service shall provide to Congress a briefing on the report required under paragraph (1) and shall present any information relating to support needed to maintain the safety of buildings under the protection of the Federal Protective Service.
