1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sanctions and Accountability for Non-Compliance and Transparent Investigative Oversight for National Security in the West Bank Act
or the
SANCTIONS in the West Bank Act
.
2.
Codification of sanctions on persons undermining peace, security, and stability
in the West Bank
(a)
In general
United States sanctions provided for in Executive Order 14115 (
50 U.S.C. 1701
note; relating to imposing certain sanctions on persons undermining peace, security, and stability in the West Bank), as in effect on January 19, 2025, shall—
(1)
be in effect on and after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
remain in effect except as provided by subsection (c).
(b)
Reinstatement of sanctions
Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, sanctions imposed under Executive Order 14115 and revoked by Executive Order 14148 (90 Fed. Reg. 8237) shall be reinstated.
(c)
Termination
(1)
In general
The President may terminate the application of sanctions described in subsection (a) that are imposed with respect to a person in connection with activity conducted by the person if the President submits to the appropriate congressional committee a notice that—
(A)
the person is not engaging in the activity that was the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
(B)
the President has received reliable assurances that the person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to sanctions described in subsection (a) in the future.
(2)
Timing for notice
The President shall submit the notice required by paragraph (1) with respect to the termination of the application of sanctions with respect to a person—
(A)
except as provided by subparagraph (B), not less than 15 days before terminating the application of such sanctions; and
(B)
in the event of exigent circumstances, as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 3 business days after terminating the application of such sanctions.
(d)
Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
