1.
Authorization of use of Capitol Grounds for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis
to United States Capitol
(a)
Authorization of use of Capitol Grounds
The Capitol Grounds may be used for official Congressional events surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on Thursday, September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate.
(b)
Responsibilities of Capitol Police Board
The Capitol Police Board shall take such actions as may be necessary to enforce the restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds in connection with the events authorized by this section.
(c)
Event preparations
The Architect of the Capitol is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment as may be required for the events authorized by this section.
2.
Authorization of use of rotunda for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to United
States Capitol
The rotunda of the United States Capitol is authorized to be used for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of such ceremonies and activities shall be carried out in accordance with such conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.
3.
Authorization of use of Emancipation Hall for events surrounding visit of His Holiness Pope Francis
to United States Capitol
Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center is authorized to be used for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of such ceremonies and activities shall be carried out in accordance with such conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.
4.
Arrangements with other departments and agencies
In carrying out their duties under this concurrent resolution, the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are each authorized to utilize appropriate equipment and services of appropriate personnel of departments and agencies of the Federal Government, under such arrangements as each may enter into with the heads of those departments and agencies in connection with the ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol.
