1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Millennium Compacts for Regional Economic Integration Act
or the
M–CORE Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress makes the following findings:
(1)
Over the last 50 years, economies around the world have experienced significant and sustained growth that has been fueled by support to regional infrastructure and integrated trade agreements.
(2)
Unfortunately, many countries and their economies are isolated and will require greater support to benefit from regional integration of markets, infrastructure, and trade promotion-type policies.
(3)
By connecting isolated economies around the world, there exists the potential to increase investment opportunities and support market-based growth.
(4)
Developing countries, international organizations, and regional economic bodies have increasingly realized that key drivers to economic growth must involve greater cross-border collaboration and regional economic integration.
(5)
The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) plays a unique role in economic development throughout the world and pursues its mission of reducing poverty through economic growth by making time-bound grant investments through data selectivity, country ownership, and a focus on results.
(6)
The MCC’s compacts have increased access to reliable power, built highway corridors, and improved business climates, thereby promoting economic growth and cross-border engagement within MCC partner countries.
(7)
The MCC’s extensive analysis has concluded that a regional approach to poverty reduction, under the right circumstances, can present opportunities to take advantage of higher rates of return on investment and larger scale reductions in poverty.
(8)
This increased flexibility would promote economic growth and cross-border engagement between and among countries, creating larger and more compatible markets and enabling the United States private sector to compete more effectively and partner with the host-country private sectors.
(9)
The MCC is developing new partnerships in Asia, including implementation of current compacts in Indonesia and the Philippines, new compacts for Mongolia and the Philippines, and MCC’s first-ever compact engagement in South Asia.
(10)
In Central America, the MCC’s work in road infrastructure could potentially have had an even greater impact had the roads connected across borders.
(11)
In Africa, neighboring countries could collaborate on a regional power pool, connect land locked countries to transport, or address other policy, institutional, and logistical issues that hamper trade.
(12)
To make a coordinated regional investment across several countries work, the Board of Directors of the MCC would need to select a block of countries at the same time to coordinate project development and compact signings, which is unrealistic, or be able to enter into a concurrent compact with one of those countries, for which it currently lacks authority.
3.
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to expand the Millennium Challenge Corporation’s ability to develop compacts with countries, particularly in Africa, that promote regional economic integration and cross-border collaborations.
4.
Millennium challenge compact
(a)
In general
Section 609 of the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 7708
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (k), by striking the first sentence; and
(2)
by adding after subsection (k) the following new subsection:
(l)
Concurrent compacts
An eligible country and the United States that have entered into and have in effect a Compact under this section may enter into and have in effect at the same time not more than one additional Compact in accordance with the requirements of this title if—
(1)
one or both of the Compacts are or will be for purposes of regional economic integration, increased regional trade, or cross-border collaborations; and
(2)
the Board determines that the country is making considerable and demonstrable progress in implementing the terms of any existing Compacts and supplementary agreements thereto.
.
(b)
Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) apply with respect to Compacts entered into between the United States and an eligible country under the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (
22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.
) before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Conforming amendment
Section 613(b)(2)(A) of such Act (
22 U.S.C. 7712(b)(2)(A)
) is amended by striking
the
before
Compact
and inserting
any
.
