113 HCON 10 IH: Supporting the goals and ideals of No Name-Calling Week in bringing attention to name-calling of all kinds and providing schools with the tools and inspiration to launch an on-going dialogue about ways to eliminate name-calling and bullying in their communities.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-01-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 10
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 25, 2013
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen
(for
herself,
Mr. Kind
,
Ms. Speier
,
Mr. Sires
,
Mr. Moran
,
Ms. Norton
,
Mr. Sablan
,
Mr. Polis
,
Mr. Cicilline
,
Mr. Pocan
,
Ms. Sinema
,
Ms. Schakowsky
, and
Mr. Honda
) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals and ideals of No
Name-Calling Week in bringing attention to name-calling of all kinds and
providing schools with the tools and inspiration to launch an on-going dialogue
about ways to eliminate name-calling and bullying in their
communities.
Whereas No Name-Calling Week is an annual week of
educational activities aimed at ending name-calling of all kinds and providing
schools with the tools and inspiration to launch an on-going dialogue about
ways to eliminate name-calling and bullying in their communities;
Whereas 60 organizations, including the National School
Boards Association, National Association of Elementary School Principals,
National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Education
Association, National Association of School Psychologists, Gay, Lesbian and
Straight Education Network, and Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, have come
together as No Name-Calling Week partner organizations;
Whereas thousands of students have participated in No
Name-Calling Week since its inception in 2004;
Whereas the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network
has conducted and released national studies analyzing the pervasive harassment
and victimization faced by elementary students and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender (LGBT) secondary students;
Whereas 26 percent of elementary students reported hearing
others say hurtful things based on another student’s race or ethnic
background;
Whereas 30 percent of elementary students reported being
bullied or called names at some point while in school;
Whereas over 70 percent of LGBT middle and high school
students frequently hear homophobic remarks and over 80 percent of LGBT middle
and high school students were verbally harassed in the past year because of
their sexual orientation; and
Whereas 55 percent of LGBT middle and high school students
experienced harassment via electronic means in the past year: Now, therefore,
be it
That Congress—
(1)
supports the goals and ideals of No
Name-Calling Week; and
(2)
encourages the
people of the United States to observe No Name-Calling Week with appropriate
ceremonies, programs, and activities.
