113 HCON 8 IH: Expressing the opposition of Congress to Federal efforts to establish a carbon tax on fuels for electricity and transportation.
U.S. House of Representatives
2013-01-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
113th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 8
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 15, 2013
Mr. McKinley
(for
himself,
Mr. Pompeo
,
Mr. Upton
,
Mr. Barton
,
Mr. Whitfield
,
Mr. Shimkus
,
Mr. Rahall
,
Mr. Rogers of Kentucky
,
Mr. Terry
,
Mrs. Blackburn
,
Mr. Johnson of Ohio
, and
Mrs. Capito
) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and
Means
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the opposition of Congress to
Federal efforts to establish a carbon tax on fuels for electricity and
transportation.
Whereas affordable and abundant electricity from coal and
natural gas is a strategic resource that is essential to modern life, America’s
economic competitiveness, and, ultimately, independence from foreign and
volatile sources of energy;
Whereas the application of a carbon tax to gasoline and
other transportation fuels will have a dramatic, immediate impact on
transportation costs, with the greatest impact being felt by low-income
Americans and their families;
Whereas a carbon tax is designed to result in substantial,
immediate increases in the price of electricity, making electricity less
affordable for millions of Americans;
Whereas a carbon tax applicable to coal and natural gas
electricity generation would be punitive and harmful to the American people by
artificially raising electricity costs;
Whereas, with continuing high national joblessness and an
unemployment rate exceeding 7.8 percent every month since February 2009, a
carbon tax will drive the unemployment rate even higher;
Whereas a carbon tax is likely to have an uneven effect,
hitting different regions of the country and segments of the economy much more
severely than others;
Whereas a carbon tax is regressive and will
impose the greatest burden on low-income individuals and families who already
spend the largest share of their income on energy and are least able to afford
a carbon tax;
Whereas economic modeling of Australia’s recently
implemented carbon tax shows that it increases energy costs, and reduces growth
in GDP, productivity, and household incomes;
Whereas a carbon tax in the United States will have no
impact on China, India, and other major sources of carbon emissions throughout
the world, except to increase their competitiveness with the United States;
and
Whereas a carbon tax will put United States exporters at a
competitive disadvantage by increasing domestic manufacturing production costs:
Now, therefore, be it
That Congress opposes Federal efforts
to establish a carbon tax on fuels for electricity and transportation.
