PART I—TRADE,  , AND TARIFF LAWS

Section 1-101. Accession of State Trading Regimes to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The functions vested in the President by sections 1106(a), (b) and (d) of  , regarding the accession of state trading regimes to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, are delegated to  .

 . 1-201.  . The functions vested in the President by section 1125 of  , regarding the updated report on barriers to wine trade, are delegated to  .

 . 1-301. Steel Imports. The functions vested in the President by section 805(d)(1) and (2) of   of   (19 U.S.C.  , note), as amended by section 1322 of  , are delegated to  .

 . 1-401. Telecommunications Trade. The functions vested in the President by sections   and 1376(e) of  , regarding certain telecommunications negotiations as may be ordered by the President and reports thereon to  , are delegated to  .

 . 1-501. Uniform Fee on Imports. The functions vested in the President by section 1428 of  , regarding negotiations to obtain authority under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to impose a small uniform fee on imports, are delegated to  .

PART II—EXPORT ENHANCEMENT

Sec. 2-101. Countertrade and  .

(1) Establishment. There is established  , which shall be composed of  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Agriculture, and  , the Attorney General,  , the Director of  ,   and the Director of  , or their respective representatives. The Secretary of   or his representative shall be the Chairman of the interagency group.

(2) Functions. The interagency group shall carry out the functions and duties set out in section 2205(a) of  .

 . 2-201. Sanctions Against   and  .

(1) Procurement Sanctions. Pursuant to section 2443 of   and subject to the exceptions referred to in paragraph (3), departments, agencies and instrumentalities of   shall not for the   period beginning on the date this   takes effect, contract with or procure products and services from  ,  ,   or  . The head of each department, agency or instrumentality is hereby directed and authorized to implement this procurement sanction in accordance with paragraph (3).

(2) Import Sanctions. Pursuant to section 2443 of   and subject to the exceptions referred to in paragraph (3), importation into  , its territories and possessions, of products produced by   or   is prohibited for   from the effective date of this  . The Secretary of the   is hereby directed and authorized to implement this import sanction in accordance with paragraph (3).

(3) Exceptions. Authority to make determinations as to exceptions to sanctions and to implement exceptions by regulation or otherwise is delegated (i) to the Secretary of   with respect to determinations under section 2443(c)(1) regarding the procurement of defense articles or defense services, (ii) to the Secretary of the   with respect to exceptions under section 2443(c)(2) regarding importation prohibited by section 2443(a)(2), and (iii) to the head of  , agency or instrumentality with respect to exceptions under section 2443(c)(2) affecting their respective contracting and procurement. All regulations implementing these exceptions provisions shall be consistent with any guidelines provided by  .

(4) Annual Report. The   report required by section 2445, concerning estimated increases in defense expenditures arising from illegal technology transfers, shall be prepared by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretaries of State and  , for submission to the   by the President.

PART III—FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES AMENDMENTS; INVESTMENT; AND TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 3-101. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Amendments. The functions conferred upon the President by section 5003(d)(1) ("International Agreement") of   are delegated to the Secretary of  , who in performing such functions shall act in consultation with the Attorney General,  , the Chairman of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of the   and the Director of  .

 . 3-201. Authority to Review Certain Mergers, Acquisitions, and Takeovers.

(1) Executive Order No.  , as amended, regarding   in   ( ") is further amended as follows:

(A) By adding new   8 as follows:

"Sec. 7. (1) Investigations. (a) The   is designated to receive notices and other information, to determine whether investigations should be undertaken, and to make investigations, pursuant to Section 721(a) of the Defense Production Act. (b) If the   determines that an investigation should be undertaken, such investigation shall commence   after receipt by   written notification of the proposed or pending merger, acquisition, or takeover. Such investigation shall be completed   after such determination. (c) If one or more   members differ with a   decision not to undertake an investigation, the Chairman shall submit a report of the   to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for his decision within   after receipt by   written notification of the proposed or pending merger, acquisition, or takeover.

(d) A unanimous decision by the   not to undertake an investigation with regard to a notice shall conclude action under this section on such notice. The Chairman shall advise the President of said decision.

"(2) Report to the President. Upon completion or termination of any investigation, the   shall report to the President and present a recommendation. Any such report shall include information relevant to subparagraphs (1) and (2) of Section 721(d) of the Defense Production Act. If the   is unable to reach a unanimous recommendation, the Chairman shall submit a report of the   to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for his decision.

" . 8. The Chairman of the  , in consultation with other members of the  , is hereby delegated the authority to issue regulations to implement Section 721 of the Defense Production Act."

(B) By deleting, from the second sentence in  ), the text beginning with "a representative" and ending with "by each of".

(C) By deleting, from the third sentence in  ), the phrase "representative of the".

(D) By deleting "and" at the end of subparagraph (3) of Section l(b), by substituting "; and" for the period at the end of subparagraph (4) of that Section, and by adding a new subparagraph (5) as follows: "(5) coordinate the views of   and discharge the responsibilities with respect to Section 721(a) and (e) of the Defense Production Act of  , as amended (50 U.S.C. App.   et seq.) ("Defense Production Act")."

(E) By adding the following sentence at  : "Information or documentary material filed pursuant to Section l(b)(5) or Section 7 of this   shall be treated in accordance with paragraph (b) of Section 721 of the Defense Production Act."

(F) By inserting in  ) the following additional   members: "(7) The Attorney General." and "(8) The Director of  ."

(G) The Interim Presidential Directive to the Secretary of the   of  , is hereby revoked, and any notices received or investigations pending as of the date this   takes effect shall be referred to the Chairman of the   for action consistent with this  .

 . 3-301. Reporting Requirement on Semiconductors,   and Superconducting Materials.

(1) The Secretary of  , in consultation with the Director of  , the Secretary of  , and the Director of  , shall prepare for the President to submit to the   with the Fiscal Year 1990 budget a report describing policies and budget proposals regarding:

(A) Federal research in semiconductors and semiconductor manufacturing technology, including a discussion of the respective roles of the various Federal departments and agencies in such research;

(B) Federal research and acquisition policies for fiber optics and optical-electronic technologies generally;

(C) Superconducting materials, including descriptions of research priorities, the scientific and technical barriers to commercialization which such research is designed to overcome, steps taken to ensure coordination among Federal agencies conducting research on superconducting materials, and steps taken to consult with private   industry to ensure that no unnecessary duplication of research exists and that all important scientific and technical barriers to the commercialization of superconducting materials will be addressed; and

(D) Federal research to assist   industry to develop and apply advanced manufacturing technologies for the production of durable and nondurable goods.

(2)  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and other Federal agencies deemed appropriate by the Secretary of   shall provide the information described in section 5141 of the Omnibus Trade Act concerning their   program and proposed   program to the Secretary of Commerce in sufficient time to permit preparation of the report.

(3)   shall provide to the Secretary of  , in sufficient time to permit preparation of the report, a summary of the   base program and   budget initiatives in each of the technical areas of the report.

(4)   ("OSTP") shall provide the Secretary of   with appropriate policy guidance in the technical areas of the report, including a summary of the criteria used to select research projects within an agency and among agencies, and the results of any studies conducted by  , or by others if   deems them to be relevant, which analyze the influence of the Federal research programs in the technical areas of the report.

 . 3-401. A  .

(1) Establishment. There is established   ("Commission"). The   shall consider major policy issues regarding   applications of recent research advances in superconductors including research and development priorities, the development of which will assure   leadership in the development and application of superconducting technologies.

(2) Membership. The membership of the   shall be not more than 24 individuals appointed by the President and include representatives of:

(A)  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   (including  ),  ,  ,  , and  ;

(B) Organizations whose membership is comprised of physicists, engineers, chemical scientists, or material scientists; and

( , universities, and national laboratories engaged in superconductivity research.

(3) Chairman. A representative of the private sector shall be designated by the President as Chairman of the  .

(4) Coordination.   shall be the coordinating body of the   and shall provide staff support for the  .

(5) Report. By  , the   shall submit a report to the President and the   with recommendations regarding methods of enhancing the research, development, and implementation of improved superconductor technologies in all major applications.

(6)  . In preparing the report required by subsection (5), the   shall consider addressing, but need not limit its review to:

(A) The state of   competitiveness in the development of improved superconductors;

(B) Methods to improve and coordinate the collection and dissemination of research data relating to superconductivity;

(C) Methods to improve and coordinate funding of research and development of improved superconductors;

(D) Methods to improve and coordinate the development of viable commercial and military applications of improved superconductors;

(E) Foreign government activities designed to promote research, development, and commercial application of improved superconductors;

(F) The need to provide increased Federal funding of research and development of improved superconductors;

(G) The impact on   national security if   must rely on foreign producers of superconductors;

(H) The benefit, if any, of granting private companies partial exemptions from   antitrust laws to allow them to coordinate research, development, and products containing improved superconductors;

(I) Options for providing income tax incentives for encouraging research, development, and production in   of products containing improved superconductors; and

(J) Methods to strengthen domestic patent and trademark laws to ensure that qualified superconductivity discoveries receive the fullest protection from infringement.

(7) Termination. The   shall disband within   of this Order. Thereafter   may review and update the report required by subsection (5) and make further recommendations as it deems appropriate.

PART IV—EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS

Sec. 4-101. Buy American Act of  .

(1) The functions vested in the President by section 7002 of  , regarding section 4(d) of Title III of the Buy American Act of  , as amended (41 U.S.C.  ), are delegated to the Secretary of  .

(2) The functions vested in the President by section 7003 of  , regarding the   report required by subsection (d) of section 305 of the Trade Agreements Act of  , as amended (19 U.S.C.  ), are delegated to  .

PART V—MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 5-101. Executive Oversight. Any actions or determinations taken or made by an officer or agency under   or this   shall be subject to the Executive oversight and direction of the President, and such actions or determinations shall be undertaken after appropriate inter-agency consultation as established by the President.

 . 5-102.  . Notwithstanding the provisions of section l(a)(2) of Executive Order No.   of  , the Director of   shall, with regard to regulations, rules, or agency statements of general applicability and future effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the procedure or practice requirements of an agency relative to the administration of the Export Administration Act, determine whether such regulations, rules, or agency statements are exempted from review under that  , pursuant to the provisions of section 8(b) thereof.

 . 5-201. Offsets. The negotiating functions under section 825(c) of the Defense Authorization Act, as may be ordered by the President, are hereby jointly delegated to the Secretary of   and   Representative. These functions shall be coordinated with the Secretary of   and conducted in consultation with  ,   and the  .

 . 5-202. Reporting Functions. The reporting functions of the President under section 825(d) of the Defense Authorization Act are delegated to the Director of  . The Director may further delegate to the heads of Executive departments and agencies responsibility for preparing particular sections of such reports. The heads of Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Director with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of these functions.

 . 5-301.  . The functions vested in the President by section 332(g) of the Tariff Act, regarding reports by   to the President, are delegated to  .

 . 5-401. Strengthening International Institutions. To the extent possible, actions undertaken under this   shall be conducted in a manner that strengthens international institutions that further   objectives, such as opening foreign markets and preventing the export of strategic goods and technologies to proscribed destinations.

 . 5-501. Effective Date. This   shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. on  .
