Section 1. Establishment of the Commission. (a) The President's   is hereby continued.

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than thirty-six members who shall be appointed from time to time by the President from among leaders in the private sector and the   branch of the Government. The President shall seek, so far as he deems practicable or advisable, to appoint up to seventy-five percent of the   membership from the ranks of Chief Executive Officers, Chief  ,  , Senior Partners or other individuals of comparable rank and stature from the private sector. Executive branch members, to the extent the President deems practicable or advisable, may include  ,  , and such other officials of comparable rank or position as deemed appropriate by the President.

The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  . The Chairman and members shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Members of the   shall serve   terms or until a successor is appointed.

(c) Members of the   who are full-time officers or employees of the Federal government shall receive no additional compensation by reason of this  , and members who are not such officers or employees shall serve without compensation, but each Commissioner shall be provided with travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.

 . 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The   shall administer   in which: (1) outstanding private sector executives, primarily those who have achieved senior level management positions, and also those exceptional managers who have unique qualifications and extremely high potential for policy-making positions, will be selected as   and assigned to positions in   or positions of comparable rank or stature, reporting, as appropriate, to  , Ambassadors,  , Under Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries or other high-ranking   officials for not  , with an extension of   in extraordinary circumstances; and (2) career Federal Executives who are members of  , or equivalent level, will be selected as   and assigned for   to positions in the private sector offering significant challenge, responsibility and regular and continuing contact with senior private sector officials.

(b) The   shall administer an Executive International Embassy Assignments Program in which exceptionally qualified private sector executives, primarily those who have achieved senior level management positions, and also exceptional managers who have unique qualifications and extremely high potential for policy-making positions, may be selected as   Executives and, as appropriate, assigned for  , with an extension of  , to   or other key positions in   Embassies reporting to Ambassadors or other high-ranking   officials.

(c) The   shall administer an education program which places the work experience of   in the broader context of both Federal government and private sector operations and, to the extent desirable and appropriate, may include exposure to international economic and foreign affairs.

(d) The   shall supervise and review the operation of the  , and may recommend to the President ways to promote and improve the  .

(e) The   shall ensure that the   operates in compliance with the merit principles set forth in   of Title 5 of the United States Code.

 . 3. Responsibilities of Executive Agencies. Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   with such assistance as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4. Administrative Provisions. (a)   shall provide the   with administrative services, staff support and travel expenses, as authorized by law.  ,   of the President, may provide services to the   on a reimbursable basis pursuant to interagency agreement, as may be authorized by the Economy Act of  , as amended, 31 U.S.C.   et seq.

(b) The Executive Director's responsibilities shall be to carry out the activities of the  .

(c) Executive Order No.   of   is revoked.
