Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's  . The   shall be composed of not more than twelve members who shall be appointed or designated by the President from among persons with special knowledge and familiarity with labor relations problems. The Director of   is hereby designated as Chairman of  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President and the Director of   on methods of improving the efficiency of arbitration of disputes arising under collective bargaining agreements, and on other matters, not involving particular labor disputes, of general significance to strengthening and increasing the effectiveness of bilateral dispute resolution mechanisms under such agreements.

(b) In performance of its advisory responsibilities, the   shall report to the President and the Director of   from time to time as requested.

(c) The   will undertake a review of regulations promulgated by   that affect established arbitration and mediation procedures, and offer their findings and recommendations in a report to the President and the Director of   within   of the  's establishment.

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information as it may require to carry out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) The Director of   shall provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff and other support as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the   established by this  , shall be performed by the Director of  , in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.
