Section 1. Establishment of  . There is established  .

 . 2. Membership of the Commission. (a) The   shall be composed of five members appointed by the President, as follows:

(1) three members appointed from among individuals from academic or other research institutions with expertise in areas of research relating to the Arctic, including the physical, biological, health, environmental, social, and behavioral sciences;

(2) one member appointed from among indigenous residents of the Arctic who are representative of the needs and interests of Arctic residents and who live in areas directly affected by Arctic resources development; and

(3) one member appointed from individuals familiar with the Arctic and representative of the needs and interests of private industry undertaking resource development in the Arctic.

The Director of   shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member of the  . The President shall designate a   from among the five voting members of the  .

(b) In making initial appointments to the  , the President shall designate one member to serve for a term of  , two members to serve for terms of  , and two members to serve for terms of   as provided by Section 103(c) of the Act. Upon the expiration of these initial terms of office, the term of office of each member of the   shall be  .

(c) Each of the   agencies represented on   established by Section 7 of this   may designate a representative to participate as an observer with the  . These representatives shall report to and advise the   on the activities of their agencies relating to Arctic research.

 . 3. Meetings of the Commission.

The   shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members. The     shall conduct at least one public meeting in    .

 . 4. Functions of the Commission.

(a) The Commission shall:

(1) develop and recommend an integrated national Arctic research policy;

(2) assist, in cooperation with   established by Section 7 of this  , in establishing a national Arctic research program plan to implement the Arctic research policy;

(3) facilitate cooperation between the Federal government and   and local governments with respect to Arctic research;

(4) review Federal research programs in the Arctic and suggest improvements in coordination among programs;

(5) recommend methods to improve logistical planning and support for Arctic research as may be appropriate;

(6) suggest methods for improving efficient sharing and dissemination of data and information on the Arctic among interested public and private institutions;

(7) offer other recommendations and advice to   as it may find appropriate; and

(8) cooperate with the Governor of  , and with agencies and organizations of that   which the Governor may designate, with respect to the formulation of Arctic research policy.

(b) Not  , the   shall:

(1) submit to the President and   a report describing the activities and accomplishments of the   during the immediately  ; and

(2) publish a statement of goals and objectives with respect to Arctic research to guide   in the performance of its duties.

 . 5. Responsibilities of Federal Agencies.

(a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, and in accordance with Section 105 of the Act, provide the   such information as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) The heads of Executive agencies shall, upon reimbursement to be agreed upon by the   and the agency head, permit the   to utilize their facilities and services to the extent that the facilities and services are needed for the establishment and development of an Arctic research policy. The   shall take every feasible step to avoid duplication of effort.

(c) All Federal agencies shall consult with the   before undertaking major Federal actions relating to Arctic research.

 . 6. Administration of the Commission. Members of the   who are otherwise employed for compensation shall serve without compensation for their work on the  , but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service. Members of the   who are not otherwise employed for compensation shall be compensated for   the member is engaged in actual performance of duties as a member, not to exceed   of service each calendar year, at a rate equal to the   equivalent of the rate for   of the General Schedule.

 . 7. Establishment of  . There is established   ( ").   shall serve as lead agency on   and shall be responsible for implementing Arctic research policy.

 . 8. Membership of  .

  shall be composed of representatives of the following Federal agencies or their designees:

(a)  ;

(b)  ;

(c)  ;

(d)  ;

(e) Department of the Interior;

(f)  ;

( ;

(h)  ;

(i)  ;

(j) Environmental Protection Agency;

(k)  ; and

(1) any other Executive agency that the Director of   shall deem appropriate. The Director of   or his designee shall serve as Chairperson of  .

 . 9. Functions of  . (a)   shall:

(1) survey Arctic research conducted by  , and local agencies, universities, and other public and private institutions to help determine priorities for future Arctic research, including natural resources and materials, physical and biological sciences, and social and behavioral sciences;

(2) work with the   to develop and establish an integrated national Arctic research policy that will guide Federal agencies in developing and implementing their research programs in the Arctic;

(3) consult with the   on:

(a) the development of the national Arctic research policy and the   plan implementing the policy;

(b) Arctic research programs of Federal agencies;

(c) recommendations of the   on future Arctic research; and

(d) guidelines for Federal agencies for awarding and administering Arctic research grants;

(4) develop a   plan to implement the national policy, as provided in section 109 of the Act;

(5) provide the necessary coordination, data, and assistance for the preparation of a single integrated, coherent, and multiagency budget request for Arctic research, as provided in section 110 of the Act;

(6) facilitate cooperation between the Federal government and   and local governments in Arctic research, and recommend the undertaking of neglected areas of research;

(7) coordinate and promote cooperative Arctic scientific research programs with other nations, subject to the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of  ;

(8) cooperate with the Governor of   in fulfilling its responsibilities under the Act; and

(9) promote Federal interagency coordination of all Arctic research activities, including:

(a) logistical planning and coordination; and

(b) the sharing of data and information associated with Arctic research, subject to section 552 of title 5, United States Code.

(b) Not  , and biennially thereafter,   shall submit to the   through the President a report concerning:

(1) its activities and accomplishments since its last report; and

(2) the activities of the  , detailing with particularity the recommendations of the   with respect to Federal activities in Arctic research.

 . 10. Public Participation.   will provide public notice of its meetings and an opportunity for the public to participate in the development and implementation of national Arctic research policy.  . 11.  .

Each agency represented on the   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the   with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for effective performance of its functions.
