Section 1. Executive  .   of   (46 FR 13969), is amended by adding the following new sections:

" . 9. (a) Pursuant to Section 210 of the Act there is established in   (22 U.S.C.  ).

"(b) The Board shall be composed of the designated number of representatives of the heads of the following agencies:

"(1)  , four members, at least three of whom must be career members of  ;

"(2)  , two members, one of whom must be a career member of  ;

"(3)  , two members, one of whom must be a career member of  ;

"(4)  , two members, one of whom must be a career member of  ;

"(5)  , two members, one of whom must be a career member of  ;

"(6)  , one member; "

"(7)  , one member;

"( , one member; and,

"(9) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, one member;

"(c) The membership of the   shall be selected from among officials who are knowledgeable in matters concerning the management of  . Except for the career members of   from  ,  ,  , and  , the members of the   shall be selected from among those who have the rank of Assistant Secretary or higher or a position of comparable responsibility.

"(d) The Secretary of   may from time to time request the heads of other agencies to designate representatives to participate in the functions of the   on a regular or occasional basis.

"(e) The Secretary of   shall designate a Chairman of the   from among those members who are career members of  .

"(f) The Secretary of   shall provide all necessary administrative services and facilities for the  .

" . 10. Pursuant to Section 202(a)(2)(B) and (a)(3)(B) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3922(a)(2)(B), (a)(3)(B)), it is hereby determined to be necessary, in order to enable   and   to carry out functions which require service abroad, for the respective  , in consultation with   and  , to be able to utilize   personnel system with respect to personnel of the following:

"(a) The Animal and   of  , not to exceed 125 positions, without the prior approval of the Director of  ;

"(b)    , and  , not to exceed 30 positions without the prior approval of the Director of  , and providing that assignments to such positions be administered consistent with policies of   established under Executive Order No.  .".

 . 2. In Section 8 of Executive Order No.  , the phrase "This Order" is amended to read "The first seven Sections of this Order".

 . 3. Executive  .   of  , as amended, is revoked.
