Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is established  . The   shall be composed of distinguished citizens appointed by the President, only one of whom may be a full-time officer or employee of  .

(b) The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members of the  .

 . 2. Functions. (a) The   shall advise the President and the Secretary of the   through   on   role in achieving higher levels of national productivity and economic growth.

(b) The   shall advise the President, the Secretary of the   and the President's Task Force on Regulatory Relief with respect to the potential impact on national productivity of Federal laws and regulations.

(c) The   shall advise and work closely with   (composed of the Secretaries of the  ,  ,  ,  , and  ,  , the Chairman of  , and the Director of  ), the Assistant to the President for Policy Development, and other governmental offices the President may deem appropriate.

(d) In the performance of its advisory duties, the   shall conduct a continuing review and assessment of national productivity and shall advise the Secretary of the   and  .

 . 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the   such information with respect to productivity as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . However, members of the   who are not full-time officers or employees of the   shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in government service (5 U.S.C.  ).

(c) Any administrative support or other expenses of the   shall be paid, to the extent permitted by law, from funds available for the expenses of  .

(d) The Executive Secretary of   shall serve as the Executive Secretary to  .

 . 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under  , as amended, except that of reporting   to the  , which are applicable to the advisory committee established by this  , shall be performed by the Secretary of the   in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

(b) The   shall terminate on  , unless sooner extended.
