Section 1. There is hereby established within  ,   of the President, the President's   ( "). Members of the   shall serve at the pleasure of the President and shall be appointed by the President from among trustworthy and distinguished citizens outside the Government who are qualified on the basis of achievement, experience, and independence. The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members. The   shall utilize full-time staff and consultants as authorized by the President. Such staff shall be headed by an Executive Director, appointed by the President.

 . 2. The Board shall assess the quality, quantity, and adequacy of intelligence collection, of analysis and estimates, of counterintelligence, and other intelligence activities. The   shall have the authority to continually review the performance of all agencies of the Government that are engaged in the collection, evaluation, or production of intelligence or the execution of intelligence policy. The Board shall further be authorized to assess the adequacy of management, personnel, and organization in the intelligence agencies.

 . 3. The   shall report directly to the President and advise him concerning the objectives, conduct, management, and coordination of the various activities of the agencies of the intelligence community. The   shall report periodically, but at least semi-annually, concerning findings and appraisals and shall make appropriate recommendations for actions to improve and enhance the performance of the intelligence efforts of  .

 . 4. The Board shall receive, consider, and take appropriate action with respect to matters, identified to the   by the Director of  ,  , or other Government agencies engaged in intelligence or related activities, in which the support of the   will further the effectiveness of the national intelligence effort. With respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, the   shall advise and make recommendations to the Director of  ,  , and other Government agencies engaged in intelligence and related activities, concerning ways to achieve increased effectiveness in meeting national intelligence needs.

 . 5. The   shall have access to the full extent permitted by applicable law to all information necessary to carry out its duties in the possession of any agency of the Government. Information made available to the   shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Each member of the  , each member of the  's staff, and each of the  's consultants shall execute an agreement never to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her service with the   except to the President or to such persons as the President may designate.

 . 6. Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but may receive transportation, expense, and per diem allowances as authorized by law. Staff and consultants to the   shall receive pay and allowances as authorized by the President.
