Section 1. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following transactions are prohibited effective  

(a) The making or approval of any loans by financial institutions in   to   or to entities owned or controlled by that Government. This prohibition shall enter into force on  . It shall not apply to (i) any loan or extension of credit for any educational, housing, or health facility which is available to all persons on a nondiscriminatory basis and which is located in a geographic area accessible to all population groups without any legal or administrative restriction; or (ii) any loan or extension of credit for which an agreement is entered into before the date of this  .

The Secretary of the   is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subsection. The initial rules and regulations shall be issued within  . The Secretary of the   may, in consultation with the Secretary of  , permit exceptions to this prohibition only if the Secretary of the   determines that the loan or extension of credit will improve the welfare or expand the economic opportunities of persons in   disadvantaged by the apartheid system, provided that no exception may be made for any apartheid enforcing entity.

(b) All exports of computers, computer software, or goods or technology intended to service computers to or for use by any of the following entities of  

(1) The military;

(2) The police;

(3) The prison system;

(4) The national security agencies;

(5) ARMSCOR and its subsidiaries or the weapons research activities of  ;

(6) The administering authorities for the black passbook and similar controls;

(7) Any apartheid enforcing agency;

(8) Any local or regional government or "homeland" entity which performs any function of any entity described in paragraphs (1) through (7).

The Secretary of   is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subsection and to implement a system of end use verification to ensure that any computers exported directly or indirectly to   will not be used by any entity set forth in this subsection.

(c)(1) Issuance of any license for the export to   of goods or technology which are to be used in a nuclear production or utilization facility, or which, in the judgment of the Secretary of  , are likely to be diverted for use in such a facility; any authorization to engage, directly or indirectly, in the production of any special nuclear material in  ; any license for the export to   of component parts or other items or substances especially relevant from the standpoint of export control because of their significance for nuclear explosive purposes; and any approval of retransfers to   of any goods, technology, special nuclear material, components, items, or substances described in this section. The Secretaries of State, Energy, Commerce, and   are hereby authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.

(2) Nothing in this section shall preclude assistance for   safeguards or   programs generally available to its member states, or for technical programs for the purpose of reducing proliferation risks, such as for reducing the use of highly enriched uranium and activities envisaged by section 223 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C.  ) or for exports which the Secretary of   determines are necessary for humanitarian reasons to protect the public health and safety.

(d) The import into   of any arms, ammunition, or military vehicles produced in   or of any manufacturing data for such articles. The Secretaries of State,  , and   are hereby authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.

 . 2. (a) The majority of   firms in   have voluntarily adhered to fair labor principles which have benefitted those in   who have been disadvantaged by the apartheid system. It is the policy of   to encourage strongly all   firms in   to follow this commendable example.

(b) Accordingly, no department or agency of   may intercede after  , with any foreign government regarding the export marketing activity in any country of any national of   employing more than 25 individuals in   who does not adhere to the principles stated in subsection (c) with respect to that national's operations in  . The Secretary of   shall promulgate regulations to further define the employers that will be subject to the requirements of this subsection and procedures to ensure that such nationals may register that they have adhered to the principles.

(c) The principles referred to in subsection (b) are as follows:

(1) Desegregating the races in each employment facility;

(2) Providing equal employment opportunity for all employees without regard to race or ethnic origin;

(3) Assuring that the pay system is applied to all employees without regard to race or ethnic origin;

(4) Establishing a minimum wage and salary structure based on the appropriate local minimum economic level which takes into account the needs of employees and their families;

(5) Increasing by appropriate means the number of persons in managerial, supervisory, administrative, clerical, and technical jobs who are disadvantaged by the apartheid system for the purpose of significantly increasing their representation in such jobs;

(6) Taking reasonable steps to improve the quality of employees' lives outside the work environment with respect to housing, transportation, schooling, recreation, and health;

(7) Implementing fair labor practices by recognizing the right of all employees, regardless of racial or other distinctions, to self-organization and to form, join, or assist labor organizations, freely and without penalty or reprisal, and recognizing the right to refrain from any such activity.

(d)   nationals referred to in subsection (b) are encouraged to take reasonable measures to extend the scope of their influence on activities outside the workplace, by measures such as supporting the right of all businesses, regardless of the racial character of their owners or employees, to locate in urban areas, by influencing other companies in   to follow the standards specified in subsection (c) and by supporting the freedom of mobility of all workers, regardless of race, to seek employment opportunities wherever they exist, and by making provision for adequate housing for families of employees within the proximity of the employee's place of work.

 . 3. The Secretary of   and the head of any other department or agency of   carrying out activities in   shall promptly take, to the extent permitted by law, the necessary steps to ensure that the labor practices described in section (2)(c) are applied to their   employees.

 . 4. The Secretary of   and the head of any other department or agency of   carrying out activities in   shall, to the maximum extent practicable and to the extent permitted by law, in procuring goods or services in  , make affirmative efforts to assist business enterprises having more than 50 percent beneficial ownership by persons in   disadvantaged by the apartheid system.

 . 5. (a) The Secretary of   and   are directed to consult with other parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade with a view toward adopting a prohibition on the import of  .

(b) The Secretary of the   is directed to conduct a study to be completed within   regarding the feasibility of minting and issuing gold coins with a view toward expeditiously seeking legislative authority to accomplish the goal of issuing such coins.

 . 6. In carrying out their respective functions and responsibilities under this  , the Secretary of the   and the Secretary of   shall consult with the Secretary of  . Each such Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with other government agencies and private persons.

 . 7. The Secretary of   shall establish, pursuant to appropriate legal authority, an   to provide recommendations on measures to encourage peaceful change in  . The   shall provide its initial report within  .

 . 8. The Secretary of   is directed to take the steps necessary pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act and related legislation to (a) increase the amount of internal scholarships provided to   disadvantaged by the apartheid system up to $8 million from funds made available for  , and (b) increase the amount allocated for   from funds made available for   in   up to $1.5 million. At least one-third of the latter amount shall be used for legal assistance for  . Appropriate increases in the amounts made available for these purposes will be considered in  .

 . 9. This   is intended to express and implement the foreign policy of  . It is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against  , its agencies, its officers, or any person.
