Whereas the Department of Justice has missed document production deadlines, produced duplicative pages of information, and has redacted pages to the point where they contain little probative information.
Whereas additional documents provided to Members of Congress in July 2018 by whistleblowers demonstrate under Mr. Rosenstein’s leadership the Department of Justice and FBI have knowingly and intentionally withheld documents within the scope of the joint congressional investigation to avoid oversight.
On June 27, 2018, witness testimony provided in a transcribed interview with members of the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform revealed the Department of Justice and Special Counsel Mueller had instructed material fact witnesses to refuse to provide testimony within the jurisdiction of the committees’ joint investigation; even though much of this information is not law enforcement sensitive and available through open source media reporting.
On July 13, 2018, witness testimony provided in a transcribed interview with members of the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform revealed the Department of Justice had failed to notify material fact witnesses of repeated congressional requests for their testimony.
Wherefore, Rod Rosenstein, by such conduct, warrants impeachment and trial, and removal from office.
Article III
Upon in camera review of documents at the Department of Justice, it was revealed the Department, under the supervision of Mr. Rosenstein, attempted to conceal certain facts as documents provided to Congress were heavily and unnecessarily redacted. Most of the redacted documents containing material investigative information did not contain law-enforcement-sensitive information, the Department’s stated basis for redactions.
The Department of Justice, under the supervision of Mr. Rosenstein, unnecessarily redacted the price of FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe’s $70,000 conference table because it was potentially embarrassing information.
The Department of Justice, under the supervision of Mr. Rosenstein, redacted FBI Agent Peter Strzok’s personal relationship with FISC Judge Rudolph Contreras.
The Department of Justice, under the supervision of Mr. Rosenstein, redacted the names of high-ranking Obama administration officials, such as former White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough.
The Department of Justice, under the supervision of Mr. Rosenstein, redacted the names of high-ranking FBI officials, such as former Deputy Director Andrew McCabe.
The Department of Justice acknowledged the unnecessary redactions and agreed that some information should not have been redacted in an April 16, 2018, letter to Representatives Meadows and Jordan.
Wherefore, Rod Rosenstein, by such conduct, warrants impeachment and trial, and removal from office.
Article IV
On May 17, 2017, Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein appointed Robert S. Mueller III as the Special Counsel to investigate possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. In May 2017, Mr. Rosenstein authored the initial memo articulating the scope of the Special Counsel investigation’s jurisdiction.
On August 2, 2017, Mr. Rosenstein drafted a memo articulating the scope of the Special Counsel investigation which began by noting
the following allegations were within the scope of the investigation at the time of your appointment and are within the scope of the order
, with nearly everything following the mention of those initial allegations redacted.
Mr. Rosenstein’s memo is a classified document and almost completely redacted, raising concerns the appointment of Robert S. Mueller III as Special Counsel began outside the scope of regulations for Special Counsel investigations by originating on a counterintelligence, rather than criminal, basis.
Mr. Rosenstein’s memo also raises concerns given Special Counsel investigations are not warranted by the existence of mere allegations, and require there be facts evident warranting a
criminal investigation of a person or matter
.
Mr. Rosenstein’s memo raises fundamental concerns related to the Government’s basis for alleging
collusion
between the Trump campaign and Russia, and whether these allegations resulted in potential crimes warranting investigation.
Despite the significant public interest in the matter and the constitutional authority of Congress to conduct oversight of the Department of Justice, Mr. Rosenstein has repeatedly failed to provide a less-redacted version of this scope memo, even in a classified setting.
Wherefore, Rod Rosenstein, by such conduct, warrants impeachment and trial, and removal from office.
Article V
In his capacity as Deputy Attorney General of the United States, Mr. Rosenstein oversaw the potentially improper authorization of FISA searches and electronic surveillance of members of the Trump campaign.
As evidenced by the July 21, 2018, release of the Carter Page FISA application, under Mr. Rosenstein’s supervision, the
dossier
compiled by Christopher Steele on behalf of the Democratic National Committee and the Hillary Clinton campaign formed a material part of the FISA application.
Under Mr. Rosenstein’s supervision, the Department of Justice and FBI intentionally obfuscated the fact the dossier was originally a political opposition research document before the FISC.
Under Mr. Rosenstein’s supervision, Christopher Steele’s political opposition research was neither vetted before it was used in October 2016 nor fully revealed to the FISC, given Director Comey’s June 2017 testimony the dossier was
salacious and unverified
.
As Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Rosenstein has failed in his responsibility for the proper authorization of searches under FISA, and his conduct related to the surveillance of American citizens working on the Trump campaign has permanently undermined both public and congressional confidence in significant counterintelligence program processes.
Under Mr. Rosenstein’s supervision, the public’s confidence in the integrity of the FISA process depends on the court’s ability to hold the Government to the highest-standard-particularly as it relates to surveillance of American citizens.
Given Mr. Rosenstein’s oversight of the FISA process is a central issue in the current congressional investigation into certain decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice and FBI in 2016 and 2017, he has actual and potential conflicts of interest requiring the appointment of a second Special Counsel.
Wherefore, Rod Rosenstein, by such conduct, warrants impeachment and trial, and removal from office.
