1.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Atrazine, a weed-killing pesticide, is the
most widely used herbicide in the United States. The United States annually
uses 65,000,000 to 80,000,000 pounds of atrazine.
(2)
The toxicity of atrazine is well documented
and has shown to have adverse endocrine effects in amphibians, mammals, and
humans. There is evidence that atrazine exposure is associated with small birth
weight, abnormal development of the gut wall in infants, and spontaneous
abortions. In laboratory mammals, exposure is associated with abnormal
reproductive system development, impaired prostate gland formation, and
abnormal breast tissue development. In aquatic wildlife, exposure is associated
with abnormal reproductive system development, impaired reproduction, and
impaired immune system function.
(3)
The United States
Fish and Wildlife Service acknowledges that atrazine may have potential adverse
effects on fish, such as organ tissue disease, disruption to the endocrine and
olfactory systems, and reduced reproductive function.
(4)
The United States Geological Survey found
atrazine in approximately 85 percent of stream waters and 40 percent of all
ground water samples from agricultural areas tested. The United States
Geological Survey has found that atrazine has the highest frequency of
detection of all pesticides in agricultural streams, and the highest frequency
of detection of all herbicides in urban streams. According to data from the
Environmental Protection Agency Ecological Watershed Monitoring Program, the
surface water sampled in the Midwestern and Southern United States suffers from
pervasive atrazine contamination. Sampling of watersheds between 2004 and 2006
showed that all 40 watersheds tested had detectable levels of atrazine, and 25
watersheds had average concentrations above 1 ppb. While these average elevated
concentrations of atrazine are worrisome, high peak concentrations may also be
dangerous. Nine watersheds had at least one sample showing levels above 50 ppb,
and four watersheds had levels above 100 ppb.
(5)
According to data from the Environmental
Protection Agency Atrazine Monitoring Program, high levels of atrazine are also
evident in drinking water systems. More than 90 percent of the samples taken in
139 water systems had measurable levels of atrazine in both 2003 and 2004.
Three systems had annual averages exceeding 3 ppb.
(6)
In 1991, Germany
and Italy banned the use of atrazine. In 2003, European regulators announced a
ban on the pesticide throughout the European Union.
(7)
The Department of
Agriculture estimates that a ban on atrazine would result in crop losses of
only 1.19 percent and decrease corn acreage by only 2.3 percent. Since banning
atrazine nearly 20 years ago, both Italy and Germany have not experienced a
reduction of corn productivity or total acreage of land in production.
2.
Atrazine
prohibition
Notwithstanding
any other law, the use, production, sale, importation, or exportation of
atrazine or an atrazine product is prohibited.
3.
Enforcement
Any person who violates section 2 shall be
fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 2 years,
or both.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Atrazine
The term
atrazine
or
active ingredient atrazine
refers to the pesticide chemical
2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine.
(2)
Atrazine
product
The term
atrazine product
means any pesticide containing the active
ingredient atrazine, as identified on the Environmental Protection Agency
registered label, either alone or in a combination with other
pesticides.
