1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Truth in Trials
Act
.
2.
Providing an
affirmative defense for the medical use of marijuana; seizure of
property
(a)
In
general
Chapter 221 of title
18, United States Code, is amended by striking section 3436 and all that
follows through the end of the chapter and inserting the following:
3436.
Affirmative
defense for conduct regarding the medical use of marijuana; seizure of
property
(a)
Any person facing prosecution or a
proceeding for any marijuana-related offense under any Federal law shall have
the right to introduce evidence demonstrating that the marijuana-related
activities for which the person stands accused were performed in compliance
with State law regarding the medical use of marijuana, or that the property
which is subject to a proceeding was possessed in compliance with State law
regarding the medical use of marijuana.
(b)
(1)
It is an affirmative
defense to a prosecution or proceeding under any Federal law for
marijuana-related activities, which the proponent must establish by a
preponderance of the evidence, that those activities comply with State law
regarding the medical use of marijuana.
(2)
In a prosecution or a proceeding for
a marijuana-related offense under any Federal criminal law, should a finder of
fact determine, based on State law regarding the medical use of marijuana, that
a defendant’s marijuana-related activity was performed primarily, but not
exclusively, for medical purposes, the defendant may be found guilty of an
offense only corresponding to the amount of marijuana determined to be for
nonmedical purposes.
(c)
Any property
seized in connection with a prosecution or proceeding to which this section
applies, with respect to which a person successfully makes a defense under this
section, shall be returned to the owner not later than 10 days after the court
finds the defense is valid, minus such material necessarily destroyed for
testing purposes.
(d)
Any marijuana seized under any Federal law
shall be retained and not destroyed pending resolution of any forfeiture claim,
if not later than 30 days after seizure the owner of the property notifies the
Attorney General, or a duly authorized agent of the Attorney General, that a
person with an ownership interest in the property is asserting an affirmative
defense for the medical use of marijuana.
(e)
No plant may be
seized under any Federal law otherwise permitting such seizure if the plant is
being grown or stored pursuant to a recommendation by a physician or an order
of a State or municipal agency in accordance with State law regarding the
medical use of marijuana.
(f)
In this section,
the term State includes the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any other
territory or possession of the United
States.
.
(b)
Clerical
amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 221
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to
section 3436 and all that follows through the end of the table and inserting
the following new item:
3436. Affirmative defense for conduct
regarding the medical use of marijuana; seizure of
property.
.
