1.
Expansion of protections relating to mortgages and mortgage foreclosures for surviving spouses
(a)
Protection for Surviving Spouse
Section 303 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (
50 U.S.C. App. 533
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(e)
Protection for Surviving Spouse
During the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this subsection, with respect to a servicemember who dies while in military service and whose death is service-connected, this section shall apply to the surviving spouse of the servicemember if such spouse is the successor in interest to property covered under subsection (a).
.
(b)
Effective date
Subsection (e) of section 303 of such Act, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to a surviving spouse of a servicemember whose death is on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
2.
Requirements for lending institutions that are creditors for obligations and liabilities covered by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act
Section 207 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):
(d)
Lending institution requirements
(1)
Compliance officers
Each lending institution subject to the requirements of this section shall designate an employee of the institution as a compliance officer who is responsible for ensuring the institution’s compliance with this section and for distributing information to servicemembers whose obligations and liabilities are covered by this section.
(2)
Toll-free telephone number
During any fiscal year, a lending institution subject to the requirements of this section that had annual assets for the preceding fiscal year of $10,000,000,000 or more shall maintain a toll-free telephone number and shall make such telephone number available on the primary Internet website of the institution.
.
3.
Extension of period of protections for servicemembers against mortgage foreclosures
Section 710(d) of the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 (
Public Law 112–154
; 50 U.S.C. App. 533 note) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
December 31, 2014
and inserting
December 31, 2017
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3), by striking
January 1, 2015
and inserting
January 1, 2018
.
