1.
Short title
This Act may be cited to as the
Renewable Energy Jobs Act
.
2.
Alternative Energy Training and Employment Program
(a)
Pilot program
The Secretary of Labor shall carry out a pilot program to award competitive grants to States to
train individuals for careers in the renewable energy and energy
efficiency industries.
(b)
Grant awards
The Secretary shall award grants under the pilot program to the five States with the highest
installed alternative energy power capacity.
(c)
Application
(1)
In general
A State that desires a grant under the pilot program shall submit an application to the Secretary
at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the
Secretary may reasonably require.
(2)
Contents
A grant application under the pilot program shall include the following:
(A)
Evidence of the installed alternative energy power capacity for wind, solar, and geothermal
facilities in that State.
(B)
A description of how the funds will be used to establish and administer a program designed to
provide skills training or on-the-job training for a significant number of
individuals and ensure lasting and sustainable employment in the renewable
energy and energy efficiency industries.
(C)
A description of the State’s option to coordinate with its State and local workforce investment
boards and Energy Efficiency Industry Councils in carrying out a program
funded by a grant under this Act, including through partnerships of local
boards with renewable energy and energy efficiency employers and other
appropriate providers of training services.
(D)
A description of the skills training, on-the-job training, or both that may be offered to
individuals by grant recipients, and how this training will lead to an
industry-recognized certificate or similar credential.
(E)
A description of how the State plans to prioritize grants among grant recipients.
(F)
A description of how the grant may be used to support existing programs focused on renewable energy
job creation.
(d)
Grant amount
The Secretary shall ensure that grants are of sufficient size to enable States to carry out all
required activities.
(e)
Duration of grant
A grant under this section shall be for a period of 3 years.
(f)
Use of funds
A State receiving a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to—
(1)
reimburse a renewable energy and energy efficiency employer for the cost of providing on-the-job
training;
(2)
reimburse any of the following entities for the cost of providing skills training (or on-the-job
training if in partnership with an energy efficient employer)—
(A)
a labor organization;
(B)
a postsecondary educational institution; or
(C)
nonprofit organizations; and
(3)
conduct outreach to inform renewable energy and energy efficiency employers, labor organizations,
postsecondary educational institutions, non-profit organizations, and the
general public, including individuals in rural areas and Indian tribes,
of their eligibility or potential eligibility for participation in the
program.
(g)
Conditions
Under the pilot program, a grant to a State shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The State shall repay to the Secretary, on such date as shall be determined by the Secretary, any
amount received under the pilot program that is not used for the purposes
described in subsection (f).
(2)
The State shall submit to the Secretary, at such times and containing such information as the
Secretary shall require, reports on the use of grant funds.
(h)
Requirements of grant recipients
In order to receive a grant made by a State under the pilot program, an entity described in
subsection (f) shall—
(1)
submit an application to the State that includes such other information and assurances as the State
may require; and
(2)
agree to submit to the State, for each quarter, a report containing such information as the
Secretary may specify.
(i)
Limitation on administrative costs
(1)
Federal administration
Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under subsection (l), 2
percent shall be made available to the Secretary for administrative costs
associated with implementing and evaluating the pilot program under this
section and for preparing and submitting the report required under
subsection (j).
(2)
State administration
The Secretary shall determine the appropriate maximum amount of each grant awarded under this
section that may be used by the recipient for administrative and reporting
costs.
(j)
Report to Congress
The Secretary shall submit to Congress an annual report on the pilot program for each year of the
grant period. The report on the pilot program shall include a detailed
description of activities carried out under this section and an evaluation
of the program, and how many participants were employed by renewable
energy and energy efficiency employers within 6 months of completing the
training.
(k)
Appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2015
through 2017, for the purpose of carrying out the pilot program.
(l)
Definitions
For purposes of this section:
(1)
The term
Indian tribe
has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act
of 1994 (
25 U.S.C. 479a
).
(2)
The term
installed alternative energy power capacity
means the amount of wind, solar, and geothermal power generation, expressed in megawatts,
installed in a State.
(3)
The term
labor organization
has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the National Labor Relations Act.
(4)
The term
on-the-job training
means training by renewable energy and energy efficiency employers, a labor organization, a
postsecondary educational institution, or a nonprofit organization that is
provided to a paid participant while engaged in productive work that—
(A)
provides knowledge or skills essential to the full and adequate performance of the job;
(B)
provides reimbursement to the employer for the costs of providing the training and additional
supervision related to the training; and
(C)
is limited in duration as appropriate to the occupation for which the participant is being trained,
taking into account the content of the training, the prior work experience
of the participant, and the service strategy of the participant, as
appropriate.
(5)
The term
postsecondary educational institution
has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C.
2801).
(6)
The term
renewable energy and energy efficiency employer
means an entity that employs individuals in a trade or business in the renewable energy and energy
efficiency industries.
(7)
The term
renewable energy and energy efficiency industries
means any of the following industries:
(A)
The energy-efficient building, construction, or retrofits industry.
(B)
The renewable electric power industry, including the wind, solar, and geothermal energy industries.
(C)
The energy efficiency assessment industry that serves the residential, commercial, or industrial
sectors.
(8)
The term
skills training
means training by a labor organization, a postsecondary educational institution, or a nonprofit
organization that provides the knowledge and skills essential to specific
jobs in the renewable energy and energy efficiency industries.
(9)
The term
State
includes each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
Republic of Palau, and the territories and possessions of the United
States.
(10)
The term
workforce investment board
refers to a State or local workforce investment board established pursuant to the Workforce
Investment Act of 1998 (
20 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.
) that coordinates job
training programs for that State or local area under that Act.
