1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Restoring the Doctors of Our Country through Scholarships Veterans Affairs Act of 2014
or the
RDOCS–VA Act of 2014
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs are in dire need of more physicians, with
a particular need for doctors trained in primary care specialties.
(2)
The Health Professionals Educational Assistance Program established by
chapter 76
of title 38,
United States Code, provides educational assistance through scholarships
and loan forgiveness for a range of health professionals, however, it does
not specifically encourage a commitment to primary care by physicians
employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3)
The Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) model of education and training is a respected and
effective way of meeting the need of the United States for educated and
trained officers in the Armed Forces, and it can be applied to train and
educate physicians to provide primary care services.
(4)
Congress can build off of the Health Professionals Educational Assistance Program and the ROTC
model to solve the primary care shortage by providing full-tuition
scholarships to students committed to serving the United States as primary
care doctors at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
3.
Establishment of Restoring the Doctors of Our Country through Scholarships—Veterans Affairs program
(a)
In general
Chapter 76
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
subchapter:
VIII
Restoring the Doctors of Our Country through Scholarships—Veterans Affairs
7691.
Authority for program
As part of the Educational Assistance Program, the Secretary shall carry out a scholarship program
under this subchapter in order to provide for the increased availability
of physicians who provide primary health care services at medical
facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The program shall be
known as the Restoring the Doctors of Our Country through
Scholarships–Veterans Affairs program (in this subchapter referred to as
the
RDOCS–VA program
).
7692.
Scholarship program
(a)
In general
In carrying out the RDOCS–VA program, the Secretary shall award not less than 400 RDOCS–VA
scholarships to individuals who are selected by the Secretary and enter
into an agreement under subsection (b). Under such scholarships, the
Secretary shall pay—
(1)
to the participating undergraduate medical program all tuition and costs for the undergraduate
medical education of an RDOCS–VA scholar for a period of study not
exceeding 48 consecutive months; and
(2)
to the RDOCS–VA scholar a cost-of-living stipend, in an amount determined by the Secretary.
(b)
Agreement
To participate in the RDOCS–VA program, an RDOCS–VA scholar shall agree to—
(1)
be admitted into and maintain enrollment in a participating undergraduate medical program in the
State of residence of the scholar (or if such State of residence operates
no such program, in a participating undergraduate medical program in a
State within an associated region);
(2)
when enrolled in such program, maintain a minimum level of academic standing (to be determined by
the Secretary);
(3)
complete an accredited residency training program in a primary care specialty;
(4)
become licensed to practice medicine in the State of residence of the scholar;
(5)
receive and maintain board certification in a primary care specialty; and
(6)
complete a five-year post-graduate period of employment by the Department of Veterans Affairs
performing primary care services.
(c)
Priority in awarding scholarships
In selecting RDOCS–VA scholars and awarding scholarships under subsection (a), the Secretary shall
give preference to applicants who—
(1)
are enrolled in an accelerated track family-medicine program; or
(2)
elect to complete the period of employment described in subsection (b)(6) at a facility of the
Department that the Secretary designates as having an urgent need for
primary care physicians.
(d)
Ineligibility for Other Educational Assistance
An RDOCS–VA scholar shall not be eligible for other assistance under this chapter in connection
with the education received under the RDOCS–VA program.
7693.
Breach of agreement: liability
(a)
In general
An RDOCS–VA scholar (other than a scholar described in subsection (b)) who fails to accept payment,
or instructs the participating undergraduate medical program in which the
scholar is enrolled not to accept payment, in whole or in part, of a
scholarship under the agreement entered into under section 7692(b) of this
title shall be liable to the United States for liquidated damages in the
amount of $1,500. Such liability is in addition to any period of obligated
service or other obligation or liability under the agreement.
(b)
Liability
(1)
An RDOCS–VA scholar shall be liable to the United States for the amount which has been paid to or
on behalf of the scholar under the agreement entered into under section
7692(b) of this title if any of the following occurs:
(A)
The scholar fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing described in paragraph (2)
of such section 7692(b).
(B)
The scholar is dismissed from the participating undergraduate medical program for disciplinary
reasons.
(C)
The scholar voluntarily terminates the course of training in such program before the completion of
such program.
(D)
The scholar fails to become licensed to practice medicine in the State of residence of the scholar
during a period of time determined under regulations prescribed by the
Secretary.
(2)
Liability under this subsection is in lieu of any service obligation arising under the agreement of
the RDOCS–VA scholar.
(c)
Recovery
(1)
If an RDOCS–VA officer breaches the agreement by failing (for any reason) to complete the period of
obligated service of the officer, the United States shall be entitled to
recover from the officer an amount determined in accordance with the
formula described in section 7617(c)(1) of this title.
(2)
Any amount of damages which the United States is entitled to recover under this section shall be
paid to the United States within the one-year period beginning on the date
of the breach of the agreement.
7694.
Reports
The Secretary shall annually submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a report on the physician workforce of the
Department. Such report shall include—
(1)
the number of scholarships awarded under this subchapter during the year covered by the report;
(2)
data on the physician shortage of the Department, if any, disaggregated by the medical facility of
the Department; and
(3)
a gap analysis of the primary care practitioners needed in each medical facility of the Department,
and a five- and ten-year estimates of the funding needed to close the gap
through the RDOCS–VA program.
7695.
Definitions
In this subchapter:
(1)
The term
accelerated track family-medicine program
means an appropriately accredited, integrated course of study in which a candidate can complete
undergraduate medical education and graduate medical education in six
years.
(2)
The term
associated region
means—
(A)
the area encompassing the boundaries of Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho;
(B)
the area encompassing the boundaries of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, and Vermont;
(C)
the area encompassing the boundaries of Delaware and Pennsylvania; or
(D)
the area encompassing the boundaries of Maryland, the District of Columbia, and Virginia.
(3)
The term
board certification
means a certification to practice medicine in a specialty, by an appropriate medical specialty
board.
(4)
The term
participating undergraduate medical program
means an allopathic or osteopathic undergraduate medical program operated by a State.
(5)
The term
primary care specialty
means geriatrics, gerontology, family medicine, or general internal medicine.
(6)
The term
RDOCS–VA officer
means an RDOCS–VA program participant who has completed undergraduate medical training, but has
not yet fulfilled the remaining requirements of the scholarship agreement
entered into under section 7692(b) of this title.
(7)
The term
RDOCS–VA scholar
means an individual participating in an RDOCS–VA program pursuant to a scholarship agreement
entered into under section 7692(b) of this title, but has not yet
completed undergraduate medical education.
(8)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States and the District of Columbia.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating
to section 7684 the following new items:
Subchapter VIII—Restoring the Doctors of Our Country through Scholarships—Veterans Affairs
7691. Authority for program.
7692. Scholarship program.
7693. Breach of agreement: liability.
7694. Reports.
7695. Definitions.
.
