1.
Short title
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expanded Access to Real Learning for our Young Act
or the
EARLY Act
.
2.
Universal prekindergarten and early childhood education grant program
(a)
Program authorization
From amounts appropriated under subsection (g), the Secretary of Education is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to States to pay the Federal share of carrying out full-day prekindergarten programs.
(b)
State application
To receive a grant under this Act, a State shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Use of funds
A State that receives a grant under this Act shall use such grant funds to carry out a prekindergarten program that, at a minimum—
(1)
if practicable, is located at a public school in the State or, if not practicable, is carried out by a private or other community-provider;
(2)
permits each 4-year-old child in the State to be voluntarily enrolled by the child’s parent in the prekindergarten program, and which is made available at no cost to families who make a combined income of up to 400 percent of the poverty line;
(3)
is a full-day program that runs the length of the regular school year;
(4)
maintains a maximum class size of 20 children, with at least 1 prekindergarten teacher per classroom;
(5)
ensures that the ratio of children to prekindergarten teachers and teacher aides does not exceed 10 to 1;
(6)
is taught by teachers who are paid a salary comparable to teachers of kindergarten through grade 12 at public schools in the State;
(7)
requires the State in which the program is located to determinate a minimum level of parental engagement in their child’s program; and
(8)
meets any other criteria that the Secretary may require.
(d)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to States that will use the grants to carry out a prekindergarten program at a public school.
(e)
Federal share
The Federal share of a grant under this Act shall not exceed 75 percent of the costs of carrying out the activities described in subsection (c).
(f)
Supplement not supplant
Grant funds received under this Act shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal early childhood education funds in the State.
(g)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2015 through 2019.
(h)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
ESEA terms
The terms
elementary school
,
parent
,
poverty line
,
secondary school
, and
State
have the meanings given the terms in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 9101
).
(2)
Public school
The term
public school
means a public elementary school or public secondary school.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
