1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Compact-Impact Aid Act of
2013
.
2.
Findings and
purpose
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In approving the Compact of Free
Association it was not the intent of Congress to cause adverse consequences for
States, territories, and other jurisdictions of the United States.
(2)
Congress declared that if any adverse
consequences to States, territories, and other jurisdictions of the United
States resulted from implementation of the Compact of Free Association,
Congress would act sympathetically and expeditiously to redress those adverse
consequences.
(3)
The Government
Accountability Office has reported that migration from the Freely Associated
States has had a significant impact on Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, and the State of Hawaii and some areas of the continental
United States.
(4)
By placing demands on local governments for
health, educational, and other social services, migration under the Compact has
adversely affected the budgetary resources of several States and
territories.
(5)
Insufficient sums
have been appropriated to cover the costs incurred by Guam, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, and the State of Hawaii, resulting from increased
demands placed on health, educational, and other social services by individuals
from the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
and the Republic of Palau.
(b)
Purpose
It
is the purpose of this Act to address the unfunded mandate and adverse
financial consequences resulting from the Compact by meeting the obligations
set forth in the Compact.
3.
Ensuring
mandatory appropriations and health services reimbursement as part of
compact-impact aid
(a)
In
general
Section 104(e)(6) of the Compact of Free Association Act
of 1985 (
48 U.S.C. 1904(e)(6)
) is amended to read as follows:
(6)
Impact
costs
(A)
Authorization
and continuing appropriations
(i)
In
general
There is hereby
authorized and appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, for fiscal year
2013, $185,000,000 with subsequent increases as needed to address significant
increases in migration for grants to any local government of the United States
that demonstrates financial strain due to demands on public services by
significant immigration of individuals from the Federated States of Micronesia,
the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau, and to aid in
defraying costs incurred by their governments as a result of increased demands
placed on health, educational, social, or public safety services, or
infrastructure related to such services due to the residence of qualified
nonimmigrants.
(ii)
Awarding
The
grants under clause (i) shall be—
(I)
awarded and
administered by the Department of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs, or
any successor thereto, in accordance with regulations, policies and procedures
applicable to grants so awarded and administered; and
(II)
used only for
health, educational, social, or public safety services, or infrastructure
related to such services, specially affected by qualified nonimmigrants.
(iii)
Enumeration
For purposes of carrying out this
subparagraph, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide for periodic
enumerations of qualified nonimmigrants in the States and territories of the
United States. The enumerations—
(I)
shall be conducted
at such intervals as the Secretary of the Interior shall determine; and
(II)
shall be
supervised by the United States Bureau of the Census or any other organization
that the Secretary of the Interior selects.
(iv)
Allocation
The Secretary of the Interior shall
allocate to each of the governments of qualified affected areas, grants under
clause (i) for a fiscal year on the basis of the ratio of the number of
qualified immigrants (as most recently enumerated under clause (iii)) in the
respective jurisdiction to the total of such numbers for all the
jurisdictions.
(B)
Treatment of
certain health care impact costs
Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, for purposes of providing medical assistance for qualified
nonimmigrants under title XIX of the Social Security Act in the case of a State
or territory referred to in subparagraph (A)(i)—
(i)
such individuals
shall be treated in the same manner as an individual described in section
402(a)(2)(G) of
Public Law 104–193
, as amended;
(ii)
the Federal
medical assistance percentage shall be the same percentage as is applied to
medical assistance for services which are received through an Indian Health
Service Facility; and
(iii)
payments under
such title for medical assistance for such individuals shall not be taken into
account in applying any limitations under section 1108 of the Social Security
Act.
(C)
Qualified
nonimmigrant defined
In this paragraph, term
qualified
nonimmigrant
means a person admitted to the United States pursuant
to—
(i)
section 141 of the
Compact of Free Association set forth in title II; or
(ii)
section 141 of
the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Government of
Palau.
.
(b)
Effective
date
Section 104(e)(6)(B) of the Compact of Free Association Act
of 1985, as amended by subsection (a), shall apply to medical assistance for
items and services furnished during or after fiscal year 2013.
