1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Incentivizing Foreign Investment to Upgrade America’s Infrastructure Act of 2014
.
2.
Exemption of foreign pensions from dispositions of investment in United States real property
(a)
In general
Section 897
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
(k)
Special rule for foreign pensions
(1)
In general
Subsection (a) shall not apply in the case of a qualified foreign pension fund.
(2)
Qualified foreign pension fund
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified foreign pension fund
means any trust, corporation, or other organization or arrangement—
(A)
which is created or organized outside of the United States,
(B)
which is established to provide retirement or pension benefits to participants or beneficiaries
that are current or former employees (or persons designated by such
employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services
rendered,
(C)
which does not have a single participant or beneficiary with a right to more than 5 percent of its
assets,
(D)
which is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in the country in which it
is established or operates, and
(E)
with respect to which, under the laws of the country in which it is established or operates—
(i)
contributions to such trust, corporation, organization, or arrangement which would otherwise be
subject to tax under such laws are deductible or excluded from the gross
income of such entity or taxed at a reduced rate, or
(ii)
taxation of any investment income of such trust, corporation, organization, or arrangement is
deferred or such income is taxed at a reduced rate.
(3)
Regulations
The Secretary may prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this
subsection.
.
(b)
Withholding
Paragraph (3) of section 1445(f) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following:
Such term shall not include a qualified foreign pension fund (as defined in section 897(k)).
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to dispositions of United States real property
interests more than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
