1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Electric Vehicle Charging Offers Modern Utility Terminals for Employees Act
or the
EV–COMUTE Act
.
2.
Operation of battery recharging stations in parking areas used by Federal employees
(a)
Authorization
(1)
In general
The head of any office of the Federal Government which owns or operates a parking area for the use
of its employees (either directly or indirectly through a contractor) may
install, construct, operate, and maintain on a reimbursable basis a
battery recharging station in such area for the use of privately owned
vehicles of employees of the office and others who are authorized to park
in such area.
(2)
Use of vendors
The head of an office may carry out paragraph (1) through a contract with a vendor, under such
terms and conditions (including terms relating to the allocation between
the office and the vendor of the costs of carrying out the contract) as
the head of the office and the vendor may agree to.
(b)
Imposition of Fees To Cover Costs
(1)
Fees
The head of an office of the Federal Government which operates and maintains a battery recharging
station under this Act shall charge fees to the individuals who use the
station in such amount as is necessary to ensure that office recovers all
of the costs it incurs in installing, constructing, operating, and
maintaining the station.
(2)
Deposit and availability of fees
Any fees collected by the head of an office under this subsection shall be—
(A)
deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations account for salaries and expenses of
the office; and
(B)
available for obligation without further appropriation during—
(i)
the fiscal year collected; and
(ii)
the fiscal year following the fiscal year collected.
(c)
No Effect on Existing Programs for House and Senate
Nothing in this Act may be construed to affect the installation, construction, operation, or
maintenance of battery recharging stations by the Architect of the
Capitol—
(1)
under
Public Law 112–170
(
2 U.S.C. 2171
), relating to employees of the House of Representatives and
individuals authorized to park in any parking area under the jurisdiction
of the House of Representatives on the Capitol Grounds; or
(2)
under
Public Law 112–167
(
2 U.S.C. 2170
), relating to employees of the Senate and individuals
authorized to park in any parking area under the jurisdiction of the
Senate on the Capitol Grounds.
3.
Effective date
This Act shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2015 and each succeeding fiscal year.
