1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Efficient Use of Government Spectrum
Act of 2013
.
2.
Reallocation and
auction of 1755–1780 MHz band
(a)
In
general
Notwithstanding
paragraph (15)(A) of section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 309(j)), not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of the
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (
Public Law 112–96
), the
Commission shall—
(1)
reallocate the electromagnetic spectrum
described in subsection (d) for commercial use; and
(2)
as part of the system of competitive
bidding required by section 6401(b)(1)(B) of such Act (47 U.S.C.
1451(b)(1)(B)), grant new initial licenses, subject to flexible-use service
rules, for the use of such spectrum, paired with the spectrum between the
frequencies from 2155 megahertz to 2180 megahertz, inclusive.
(b)
Auction
proceeds
For purposes of
depositing the proceeds from the competitive bidding described in subsection
(a)(2) that are attributable to the electromagnetic spectrum described in
subsection (d), such spectrum shall be treated as spectrum that is required to
be auctioned by section 6401(b)(1)(B) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job
Creation Act of 2012 (
47 U.S.C. 1451(b)(1)(B)
).
(c)
Relocation of
and sharing by Federal Government stations
(1)
Relocation
prioritized over sharing
(A)
In
general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), all Federal
Government stations in the electromagnetic spectrum described in subsection (d)
shall be relocated to other frequencies under the procedures implemented
pursuant to section 113(g)(6) of the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration Organization Act (
47 U.S.C. 923(g)(6)
). Such
relocation procedures shall ensure maximum cooperation and coordination between
the affected Federal and commercial entities.
(B)
Department of
Defense stations
Section
1062(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public
Law 106–65; 113 Stat. 768) shall apply to the relocation of stations operated
by the Department of Defense in the electromagnetic spectrum described in
subsection (d).
(2)
Sharing where
relocation not possible
(A)
Identification
of stations
If a Federal
entity that operates a Federal Government station in the electromagnetic
spectrum described in subsection (d) determines, based on an operational impact
assessment, that such station cannot be relocated from such spectrum without
jeopardizing essential military capability, such entity shall identify such
station in the transition plan of such entity required, by section 113(h)(1) of
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act
(
47 U.S.C. 923(h)(1)
), to be submitted not later than 240 days before the
commencement of the competitive bidding described in subsection (a)(2).
(B)
Required
elements of transition plan
Each transition plan in which a station is
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall provide for non-Federal users to
share with such station the electromagnetic spectrum described in subsection
(d). Where exclusion zones are necessary to avoid jeopardizing essential
military capability, such plan shall provide for the smallest possible zones
necessary for such purpose.
(3)
Withdrawal or
modification of assignments
(A)
Withdrawal
Upon
relocation of a Federal Government station pursuant to paragraph (1), the
President shall withdraw the assignment to such station of the electromagnetic
spectrum described in subsection (d).
(B)
Modification
For
each Federal Government station identified in a transition plan pursuant to
paragraph (2)(A), the President shall modify the assignment to such station of
the electromagnetic spectrum described in subsection (d) to permit shared
Federal and non-Federal use.
(d)
Spectrum
described
The electromagnetic spectrum described in this
subsection is the spectrum between the frequencies from 1755 megahertz to 1780
megahertz, inclusive.
(e)
Commission
defined
In this section, the term
Commission
means
the Federal Communications Commission.
