1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Bring the Jobs Home Loan Act of 2014
.
2.
Small manufacturer domestic production loan program
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating section 47 as section 48; and
(2)
by inserting after section 46 the following:
47.
Small manufacturer domestic production loan program
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Bring the Jobs Home Loan Act of 2014,
the Administrator shall establish a loan program to assist certain small
business concerns to begin producing, in the United States, products that
the concerns otherwise import.
(b)
Loan authority
In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Administrator may make a loan to
a small business concern involved in manufacturing (as determined by the
Administrator) to assist the concern to make facility and equipment
changes necessary for the concern to begin producing, in the United
States, a product that the concern is importing from a foreign country at
the time the loan is made.
(c)
Applications
To be eligible for a loan under subsection (b), a small business concern shall submit to the
Administrator an application at such time, in such form, and containing
such information as the Administrator may require.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Requirement
Not later than 2 years after a small business concern receives a loan under this section, the
concern shall submit to the Administrator a report describing—
(A)
the facility and equipment changes made with loan funds; and
(B)
the progress made by the concern in producing, in the United States, a product that the concern was
importing from a foreign country at the time the loan was made.
(2)
Use of reports
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator may consider the information
submitted by a small business concern in a report under paragraph (1) in
determining whether to provide to the concern—
(A)
an additional loan under this section; or
(B)
loan assistance under any other program of the Administration.
(e)
Limitation
The Administrator may not make a loan under this section if the cost of the loan (as determined by
the Administrator) is greater than 5 percent of the total amount made
available to the Administrator for the cost of making loans under this
section for the fiscal year in which the loan is made.
.
