1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Iron Dome Support
Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The State of Israel remains under grave
threat and frequent attack from missiles, rockets, and mortar shells fired at
Israeli civilian targets by militants from the Foreign Terrorist Organization
Hamas on its southern border and by the Foreign Terrorist Organization
Hezbollah on its northern border, which have killed, wounded, or inflicted
psychological trauma on countless Israelis.
(2)
The United States
remains committed to Israel’s qualitative military edge, including its
advantage over non-state actors such as Hezbollah and Hamas, which boast
increasingly sophisticated and powerful weapons as a result of support from
Iran, Syria, and other state actors.
(3)
The Israeli
Defense Forces report that the Iron Dome anti-missile defense system has
achieved a success rate of more than 85 percent, intercepting rockets bound for
residential neighborhoods, busy road junctions, shopping centers, and crowded
streets in southern Israel.
(4)
The recent success
of the Iron Dome anti-missile defense system during Operation Pillar of Defense
averted massive Israeli casualties, thereby eliminating Israel’s need to
conduct a ground-based attack against Gaza-based terrorists, enhancing Israel’s
operational flexibility, and preventing terrorists from plunging the region
into crisis whenever they choose.
(5)
The United States
can help to advance its own vital national security interests and the cause of
Middle Eastern peace and stability by supporting Israel’s ability to defend
itself against missiles, rockets, and other threats.
(6)
Israel has
indicated that it is ready to share the technology of the Iron Dome
anti-missile defense system with the United States for the United States use to
strengthen the United States defense capabilities.
(7)
The Government of
Israel currently has five operational Iron Dome batteries deployed in the
field, which are far from sufficient to protect all of Israel’s
territory.
3.
Authorization of
assistance to Israel for Iron Dome anti-missile defense system
The President, acting through the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of State, is authorized to provide assistance,
upon request by the Government of Israel, for the procurement, maintenance,
enhancement, and sustainment of the Iron Dome defense system for purposes of
intercepting short-range and medium-range rockets, missiles, and projectiles
launched against Israel.
