1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
War Authorization Review and Determination Act
or
WARD Act
.
2.
Report to Congress
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to
Congress, in writing, a report setting forth each operation or other
action that is being carried out pursuant to the Authorization for Use of
Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) as of the date of
the submission of the report.
(b)
Form
The report shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex as
appropriate.
3.
Operations and other actions under Authorization for Use of Military Force
(a)
In general
Within 60 days after a report is submitted pursuant to section 2(a), the President shall terminate
each operation or other action described in the report, unless a joint
resolution described in subsection (b) with respect to the operation or
other action is enacted into law in accordance with such subsection.
(b)
Joint resolution described
(1)
In general
For purposes of this section, a joint resolution referred to in subsection (a) is a joint
resolution of the two Houses of Congress, which does not contain a
preamble, and the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is as
follows:
That Congress approves the ____ as contained in the report submitted to Congress pursuant to
section 2(a) of the War Authorization Review and Determination Act on
_____.
with the first blank space being filled with a description of the applicable operation (or
operations) or other action (or other actions) and the second blank space
being filled with the appropriate date.
(2)
Expedited congressional procedures
The provisions of section 6 of the War Powers Resolution (
50 U.S.C. 1545
) shall apply to a joint
resolution described in paragraph (1) to the same extent as such section 6
applies to a joint resolution or bill under that section.
4.
Repeal of Authorization for Use of Military Force
(a)
In general
The Authorization for Use of Military Force (
Public Law 107–40
;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note) is hereby
repealed.
(b)
Effective date
The repeal contained in subsection (a)—
(1)
takes effect on the date that is 240 days after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2)
applies with respect to each operation or other action that is being carried out pursuant to the
Authorization for Use of Military Force initiated before such effective
date.
5.
Rules of construction
(a)
In general
Nothing in this Act—
(1)
shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any authority of the President under any provision of
law other than the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law
107–40;
50 U.S.C. 1541
note); or
(2)
shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any authority of the President to respond to, or to
prevent imminent attacks, on the United States, its territorial
possessions, its embassies, its consulates, or its Armed Forces abroad,
consistent with and limited to the President’s constitutional powers and
responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief.
(b)
Authorization for future operations or other actions
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any authority of the President to
submit to Congress proposed legislation to authorize operations or other
actions relating to the use of military force initiated on or after the
effective date described in section 4(a).
