1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Homeland Security Interoperable Communications Act
or the
DHS Interoperable Communications Act
.
2.
Inclusion of interoperable communications capabilities in responsibilities of Under Secretary for
Management
Section 701 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (
6 U.S.C. 341
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4) of subsection (a), by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, including policies and directives to achieve and maintain interoperable communications among the
components of the Department
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(d)
Interoperable communications defined
In this section, the term
interoperable communications
means the ability of components of the Department to communicate with each other as necessary,
utilizing information technology systems and radio communications systems
to exchange voice, data, and video in real time, as necessary, for acts of
terrorism, daily operations, planned events, and emergencies.
.
3.
Strategy
(a)
In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary for
Management of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a
strategy, which shall be updated as necessary, for achieving and
maintaining interoperable communications (as such term is defined in
subsection (d) of section 701 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as
added by section 2 of this Act) among the components of the Department of
Homeland Security, including for daily operations, planned events, and
emergencies, with corresponding milestones, that includes, at a minimum
the following:
(1)
An assessment of interoperability gaps in radio communications among the components of the
Department, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2)
Information on efforts and activities, including current and planned policies, directives, and
training, of the Department since November 1, 2012, to achieve and
maintain interoperable communications among the components of the
Department, and planned efforts and activities of the Department to
achieve and maintain such interoperable communications.
(3)
An assessment of obstacles and challenges to achieving and maintaining interoperable communications
among the components of the Department.
(4)
Information on, and an assessment of, the adequacy of mechanisms available to the Under Secretary
for Management to enforce and compel compliance with interoperable
communications policies and directives of the Department.
(5)
Guidance provided to the components of the Department to implement interoperable communications
policies and directives of the Department.
(6)
The total amount of funds expended by the Department since November 1, 2012, and projected future
expenditures, to achieve interoperable communications, including on
equipment, infrastructure, and maintenance.
(7)
Dates upon which Department-wide interoperability is projected to be achieved for voice, data, and
video communications, respectively, and interim milestones that correspond
to the achievement of each such mode of communication.
(b)
Supplementary material
Together with the strategy required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for Management shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs of the Senate information on any intra-agency effort or task force
that has been delegated certain responsibilities by the Under Secretary
relating to achieving and maintaining interoperable communications among
the components of the Department by the dates referred to in paragraph (9)
of subsection (a), and on who, within each such component, is responsible
for implementing policies and directives issued by the Under Secretary to
so achieve and maintain such interoperable communications.
4.
Report
Not later than 220 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and biannually thereafter, the
Under Secretary for Management shall submit to the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the status of
efforts, since the issuance of the strategy required under section 3, to
implement such strategy, including the following:
(1)
Progress on each interim milestone referred to in paragraph (9) of subsection (a) toward achieving
and maintaining interoperable communications among the components of the
Department.
(2)
Information on any policies, directives, guidance, and training established by the Under Secretary.
(3)
An assessment of the level of compliance, adoption, and participation among the components of the
Department with the policies, directives, guidance, and training
established by the Under Secretary to achieve and maintain interoperable
communications among such components.
(4)
Information on any additional resources or authorities needed by the Under Secretary.
