1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Strengthening Healthcare Options for Vulnerable Populations Act
.
2.
Reauthorization of certain Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plans
(a)
Permanent extension of Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs Plans authority
Section 1859(f)(1) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–28(f)(1)
) is amended by inserting
, in the case of a specialized MA plan for special needs individuals who are not described in
section 1859(b)(6)(B)(ii),
before
for periods before January 1, 2015
.
(b)
Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs Plans required To provide integrated care
Section 1859(f)(3) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–28(f)(3)
) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
(F)
Not later than December 31, 2018, the plan is fully integrated with capitated contracts with States
for any Medicaid benefits, including long-term care and behavioral health,
to the extent State law permits capitation of such services under such
plan.
.
(c)
Clearly defined role of State Medicaid agency
Section 1852(a)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–22(a)(1)(B)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following new clause:
(vi)
Defined role of State Medicaid agencies with respect to fully integrated dual special needs plans
The Secretary, in coordination with State Medicaid Directors, shall develop a clearly defined role
for State Medicaid agencies in contracting and oversight of plans
described in clause (v)(II).
.
3.
Improvements to Medicare Advantage 5–Star Quality Rating System for plans with predominately Dual
Eligible enrollees
(a)
Treatment of plans with disproportionately high dual eligible enrollees
Section 1853(o) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(o)
) is amended by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
(6)
Treatment of plans with disproportionately high dual eligible enrollees
(A)
In general
In implementing this subsection, the Secretary shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure
that the quality rating for a plan—
(i)
does not disadvantage such a plan that enrolls—
(I)
full-benefit dual eligible individual (as defined in section 1935(c)(6));
(II)
qualified Medicare beneficiaries (as defined in section 1905(p)(1)); or
(III)
individuals with complex health care needs, such as individuals with multiple conditions or
individuals who require chronic care or institutional care; and
(ii)
accounts for differences in socioeconomic and demographic characteristics of enrollees of such a
plan that result in significant variation in health outcomes.
(B)
Specific steps
The steps described in subparagraph (A) shall include at least the following:
(i)
Comparing specialized MA plans for special needs individuals (as defined in section 1859(b)(6)) for
special needs individuals who are described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of
such section only against other plans with the same types of enrollment.
(ii)
Developing a methodology specific to specialized MA plans for special needs individuals (as defined
in section 1859(b)(6)) for special needs individuals who are described in
subparagraph (B)(ii) of such section for determining a quality rating
under this subsection for such plans.
(iii)
Developing appropriate case mix adjustment to Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set
(HEDIS) and Health Outcomes Survey (HOS) measures for specialized MA plans
for special needs individuals (as defined in section 1859(b)(6)) for
special needs individuals who are described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of
such section that account for factors beyond the control of the health
system, such as the management of conditions.
(iv)
Identifying and implementing those quality measures that are appropriate for evaluating the
performance of specialized MA plans for special needs individuals (as
defined in section 1859(b)(6)) for special needs individuals who are
described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of such section.
(v)
Eliminating duplicative or substantially similar measures applied under this title or title XIX
with respect to specialized MA plans.
.
(b)
Temporary treatment of certain dual special needs plans
Section 1853(o) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(o)
), as amended by subsection (a),
is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(7)
Temporary treatment of certain dual special needs plans
In implementing this subsection during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this
paragraph and ending one year after the date on which the Secretary has
taken such steps as are required under paragraph (6), the Secretary may
increase the quality rating that a specialized MA plans for special needs
individuals (as defined in section 1859(b)(6)) for special needs
individuals who are described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of such section
would otherwise receive under this subsection for a year by 0.5 stars if
the plan demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the
quality rating the plan would have otherwise received is predominately
attributable to socio-economic, demographic, or pre-existing complex
health care needs of the population enrolled in such plan with respect to
such year instead of the performance of the plan with respect to such
year.
.
(c)
GAO report
Not later than one year after the date on which the Secretary of Health and Human Services has
taken such steps as are required under paragraph (6) of section 1853(o) of
the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(o)
), as added by subsection
(a), and annually thereafter for the following four years, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that
includes a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of, and
recommendations to improve, such steps so taken for improving health
outcomes, cost controls, and beneficiary satisfaction.
4.
Additional improvements to the oversight and operation of Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs
Plans by the Federal Coordinated Health Care Office
(a)
Dedicated point of contact for assisting States with administration
Section 2602(d) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315b(d)
) is amended
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(6)
Serving as the dedicated point of contact within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to assist States with ongoing issues related to the administration of
specialized MA plans for special needs individuals (as defined in section
1859(b)(6) of the Social Security Act) for special needs individuals who
are described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of such section, including—
(A)
addressing any misalignment between the contracting timelines, processes, and deadlines under title
XVIII of such Act, with respect to such plans for such individuals and
contracting timelines, processes, and deadlines under title XIX of such
Act, with respect to such plans and individuals; and
(B)
streamlining the flow of information to dual eligible individuals and establishing a single set of
rules for outreach and marketing to such individuals.
.
(b)
Authority To waive certain requirements
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Health and Human Services, through the Federal
Coordinated Health Care Office established under section 2602 of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315b
) and in
coordination with the appropriate State Medicaid agency, may waive the
application of requirements under title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to promote the integration, alignment, and delivery of items and services
under the Medicare program under title XVIII of such Act and the Medicaid
program under title XIX of such Act, with respect to dual eligible
individuals (as defined in section 2602(f) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315b(f)
), and to ensure the seamless
delivery of patient-centered services across the continuum of care with
respect to such individuals.
(2)
Public notice requirement
The Secretary may not waive the application of a requirement pursuant to paragraph (1) unless the
Secretary makes such waiver publicly available (whether on the public
Internet website of Department of Health and Human Services, or otherwise)
at least 30 days before the effective date of such waiver.
5.
Improvements to dispute resolution for claims and appeals under Medicare Advantage Dual Special
Needs Plans
(a)
Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs Plans required To provide coverage during appeals process
Section 1859(f)(3) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395w–28(f)(3)
), as amended by section
2(b), is further amended by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
(G)
For plan years beginning after December 31, 2015, coverage under this title and title XIX of an
individual enrolled under such respective title shall continue during any
determination, reconsideration, or appeals proceeding described in section
1852(g), with respect to such individual.
.
(b)
Streamlined pathway for dispute resolution
Not later than December 31, 2015, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish a
streamlined process for dispute resolution for claims and appeals, with
respect items and services furnished to special needs individuals
described in section 1859(b)(6)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w–28(b)(6)(B)(ii)), to align such process under the Medicare
program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act with such process
under the Medicaid program under title XIX of such Act. Such streamlined
process shall take into account various State requirements and promote a
pathway that would be the most beneficial for individuals entitled to
benefits under part A of title XVIII of such Act or enrolled under part B
of such Act and to individuals enrolled under a State plan under title XIX
of such Act.
6.
Report on implementation of certain Medicare and Medicaid fraud detection and program integrity
provisions
Section 1128J(a)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a–7k(a)(1)(A)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new clause:
(iii)
Report on integrated data repository and one program integrity system
Not later than six months after the date of enactment of this clause, the Secretary shall submit to
the appropriate Congressional committees a report on the following:
(I)
Integrated data repository
Efforts to finalize plans and schedules for fully implementing and expanding the use of the
Integrated Data Repository, including actions taken to finalize,
implement, and manage plans for incorporating data into the Integrated
Data Repository and actions taken to define measurable financial benefits
expected from the implementation of the Integrated Data Repository.
(II)
One program integrity system
Actions taken to plan, schedule, and conduct training on the One Program Integrity System, a
Web-based portal and suite of software tools used to analyze and extract
data from the Integrated Data Repository, and actions taken to define
measurable financial benefits expected from the use of the One Program
Integrity System.
.
