1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Increasing Technology Skills Act of 2014
.
2.
Establishment of fund
(a)
Establishment
There is established in the Department of Labor a fund to be known as the Information Technology
Certification Fund (referred to in this Act as the
Fund
).
(b)
Deposits
The Fund shall consist of amounts donated by any person, partnership, or corporation, including
nonprofit organizations and foundations that pledges to continue to donate
a consistent amount for a minimum of three consecutive years.
(c)
Administration and use of funds
The Fund shall be administered by the Secretary of Labor and used to carry out the grant program
established under section 4.
3.
Employers hiring individuals completing the information technology certification program eligible
for work opportunity credit
(a)
In general
Section 51(d)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
or
at the end of subparagraph (H), by the striking the period at the end of subparagraph (I) and
inserting
, or
, and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(J)
a certified information technology certification program graduate.
.
(b)
Certified information technology certification program graduate
Section 51(d) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs (12),
(13), (14), and (15), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (10)
the following new paragraph:
(11)
Certified information technology certification program graduate
The term
certified information technology certification program graduate
means any individual who has been awarded a certificate of completion under section 5(f) of the
Increasing Technology Skills Act of 2014
for completing the information technology certification program established under such Act during
the 1-year period ending on the hiring date.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to individuals who begin work with the employer
after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
4.
Grants to States
(a)
In general
From funds available in the Fund established by section 2, the Secretary of Labor shall award
grants, on a competitive basis, to States through the State boards.
(b)
Application
To receive a grant under this section, a State board shall submit to the Secretary an application
at such time and containing such information as the Secretary shall
determine.
(c)
Use of funds
A State board shall use grant funds to provide financial support to qualified individuals for
participation in an information technology certification program, in
accordance with section 5.
5.
Financial support for information technology certification
(a)
Identification of programs and public awareness
Each State receiving a grant under section 4 shall—
(1)
identify information technology certification programs within the State and the requirements
necessary for a qualified individual to participate in each program;
(2)
disseminate information, through one-stop centers and by other means, regarding such certification
programs and the availability of financial support from the grant funds to
enable qualified individuals to participate in such programs; and
(3)
assist qualified individuals in determining which information technology certification program such
individual is most qualified for and best meets the goals of such
individual.
(b)
Application of qualified individuals
A qualified individual seeking to participate in an information technology certification program
and receive financial support shall submit an application to a local
one-stop center containing such information as the State Board shall
determine.
(c)
Selection
Qualified individuals shall be selected by the local one-centers, in conjunction with local
chambers of commerce where appropriate, for participation based on their
overall qualification for the certification programs taking into
consideration their experience, skills, and competency, including high
school level or better competency in typing, math, reading, and writing.
(d)
Eligible expenses
Financial support may be provided to pay for the costs to the qualified individual of preparatory
classes, study materials, and examination expenses for the information
technology certification program.
(e)
One-Time participation
Qualified individuals selected to receive financial support under this section may only participate
once. Such participation consists of a single information technology
certification, regardless of whether the individual obtains the
certification. Such certification may consist of multiple preparatory
classes and multiple examinations.
(f)
Certificate
The State board shall award a certificate of completion to each individual who completes the
program and obtains a certification.
6.
Department of Labor guidance and facilitation
(a)
Background information and selection guidance
The Secretary of Labor shall create an introductory program for use in one-stop centers to provide
background information to participants on information technology
certification programs, to ensure such participants meet the necessary
requirements, and suggest which certification program a participant should
pursue according to his or her experience, skills and competency.
(b)
Identification of local employment needs
In consultation with local chambers of commerce, the Secretary shall identify the certification
programs that best meet the employment needs in each local area.
(c)
Website
The Secretary of Labor shall make the information required under subsections (a) and (b) available
on an Internet website. Such website shall also include information on
participating persons, partnerships, and corporations who donate money to
the fund established by section 2, unless the person, partnership, or
corporation requests that this information not be included on the website.
(d)
Facilitation of in-Kind donations
The Secretary of Labor, in coordination with the State boards, local one-stop centers, and local
chambers of commerce, shall facilitate the placing of in-kind donations of
textbooks or other study materials by entities described in section 2(b)
with qualified individuals participating in certification programs.
7.
Definitions
As used in this Act—
(1)
the term
information technology certification program
means any course of study or training in computer science or information technology that
culminates with an individual earning a certification or other
industry-recognized credential that attests to the individual’s
qualification to perform a job or task that entails the application of
computers and telecommunications equipment;
(2)
the term
qualified individual
means an individual who—
(A)
at the time he or she submits an application for financial support under section 5, has been
unemployed for a period of not less than 6 months; or
(B)
is a veteran of the Armed Services;
(3)
the term
one-stop center
means a one-stop operator as defined in section 101 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29
U.S.C. 2801); and
(4)
the term
State board
means a State workforce investment board established under section 111 of the Workforce Investment
Act of 1998 (
29 U.S.C. 2811
).
