1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Railroad Hours of Service Employees Technical Corrections Act
.
2.
Leave requirement for railroad hours of service employees
(a)
Inclusion of railroad hours of service employees
Section 101(2) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (
29 U.S.C. 2611(2)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
(E)
Railroad hours of service employees
(i)
Determination
For purposes of determining whether a railroad employee who is subject to the hours of service laws
under
chapter 211
of title 49, United States Code, meets the hours of
service requirement specified in subparagraph (A)(ii), the employee will
be considered to meet the requirement if—
(I)
the employee has worked or been paid for not less than 60 percent of the applicable total
guarantee, or the equivalent, for the previous 12-month period, for or by
the employer with respect to whom leave is requested under section 102;
and
(II)
the employee has worked or been paid for not less than 504 hours (not counting personal commute
time or time spent on vacation leave or medical or sick leave) during the
previous 12-month period, for or by that employer.
(ii)
File
Each employer of an employee described in clause (i) shall maintain on file with the Secretary (in
accordance with such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe)
information specifying the applicable guarantee with respect to each
category of employee to which such guarantee applies.
(iii)
Definition
In this subparagraph, the term
applicable guarantee
means—
(I)
for an employee described in clause (i) other than an employee on reserve status, the minimum
number of hours for which an employer has agreed to schedule such employee
for any given period; and
(II)
for an employee described in clause (i) who is on reserve status, the number of hours for which an
employer has agreed to pay such employee on reserve status for any given
period,
as established in the applicable collective bargaining agreement or, if none exists, in the
employer’s policies.
.
(b)
Calculation of leave for railroad hours of service employees
Section 102(a) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (
29 U.S.C. 2612(a)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
(5)
Calculation of leave for railroad hours of service employees
The Secretary may provide, by regulation, a method for calculating the leave described in paragraph
(1) with respect to employees described in section 101(2)(E).
.
