1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Department of Defense Energy Security Act of 2014
.
2.
Energy savings performance contracts
(a)
Agency payments
Section 801(a)(2)(B) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (
42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)(B)
) is
amended in the first sentence—
(1)
by striking
both utilities
and inserting
utilities, entities that supply, deliver, and transport fuel,
; and
(2)
by inserting
or fuel supply, delivery, or transport
after
for utilities
.
(b)
Nonbuilding applications
Section 801(a)(2) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (
42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)
) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
(H)
Nonbuilding applications
A Federal agency may enter into an energy savings performance contract under this title for the
purpose of reducing the costs of fuel supply, delivery, or transport for
nonbuilding applications, including secondary savings.
.
(c)
Definitions
Section 804 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (
42 U.S.C. 8287c
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (2)(A)—
(A)
in the matter preceding clause (i)—
(i)
by striking
or wastewater treatment
and inserting
wastewater treatment, or fuel supply, delivery, or transport
; and
(ii)
by inserting
or nonbuilding applications
after
federally owned facilities
;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking
or
after the semicolon at the end;
(C)
in clause (iii), by inserting
or
after the semicolon at the end; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(iv)
the improved efficiency of fuel use in nonbuilding applications.
;
(2)
in the first sentence of paragraph (3), by inserting
or for the purpose of reducing the cost of fuel supply, delivery, or transport for nonbuilding
applications
before the period at the end; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Nonbuilding application
The term
nonbuilding application
means—
(A)
any class of vehicles, devices, or equipment that—
(i)
is transportable under the power of the applicable vehicle, device, or equipment by land, sea, or
air; and
(ii)
consumes energy from any fuel source for the purpose of—
(I)
that transportation; or
(II)
maintaining a controlled environment within the vehicle, device, or equipment; and
(B)
any federally owned equipment used to generate electricity or transport water.
(6)
Secondary savings
(A)
In general
The term
secondary savings
means additional energy or cost savings that are a direct consequence of the energy savings that
result from the energy efficiency improvements that were financed and
implemented pursuant to an energy savings performance contract.
(B)
Inclusions
The term
secondary savings
includes—
(i)
energy and cost savings that result from a reduction in the need for fuel delivery and logistical
support;
(ii)
personnel cost savings and environmental benefits; and
(iii)
in the case of electric generation equipment, the benefits of increased efficiency in the
production of electricity, including revenues received by the Federal
Government from the sale of electricity from the production.
.
3.
Authorization for research to improve military vehicle technology to increase fuel economy or
reduce fuel consumption of military vehicles used in combat
(a)
Research authorized
The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering and in collaboration with the Secretary of the Army and the
Secretary of the Navy, may carry out research to improve military vehicle
technology to increase fuel economy or reduce fuel consumption of military
vehicles used in combat.
(b)
Previous successes
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that research carried out under subsection (a) takes into
account the successes of, and lessons learned during, the development of
the Fuel Efficient Ground Vehicle Alpha and Bravo programs to identify,
assess, develop, demonstrate, and prototype technologies that support
increasing fuel economy and decreasing fuel consumption of light tactical
vehicles, while balancing survivability.
4.
Requirement to establish repository for operational energy-related research and development efforts
of Department of Defense
(a)
Repository required
Not later than December 31, 2015, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering and in collaboration with the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs
and the Secretaries of the military departments, shall establish a
centralized repository for all operational energy-related research and
development efforts of the Department of Defense, including with respect
to the inception, operational, and complete phases of such efforts.
(b)
Internet access
The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the repository required by subsection (a) is accessible
through an Internet website of the Department of Defense and by all
employees of the Department and members of the Armed Forces whom the
Secretary determines appropriate, including all program managers involved
in such research and development efforts, to enable improved collaboration
between military departments on research and development efforts described
in subsection (a), sharing of best practices and lessons learned relating
to such efforts, and reduce redundancy in such efforts.
5.
Executive agent for warrior power
Not later than September 31, 2014, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a Department of Defense
executive agent for warrior power to align and advance efforts across the
military services to measure and manage the research, development,
testing, evaluation, procurement, and fielding of man-portable tactical
power generation systems to power tactical communications equipment,
weapons systems, and other troop equipment.
6.
Secure Energy Innovation Program
(a)
Establishment
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to develop and support projects designed to
foster secure and reliable sources of energy for military installations,
including incorporation of advanced energy metering, renewable energy,
energy storage, and redundant power systems.
(b)
Metrics
The Secretary of Defense shall develop metrics for assessing the costs and benefits associated with
secure energy projects proposed or implemented as part of the program
established under subsection (a). The metrics shall take into account
financial and operational costs associated with sustained losses of power
resulting from natural disasters or attacks that damage electrical grids
serving military installations.
7.
Authority to use Energy Savings Investment Fund for energy management initiatives
Section 2919(b)(2)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking
, to the extent provided for in an appropriations Act,
.
8.
Establishment of Department of Defense Alternative Fueled Vehicle Infrastructure Fund
(a)
Establishment of Fund
There is established in the Treasury a fund to be known as the
Department of Defense Alternative Fuel Vehicle Infrastructure Fund
(in this section referred to as the
Fund
).
(b)
Deposits
The Fund shall consist of the following:
(1)
Amounts appropriated to the Fund.
(2)
Amounts earned through investment under subsection (c).
(3)
Any other amounts made available to the Fund by law.
(c)
Investments
The Secretary shall invest any part of the Fund that the Secretary decides is not required to meet
current expenses. Each investment shall be made in an interest-bearing
obligation of the United States Government, or an obligation that has its
principal and interest guaranteed by the Government, that the Secretary
decides has a maturity suitable for the Fund.
(d)
Use of funds
Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Training, and Logistics, to install, operate, and
maintain alternative fuel dispensing stations for use by alternative
fueled vehicles of the Department of Defense and other infrastructure
necessary to fuel alternative fueled vehicles of the Department.
(e)
Private use
The Secretary may make alternative fuel dispensed through alternative fuel dispensing stations of
the Department available to employees of the Department and members of the
Armed Forces for private use.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Alternative fuel
The term
alternative fuel
has the meaning given such term in
section 32901
of title 49, United States Code.
(2)
Alternative fueled vehicle
The term
alternative fueled vehicle
means a vehicle that operates on alternative fuel.
