1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans’ Toxic Wounds Research Act of 2014
.
2.
Comprehensive program of research into toxic exposures encountered by veterans during military
service
(a)
Registry of toxic exposures
(1)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs shall establish a master registry of veterans who experienced
toxic exposures while serving in the Armed Forces.
(2)
Elements
The master registry established under paragraph (1) shall consist of the registries described in
paragraph (3). The Secretary shall establish each such registry using the
Clinical Case Registry of the Department of Veterans Affairs as a model.
(3)
Registries described
The registries described in this paragraph are registries for each of the following:
(A)
Agent Orange.
(B)
Exposure to toxins relating to a deployment during the Persian Gulf War (as defined in section
101(33) of title 38, United States Code), including with respect to such
exposures leading to Gulf War Illness (as defined by the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academies).
(C)
Exposure to toxins relating to a deployment during Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn,
Operation Enduring Freedom, or the Global War on Terror.
(D)
Exposure to toxins relating to a deployment to Bosnia, Somalia, the Philippines, or other locations
determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(E)
Exposure to toxins relating to being stationed at a military installation potentially contaminated
by toxic substances, including Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, Fort
McClellan, Alabama, and such installations in Guam.
(F)
Any other toxic exposure the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b)
Review
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of
Sciences to review published scientific information and studies on the
health effects of toxic exposures covered in a registry described in
subsection (a)(3). Under such agreement, the Institute of Medicine of the
National Academies shall submit to the Secretary on a biennial basis a
report on toxic substance exposure-related illnesses. Such report shall
include—
(1)
a review of all scientific studies and research on the association between toxic substance
exposures and specific diseases covered in such a registry, including the
level of association between such exposures and the specific diseases; and
(2)
recommendations for future research.
(c)
Research into the effects of toxic exposure on second and third generations
In addition to the reviews under subsection (b), the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with
the National Academy of Sciences to review published scientific
information and studies on the health effects on the children and
grandchildren of veterans with toxic exposures covered in a registry
described in subsection (a)(3). Under such agreement, the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academies shall submit to the Secretary on a
biennial basis a report on toxic substance exposure-related illnesses.
Such report shall include—
(1)
a review of all scientific studies and research on the association between toxic substance
exposures and specific diseases covered in such a registry in such
children and grandchildren, including the level of association between
such exposures and the specific diseases; and
(2)
recommendations for future research.
(d)
Research
The Secretary shall use the reviews conducted under subsections (b) and (c) to inform the decisions
made by the Secretary with respect to selecting the research to be
conducted or funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Secretary
shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a report describing how the Secretary used
such reviews to make such selections.
3.
Presumptions of service connection for illnesses associated with toxic exposures encountered by
veterans during military service
(a)
In general
Subchapter II of
chapter 11
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
1119.
Presumptions of service connection for illnesses associated with toxic exposures
(a)
Presumption
(1)
For purposes of section 1110 of this title, and subject to section 1113 of this title, each
illness, if any, described in paragraph (2) shall be considered to have
been incurred in or aggravated by service referred to in that paragraph,
notwithstanding that there is no record of evidence of such illness during
the period of such service.
(2)
An illness referred to in paragraph (1) is any diagnosed or undiagnosed illness that—
(A)
the Secretary determines in regulations prescribed under this section to warrant a presumption of
service connection by reason of having a positive association with
exposure to a toxic substance covered in the master registry; and
(B)
becomes manifest within the period, if any, prescribed in such regulations in a veteran who served
in the Armed Forces and by reason of such service experienced such
exposure.
(3)
For purposes of this subsection, a veteran who served in the Armed Forces in a location recognized
under the master registry as being a source of exposure and has an illness
described in paragraph (2) shall be presumed to have been exposed by
reason of such service unless there is conclusive evidence to establish
that the veteran was not so exposed by reason of such service.
(b)
(1)
(A)
Whenever the Secretary makes a determination described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall
prescribe regulations providing that a presumption of service connection
is warranted for the illness covered by that determination for purposes of
this section.
(B)
A determination referred to in subparagraph (A) is a determination based on sound medical and
scientific evidence that a positive association exists between—
(i)
the exposure of humans or animals to a toxic substance covered in the master registry; and
(ii)
the occurrence of a diagnosed or un­di­ag­nosed illness in humans or animals.
(2)
(A)
In making determinations for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into account—
(i)
the reports submitted to the Secretary by the National Academy of Sciences under section 2(b) of
the Veterans’ Toxic Wounds Research Act of 2014; and
(ii)
all other sound medical and scientific information and analyses available to the Secretary.
(B)
In evaluating any report, information, or analysis for purposes of making such determinations, the
Secretary shall take into consideration whether the results are
statistically significant, are capable of replication, and withstand peer
review.
(3)
An association between the occurrence of an illness in humans or animals and exposure to a toxic
substance covered in the master registry shall be considered to be
positive for purposes of this subsection if the credible evidence for the
association is equal to or outweighs the credible evidence against the
association.
(c)
(1)
Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a report from the National
Academy of Sciences under section 2(b) of the Veterans’ Toxic Wounds
Research Act of 2014, the Secretary shall determine whether or not a
presumption of service connection is warranted for each illness, if any,
covered by the report.
(2)
If the Secretary determines under this subsection that a presumption of service connection is
warranted, the Secretary shall, not later than 60 days after making the
determination, issue proposed regulations setting forth the Secretary’s
determination.
(3)
(A)
If the Secretary determines under this subsection that a presumption of service connection is not
warranted, the Secretary shall, not later than 60 days after making the
determination, publish in the Federal Register a notice of the
determination. The notice shall include an explanation of the scientific
basis for the determination.
(B)
If an illness already presumed to be service connected under this section is subject to a
determination under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall, not later than
60 days after publication of the notice under that subparagraph, issue
proposed regulations removing the presumption of service connection for
the illness.
(4)
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary issues any proposed regulations under
this subsection, the Secretary shall issue final regulations. Such
regulations shall be effective on the date of issuance.
(d)
Whenever the presumption of service connection for an illness under this section is removed under
subsection (c)—
(1)
a veteran who was awarded compensation for the illness on the basis of the presumption before the
effective date of the removal of the presumption shall continue to be
entitled to receive compensation on that basis; and
(2)
a survivor of a veteran who was awarded dependency and indemnity compensation for the death of a
veteran resulting from the illness on the basis of the presumption before
that date shall continue to be entitled to receive dependency and
indemnity compensation on that basis.
(e)
Master registry defined
In this section, the term
master registry
means the registry of veterans who experienced toxic exposures established by section 2 of the
Veterans’ Toxic Wounds Research Act of 2014.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 1118 the following new item:
1119. Presumptions of service connection for illnesses associated with toxic exposures.
.
4.
Inclusion of certain information in electronic health records
In implementing the electronic health record system of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the electronic health
record of each individual includes, at a minimum, the following
information:
(1)
Whether the individual served in the Armed Forces.
(2)
The Armed Force in which the individual served.
(3)
The locations in which the individual was stationed or deployed to during such service.
(4)
The dates of such service.
(5)
The military occupational specialty of the individual.
(6)
The results of any tests or assessments of the individual regarding—
(A)
vision;
(B)
hearing;
(C)
hepatitis C;
(D)
HIV;
(E)
blood pressure;
(F)
cholesterol;
(G)
blood glucose test and diabetes information;
(H)
body mass index measurement;
(I)
bone density, as appropriate based on the age or sex of the individual;
(J)
cancer screenings (as appropriate based on the age, sex, race, or ethnicity of the individual)
for—
(i)
breast cancer;
(ii)
colorectal cancer;
(iii)
lung cancer;
(iv)
prostate cancer; and
(v)
skin cancer;
(K)
preventive immunizations, if not current;
(L)
spirometry (for lung function);
(M)
smoking;
(N)
a mental health evaluation;
(O)
substance abuse; or
(P)
infectious diseases or parasites or other adverse health conditions endemic to where the individual
served while in the military.
