1.
Permanent resident status for
Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas
(a)
In
general
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1151
), Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas shall each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154
) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
(b)
Adjustment of
status
If Javier Lopez-Urenda or Maria Leticia Arenas enter the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), that alien shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1255
) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c)
Deadline for
application and payment of fees
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only to an application for issuance of an immigrant visa or an application for adjustment of status that is filed, with appropriate fees, within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d)
Reduction of
immigrant visa number
Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 2, during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the aliens’ birth under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act
(
8 U.S.C. 1153(a)
) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the aliens’ birth under section 202(e) of such Act (
8 U.S.C. 1152(e)
).
(e)
PAYGO
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation
for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
