1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Human Trafficking Survivors Relief and Empowerment Act of 2015
.
2.
Protections for human trafficking survivors
(a)
Grant program
Section 1701(c) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3796dd(c)
) is amended by striking
where feasible
and all that follows, and inserting the following:
where feasible, to an application—
(1)
for hiring and rehiring additional career law enforcement officers that involves a non-Federal contribution exceeding the 25 percent minimum under subsection (g); or
(2)
from an applicant in a State that has in effect a law—
(A)
that—
(i)
provides a process by which an individual who is human trafficking survivor can move to vacate any arrest or conviction records for prostitution or any other non-violent offense committed as a direct result of human trafficking;
(ii)
establishes a rebuttable presumption that any arrest or conviction of an individual for an offense associated with human trafficking is a result of being trafficked, if the individual—
(I)
is a person granted nonimmigrant status pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T)(i)
);
(II)
is the subject of a certification by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 107(b)(1)(E) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(E)
); or
(III)
has other similar documentation of trafficking, which has been issued by a Federal agency; and
(iii)
protects the identity of individuals who are human trafficking survivors in public and court records; and
(B)
that does not require an individual who is a human trafficking survivor to provide official documentation as described in subclause (I), (II), or (III) of subparagraph (A)(ii) in order to receive protection under the law.
.
(b)
Legal services for human trafficking survivors
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Legal Services Corporation and the recipients of its funding may provide legal services on behalf a human trafficking survivor applying for a motion to vacate under a State law described in paragraph (2) of section 1701(c) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (
42 U.S.C. 3796dd(c)
), as added by subsection (a).
