1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reservation Land Consolidation Act of 2016
.
2.
On-reservation land acquisitions
The Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the
Indian Reorganization Act
), is amended by inserting after section 5 (
25 U.S.C. 465
) the following:
5A.
On-reservation land acquisitions
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Indian tribe
The term
Indian tribe
means an Indian tribe included in the list published by the Secretary in the Federal Register pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (
25 U.S.C. 479a–1
).
(2)
Reservation
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the term
reservation
means the area of land over which an Indian tribe is recognized by the United States as having governmental jurisdiction.
(B)
Application to certain land
Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), with respect to the State of Oklahoma or where there has been a final judicial determination that a reservation has been disestablished or diminished, the term
reservation
means the area of land constituting the former reservation of an Indian tribe, as defined by the Secretary.
(C)
Effect
If the meaning given the term
reservation
in subparagraphs (A) and (B) conflicts with any law enacted by Congress to acquire, or to authorize the acquisition of, title to particular land to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian tribe, that law shall control with respect to that land.
(b)
Acquisition of land in trust
An Indian tribe seeking to have land wholly within or contiguous to the reservation of the Indian tribe taken into trust for the benefit of that Indian tribe shall submit to the Secretary an application containing such title evidence necessary for the United States to accept title to the land.
(c)
Requirements
Immediately on application under subsection (b), and subject only to Federal land acquisition title requirements applicable to an acquisition of land by the Secretary to be held in trust for the benefit of an Indian tribe, the Secretary shall take into trust the land covered by the application.
.
