1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Modernizing American Manufacturing Bonds Act
.
2.
Modifications to qualified small issue bonds
(a)
Manufacturing Facilities To Include Production of Intangible Property and Functionally Related Facilities
Section 144(a)(12)(C)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
(C)
Manufacturing facility
For purposes of this paragraph—
(i)
In general
The term
manufacturing facility
means any facility which—
(I)
is used in the manufacturing or production of tangible personal property (including the processing resulting in a change in the condition of such property),
(II)
is used in the creation or production of intangible property which is described in section 197(d)(1)(C)(iii), or
(III)
is functionally related and subordinate to a facility described in subclause (I) or (II) if such facility is located on the same site as the facility described in subclause (I) or (II).
(ii)
Certain facilities included
The term
manufacturing facility
includes facilities that are directly related and ancillary to a manufacturing facility (determined without regard to this clause) if—
(I)
those facilities are located on the same site as the manufacturing facility, and
(II)
not more than 25 percent of the net proceeds of the issue are used to provide those facilities.
(iii)
Limitation on office space
A rule similar to the rule of section 142(b)(2) shall apply for purposes of clause (i).
(iv)
Limitation on refundings for certain property
Subclauses (II) and (III) of clause (i) shall not apply to any bond issued on or before the date of the enactment of the
Modernizing American Manufacturing Bonds Act
, or to any bond issued to refund a bond issued on or before such date (other than a bond to which clause (iii) of this subparagraph (as in effect before the date of the enactment of the
Modernizing American Manufacturing Bonds Act
applies)), either directly or in a series of refundings.
.
(b)
Increase in limitations
Section 144(a)(4) of such Code is amended—
(1)
by striking
$10,000,000
in subparagraph (A)(i) and inserting
$30,000,000
, and
(2)
by striking
$10,000,000
in the heading and inserting
$30,000,000
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to obligations issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.
