119 HCON 43 IH: Expressing the sense of Congress that any public rendition of ГўВҖВңThe Star-Spangled BannerГўВҖВқ must be performed as written by Francis Scott Key, in English.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-07-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. CON. RES. 43
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 10, 2025
Mrs. Bice
(for herself,
Mr. Rogers of Alabama
,
Mr. Moore of Alabama
,
Mr. Feenstra
,
Mr. Murphy
,
Mrs. Miller-Meeks
,
Mr. Downing
,
Mrs. Houchin
, and
Mr. Carter of Georgia
) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of Congress that any public rendition of
The Star-Spangled Banner
must be performed as written by Francis Scott Key, in English.
Whereas
The Star-Spangled Banner
, written by Francis Scott Key in 1814, was designated as the national anthem of the United States by Congress in 1931;
Whereas the lyrics of
The Star-Spangled Banner
, as originally composed in English, reflect the historical and cultural significance of the United States resilience and unity during a time of national challenge;
Whereas the English-language text of the anthem, as written by Francis Scott Key, serves as a unifying symbol of American heritage and patriotism;
Whereas preserving the original English lyrics in public performances honors the historical context and intent of the anthem as a representation of the NationГўВҖВҷs values and identity; and
Whereas maintaining the integrity of the anthemГўВҖВҷs original language fosters a shared understanding and respect for its meaning among all Americans: Now, therefore, be it
ThatГўВҖВ”
(1)
any public rendition of
The Star-Spangled Banner
should be performed as written by Francis Scott Key, in the English language, to preserve its historical and cultural integrity;
(2)
public performances of the national anthem should reflect the original lyrics to maintain its unifying significance for the people of the United States; and
(3)
performers and organizers of public events are encouraged to honor the tradition of presenting
The Star-Spangled Banner
in its original English form, as a tribute to its historical and patriotic importance.
