Section 1.

Interagency Group on Insular Areas.

(a) There is established, within   for administrative purposes,   ) to address policies concerning  ,  ,   Virgin Islands, and   (Insular Areas).

(b) The   shall consist of:

(i) the heads of the executive departments, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101;

(ii) the heads of such other executive agencies as   of the   may designate; and

(iii) the Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of  .

(c) The Secretary of the   and the Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of   shall serve as   of the  , convene and preside at its meetings, direct its work, and establish such subgroups of the   as they deem appropriate, consisting exclusively of members of the  .

(d) Members of the   may designate a senior department or agency official who is a full-time officer or employee of   to perform their   functions.

 . 2.

Functions of the  .

The   shall:

(a) advise the President on establishment or implementation of policies concerning  ;

(b) solicit information and advice concerning   from the Governors of, and other elected officials in,   (including through at least one meeting   with any   of   who may wish to attend) in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment, or consensus advice or deliberation;

(c) solicit information and advice concerning  , as the   determines appropriate, from representatives of entities or other individuals in a manner that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective judgment, or consensus advice or deliberation;

(d) solicit information from executive departments or agencies for purposes of carrying out its mission; and

(e) at the request of the head of any executive department or agency who is a member of the  , with the approval of  , promptly review and provide advice on a policy or policy implementation action affecting   proposed by that department or agency.

 . 3.

Recommendations.

The   shall:

(a) submit   to the President a report containing recommendations regarding the establishment or implementation of policies concerning  ; and

(b) provide to the President, from time to time, as appropriate, recommendations concerning proposed or existing Federal programs and policies affecting  .

 . 4.

General Provisions.

(a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  . Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within  ; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order shall supersede Executive Order   of  .

(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
