Section 1.

(a) The importation into   of any jadeite or rubies mined or extracted from   and any articles of jewelry containing jadeite or rubies mined or extracted from   is hereby prohibited.

(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) of this section applies except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.

 . 2

. I hereby amend Executive Order  , by revoking sections 3 and 8 of that order. The revocation of those provisions of Executive Order   pursuant to this section shall not affect any violation of any rules, regulations, orders, licenses, or other forms of administrative action under that order during the period that those provisions of that order were in effect.

 . 3

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 4

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "jadeite" means any jadeite classifiable under heading   of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of   (HTS);

(b) the term "rubies" means any rubies classifiable under heading   of the HTS;

(c) the term "articles of jewelry containing jadeite or rubies" means:

(i) any article of jewelry classifiable under heading   of the HTS that contains jadeites or rubies; or

(ii) any article of jadeite or rubies classifiable under heading   of the HTS;

(d) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(e) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

 . 5

. Nothing in section 1 of this order shall prohibit transactions to the extent such prohibition would conflict with the international obligations of   under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations,    ,  , or other legal instruments providing equivalent privileges and immunities.

 . 6

. Nothing in section 1 of this order shall prohibit the importation of any jadeite or rubies mined or extracted from   or any articles of jewelry containing jadeite or rubies mined or extracted from   that were previously exported from  , including those that accompanied an individual outside   for personal use, if they are reimported to   by the same person, without having been advanced in value or improved in condition by any process or other means while outside  .

 . 7

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 8

. Pursuant to section 5(i) of the JADE Act, I hereby determine and certify that it is in the national interest of   to waive, and hereby waive, the sanctions described in section 5(b) of the JADE Act. Except as authorized or exempt, transactions with persons included on     and Blocked Persons continue to be prohibited pursuant to  .

 . 9

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 10

. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .
