Section 1.

Policy.

It is the policy of   to plan and prepare for the timely provision of medical countermeasures to the   people in the event of a biological attack in   through a rapid Federal response in coordination with  , local, territorial, and tribal governments.

This policy would seek to: (1) mitigate illness and prevent death; (2) sustain critical infrastructure; and (3) complement and supplement  , local, territorial, and tribal government medical countermeasure distribution capacity.

 . 2.

 .

(a)   has the capacity for rapid residential delivery of medical countermeasures for self administration across all communities in  . The   shall pursue a national   medical countermeasures dispensing model to respond to a large-scale biological attack.

(b)   and  , in coordination with  , within   of the date of this order, shall establish a national   medical countermeasures dispensing model for   cities to respond to a large-scale biological attack, with anthrax as the primary threat consideration.

(c) In support of the national   model,  , and  , and the Attorney General, in coordination with  , and in consultation with   and local public health, emergency management, and law enforcement officials, within   of the date of this order, shall develop an accompanying plan for supplementing local law enforcement personnel, as necessary and appropriate, with local Federal law enforcement, as well as other appropriate personnel, to escort   workers delivering medical countermeasures.

 . 3.

Federal Rapid Response.

(a)   must develop the capacity to anticipate and immediately supplement the capabilities of affected jurisdictions to rapidly distribute medical countermeasures following a biological attack. Implementation of a Federal strategy to rapidly dispense medical countermeasures requires establishment of a   rapid response capability.

(b)  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , within   of the date of this order, shall develop a concept of operations and establish requirements for a   rapid response to dispense medical countermeasures to an affected population following a large-scale biological attack.

 . 4.

 .

(a)   must establish mechanisms for the provision of medical countermeasures to personnel performing mission-essential functions to ensure that mission-essential functions of Federal agencies continue to be performed following a biological attack.

(b)   and  , within   of the date of this order, shall develop a plan for the provision of medical countermeasures to ensure that mission-essential functions of executive branch departments and agencies continue to be performed following a large-scale biological attack.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
