Section 1.

Policy.

Cities, towns, and regions across our   continue to face difficult economic challenges. Enhancing current Federal assistance is helping to lift communities out of distress. To allow   to better partner with these local communities to build local capacity to address economic issues, and to support comprehensive planning and regional collaboration, my Administration established  , Strong Communities (SC2) pilot initiative. By partnering with cities and regions to augment their vision for stability and economic growth, the SC2 was designed to help communities strengthen their capacity to create jobs and more competitive business climates, and implement locally driven community and regional planning approaches that lead to sustained economic growth, as well as ensure that Federal assistance is more efficiently provided and used.

This order improves the way   engages with and supports local communities by better aligning resources and coordinating efforts across executive departments and agencies (agencies) so that communities across the country have access to comprehensive, localized technical assistance and planning resources to develop and implement their economic vision and strategies.

 . 2.

 , Strong Communities.

There is established a  ,   (Council) within  , to be chaired by the Secretary of   and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy ( ).

(a)

Membership.

In addition to  , the   shall consist of the following members:

(i) the Secretary of the  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  ;

(iii) the Attorney General;

(iv) the Secretary of the  ;

(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi) the Secretary of  ;

(vii) the Secretary of  ;

(viii) the Secretary of  ;

(ix) the Secretary of  ;

(x) the Secretary of  ;

(xi) the Secretary of  ;

(xii) the Secretary of  ;

(xiii) the Secretary of  ;

( ) the Chair of  ;

(xv)  ;

(xvi) the Director of  ;

(xvii)  ;

(xviii) the Administrator of  ;

(xix) the Chief Executive Officer of  ;

(xx) the Chairperson of  ;

(xxi) the Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for   and Public Engagement;

(xxii) the Assistant to the President and   Secretary;

(xxiii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;

(xxiv) the Chair of  ;

(xxv) the Director of  ; and

(xxvi) the heads of such other agencies and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.

A member of the   may designate, to perform the   functions of the member, a senior-level official who is a part of the member's agency or office, and who is a full-time officer or employee of  .

(b)

Administration.

The Co-Chairs shall convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work. The Secretary of   shall appoint an Executive Director of the   to coordinate the  's activities. At the direction of  , the   may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of   members or their designees, as appropriate. Agencies may detail staff to the   to support its coordination and implementation efforts.

 . 3.

Mission and Function of the  .

The   shall, to the extent permitted by law, work across agencies and offices to:

(a) coordinate the development and implementation of the various components of the SC2, as determined by  ;

(b) coordinate agency efforts to ensure communities have access to comprehensive, localized technical assistance and planning resources to develop and execute their economic vision and strategies (including, where appropriate, efforts of existing committees or taskforces related to providing technical assistance to local governments and improving their capacity to address economic issues);

(c) ensure that members of the   incorporate SC2 implementation efforts into their agency   performance plans and those efforts' outcomes into their   performance results;

(d) provide recommendations to the President, through   on:

(i) policies for building local expertise in strengthening local economies;

(ii) changes to Federal policies and programs to address issues of special importance to cities and local governments that pertain to local capacity and economic growth;

(iii) implementing best practices from the SC2 initiative Government-wide to better support cities and local governments; and

(iv) opportunities to increase the flexible utilization of existing Federal program resources across agencies to enable more performance and outcome-based funding;

(e) encourage the development of technical assistance, planning, and financing tools and implementation strategies that can be coordinated or aligned across agencies to assist communities in building local capacity to address economic issues, engaging in comprehensive planning, and advancing regional collaboration; and

(f) facilitate the exchange of ideas and strategies to help communities address economic challenges and create sustained economic opportunity.

 . 4.

 .

Consistent with the objectives set forth in this order, the  , in accordance with applicable law, shall conduct outreach to representatives of nonprofit organizations, businesses, labor organizations,   and local government agencies, school districts, elected officials, faith and other community-based organizations, philanthropies, other institutions of local importance, and other interested persons with relevant expertise in the expansion and improvement of efforts to build local capacity to address economic issues in cities and communities. The   will convene an   meeting of interested parties—including mayors and city employees—to share key findings and progress, offer best practices, and promote strategies that have worked in communities participating in the initiative.

 . 5.

Reports.

Within   of this order, and annually thereafter, the   Director shall provide a report to   on the work of the   and its achievements during  , including demonstrable changes in the capacity of local communities to implement their economic development goals and efforts to achieve more efficient and effective use of Federal resources.

 . 6.

General Provisions.

(a) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the  , consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to implement this order. Each agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
