115 SRES 541 IS: Expressing the sense of the Senate that any United States-Saudi Arabia civilian nuclear cooperation agreement must prohibit the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching uranium or separating plutonium on its own territory, in keeping with the strongest possible nonproliferation “gold standard”.
U.S. Senate
2018-06-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
III
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 541
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 12, 2018
Mr. Merkley
(for himself,
Mr. Paul
, and
Mr. Markey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the Senate that any United States-Saudi Arabia civilian nuclear cooperation
agreement must prohibit the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching
uranium or separating plutonium on its own territory, in keeping with the
strongest possible nonproliferation
gold standard
.
Whereas the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow July 1, 1968 (NPT), which is nearing its fiftieth anniversary, obligates non-nuclear weapon states, in Article II,
not to receive the transfer from any transferor whatsoever of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices or of control over such weapons or explosive devices directly, or indirectly; not to manufacture or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices; and not to seek or receive any assistance in the manufacture of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices
: Now, therefore, be it
That it is the sense of the Senate that any United States-Saudi Arabia civilian nuclear cooperation agreement under section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (
42 U.S.C. 2153
), commonly known as a
123 Agreement
, concluded in the future, must prohibit the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching uranium or separating plutonium on its own territory, in keeping with the strongest possible nonproliferation
gold standard
.
