1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Regular Order for Investments of the Federal Reserve Act
or the
ROI of the Federal Reserve Act
.
2.
Amendments to the Federal Reserve Act
The Federal Reserve Act is amended—
(1)
in section 2B (
12 U.S.C. 225b
), by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Additional annual reports
The Board and each Federal reserve bank shall submit to Congress, on an annual basis—
(1)
a report on the status and health of the middle class in the United States, including an analysis of how the policies and programs of the Board and the Federal reserve banks either positively or negatively impacted the growth of the middle class in the United States; and
(2)
a report on the impact of the actions of the Board and the Federal reserve banks on the availability of small business lending and lines of credit since 2000, specifically how the balance sheet of the Federal reserve banks, the lending facilities of the Board, and interest paid on reserves of the Federal reserve banks have impacted business credit and lending.
;
(2)
in section 14(b)(2) (
12 U.S.C. 355(b)(2)
), by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, except that, notwithstanding this paragraph and paragraph (1), on and after the date of enactment of the
Regular Order for Investments of the Federal Reserve Act
, a Federal reserve bank may not—
(A)
purchase a Treasury bill with a term of maturity that is more than 3 years;
(B)
purchase a mortgage-backed security; or
(C)
directly or indirectly hold shares of common stock acquired on or after the date of enactment of the
Regular Order for Investments of the Federal Reserve Act
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
33.
Accounting principles and valuations
(a)
Accounting principles
The accounting principles applicable to any filings made by the Board, the Federal Open Market Committee, or a Federal reserve bank shall be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.
(b)
Valuations
The Board, the Federal Open Market Committee, and each Federal reserve bank shall use mark-to-market valuations for each financial estimate described in a report or audit under the seventh undesignated paragraph of section 10, section 11(a), or section 11B.
.
