1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Pay Our Military Act of 2025
.
2.
Continuing appropriations for members of the Armed Forces
(a)
In general
There are hereby appropriated for fiscal year 2026, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for any period during which interim continuing appropriations or full-year appropriations for fiscal year 2026 are not in effect—
(1)
such sums as are necessary to provide pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, and permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements) to members of the Armed Forces (as defined in section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code), including reserve components thereof, who perform active service during such period, and for payments pursuant to section 156 of
Public Law 97–377
(
42 U.S.C. 402
note);
(2)
such sums as are necessary to provide pay and allowances to the civilian personnel of the Department of Defense (and the Department of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard) whom the Secretary concerned determines are providing support to members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1); and
(3)
such sums as are necessary to provide payment to contractors of the Department of Defense (and the Department of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard) whom the Secretary concerned determines are providing support to members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Interim continuing appropriations
Appropriations made available under subsection (a) may not be obligated or expended by the head of an agency during any period during which continuing appropriations for the purposes for which amounts are made available under subsection (a) are in effect for the agency.
(c)
Charge to future appropriations
Expenditures made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever an Act in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is included is enacted into law.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Active service
The term
active service
has the meaning given such term in section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code.
(2)
Reserve component
The term
reserve component
means a component named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code.
(3)
Secretary concerned
The term
Secretary concerned
means—
(A)
the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters concerning the Department of Defense; and
(B)
the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to matters concerning the Coast Guard.
3.
Termination
Appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act to an agency shall be available until whichever of the following first occurs:
(1)
The enactment into law of appropriations for the agency through September 30, 2026 (including a continuing appropriation) that provides amounts for the purposes for which amounts are made available under section 2.
(2)
The enactment into law of appropriations for the agency through September 30, 2026 (including a continuing appropriation) without any appropriation for such purposes.
(3)
September 30, 2026.
4.
Retroactive effective date
This Act shall take effect as if enacted on September 30, 2025.
