1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
MACV–SOG Congressional Gold Medal Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Military Assistance Command Vietnam–Studies and Observations Group (referred to in this Act as
MACV–SOG
) was established in January 1964 as a dedicated joint military task force to conduct high risk and special activities in the denied areas of North Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.
(2)
MACV–SOG conducted deep-penetration reconnaissance, sabotage, direct-action mission, rescue missions for downed pilots, prisoner-of-war snatches, bomb-damage assessments, wiretaps, psychological operations, and maritime operations against the North Vietnamese.
(3)
MACV–SOG remains one of the most distinguished and elite special operations units in United States military history, setting standards for modern special operations forces. Twelve MACV–SOG operators have been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor.
(4)
Between 1964 and 1972, approximately 1,579 people of the United States are listed as missing or killed while serving with MACV–SOG. This accounts for more than ½ of all Green Beret fatalities during the Vietnam War and more than 50 MACV–SOG team members are still missing in action.
(5)
The innovative tactics of MACV–SOG, integration with indigenous forces, and mastery of direct action and special warfare created a blueprint for modern special operations. Many of the strategies, technologies, and doctrines they pioneered are now standard across elite military units, reinforcing their legacy as a cornerstone of United States special operations history.
(6)
MACV–SOG created battlefield effects that were vastly disproportionate to the small size of the command. The impact of MACV–SOG on the North Vietnamese logistics, troop deployment, and morale was profound. The North Vietnamese diverted entire divisions, as many as 50,000 troops, and numerous other resources away from offensive operations to defend against incursions by MACV–SOG and to internal security operations in North Vietnam.
(7)
These covert operations remained unacknowledged by military leadership and unknown to the United States public, until their existence began to be declassified decades later. This secret war denied MACV–SOG members their just recognition and deprived the families of deceased and wounded operators from knowing the full extent of the sacrifice of their loved ones to the United States.
(8)
MACV–SOG was a joint operations program that included members of the Army Special Forces, Navy SEALs, Force Reconnaissance Marines, the United States Air Force, and the Central Intelligence Agency.
(9)
MACV–SOG teams also relied heavily on the indigenous population, including Montagnards, Chinese Nung, Cambodian, and Vietnamese personnel, along with the 219th Vietnamese Air Force King Bee helicopter pilots, who were actively engaging in the fight against communist forces.
(10)
Twelve Medal of Honor recipients have been recognized for their gallantry during actions while operating with MACV–SOG units.
(11)
A Presidential Unit Citation was issued to MACV–SOG by President George W. Bush in 2001.
(12)
The bravery, sacrifice, and quiet professionalism of MACV–SOG units from 1964 to 1972 reflect favorably upon the highest traditions of the United States military and the United States.
3.
Congressional gold medal
(a)
Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal of appropriate design to the service members of MACV–SOG, in recognition of their bravery and outstanding service in South Vietnam, North Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia during the Vietnam War.
(b)
Design and striking
For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the
Secretary
) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
(c)
Smithsonian Institution
(1)
In general
Following the presentation of the gold medal referred to in subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it will be available for display as appropriate and available for research.
(2)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Smithsonian Institution should make the gold medal awarded pursuant to this Act available for display elsewhere, particularly at appropriate locations and events associated with MACV–SOG.
4.
Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.
5.
Status of medals
(a)
National medal
Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
chapter 51
of title 31, United States Code.
(b)
Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.
6.
Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a)
Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b)
Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
