1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans Prosthetics Advancement and Reform Act
.
2.
Improvements to Department of Veterans Affairs prosthetic and rehabilitative items and service
(a)
In general
Chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1709C
the following new section:
1709D.
Prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services formulary
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a list of prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services, which may be referred to as the
Prosthetic and Rehabilitative Items and Services Formulary
or the
Formulary
, for purposes of furnishing medical services under section 1701(6)(F) of this title pursuant to section 1710 of this title.
(b)
Requirements
(1)
Input
In developing the Formulary, the Secretary shall solicit input from veterans and the public.
(2)
Availability of items
The Secretary shall ensure that all items and services included in the Formulary are available at or through all facilities of the Department.
(3)
Items To be included
In developing the Formulary, the Secretary shall rely on the best available evidence to identify which items and services should be included on the Formulary.
(c)
Publication and communication
(1)
Publication and update
The Secretary shall publish the Formulary on a website of the Department and shall update the Formulary periodically.
(2)
Communication
The Secretary shall communicate to veterans the contents of the Formulary and information about how to appeal decisions regarding the provision of items and services on the Formulary.
(d)
Contracts
The Secretary shall enter into such contracts as the Secretary considers necessary to support the availability of items and services included in the Formulary.
(e)
Training
The Secretary shall ensure the availability of training on the Formulary for clinicians and other staff of the Department.
(f)
Exceptions
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall establish a process for clinicians of the Department to request, prescribe, and furnish prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services that are not included on the Formulary when medically necessary.
(2)
Monitoring of non-Formulary items and services
The Secretary shall monitor requests, prescriptions, and the furnishing of prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services under paragraph (1)—
(A)
to ensure that such items and services are being consistently and appropriately prescribed at all facilities of the Department; and
(B)
to determine whether such items or services should be added to the Formulary.
(g)
Consideration
In developing the Formulary, the Secretary shall consider how the approach of the Pharmacy Benefits Management Services of the Department for formulary management and medication safety can be adapted to support the efficient and effective administration of the Formulary.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1709C the following new item:
1709D. Prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services formulary
.
