1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Psychiatric Hospital Inspection Transparency Act of 2025
.
2.
Release of accreditation surveys regarding hospitals
(a)
In general
Section 1865 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395bb
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)—
(A)
by striking
agency or
and inserting
agency
; and
(B)
by inserting
, or, beginning on or after the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of the
Psychiatric Hospital Inspection Transparency Act of 2025
, a hospital or psychiatric hospital
after
hospice program
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)(A)
Beginning on or after the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, each national accreditation body that conducts an accreditation survey under this section shall include in such survey Form CMS–2567 (or once the successor form described in subparagraph (B) is developed, such successor form), along with such additional information determined appropriate by such body.
(B)
Not later than (to be provided), the Secretary shall work with relevant stakeholders, including national accreditation bodies, to develop the successor form, which shall be a standardized form that meets the needs of such bodies and allows health care consumers to make informed decisions regarding where to receive health care.
.
(b)
Public availability of hospital information
Section 1866 of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395cc
) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(l)
Public availability of psychiatric hospital survey information
(1)
In general
Beginning on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall publish the information determined to be appropriate under paragraph (2) regarding a certification function for a psychiatric hospital (as defined in section 1861(f)) performed pursuant to an agreement described in section 1864 or an accreditation survey regarding a psychiatric hospital conducted under section 1865 on the Care Compare website (or successor website) of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The Secretary shall provide for the timely update of such information so published.
(2)
Information
(A)
In general
For purposes of paragraph (1), subject to subparagraph (B), and not later than (to be provided), in order to allow health care consumers to make informed decisions regarding where to receive health care, the Secretary shall work with relevant stakeholders, including accreditation organizations and psychiatric hospitals, to identify—
(i)
what information is appropriate to disclose; and
(ii)
how such information should be formatted and communicated.
(B)
Requirements
The Secretary shall only publish information pursuant to this subsection if the disclosure of such information—
(i)
is permitted under the Federal regulations (concerning the privacy of individually identifiable health information) promulgated under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (
42 U.S.C. 1320d–2
note); and
(ii)
does not allow any person to determine the identity of—
(I)
a patient of the psychiatric hospital; or
(II)
an individual healthcare provider of such hospital.
.
