1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Rural Health Focus Act
.
2.
CDC Office of Rural Health
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention an office to be known as the Office of Rural Health, to be headed by a director selected by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(b)
Duties and authorities
The duties and authorities of the Director of the Office of Rural Health shall be limited to the following:
(1)
Serving as the primary point of contact in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on matters pertaining to rural health.
(2)
Assisting the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in conducting, coordinating, and promoting research regarding public health issues affecting rural populations, and in disseminating the results of such research.
(3)
Working with all personnel and offices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to develop, refine, coordinate, and promulgate policies, best practices, lessons learned, and innovative, successful programs to improve care and services (including through telehealth) for rural populations.
(4)
Coordinating and supporting rural health research, conducting and supporting educational outreach, and disseminating evidence-based interventions related to health outcomes, access to health care, and lifestyle challenges, to prevent death, disease, injury, and disability, and promote healthy behaviors in rural populations.
(5)
Improving the understanding of the health challenges faced by rural populations.
(6)
Identifying disparities in the availability of health care and public health interventions for rural populations.
(7)
Awarding and administering grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts to provide technical assistance and other activities as necessary to support activities related to improving health and health care in rural areas.
(8)
Coordinating with the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy of the Health Resources and Services Administration, as needed, to facilitate cooperation on rural health initiatives and avoid duplication of efforts.
