1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Jackie Robinson Commemorative Site Act
.
2.
Jackie Robinson Ballpark National Commemorative Site
(a)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(2)
Site
The term
Site
means the Jackie Robinson Ballpark National Commemorative Site designated by subsection (b).
(3)
State
The term
State
means the State of Florida.
(b)
Designation
Jackie Robinson Ballpark in Daytona Beach, Florida, is hereby designated as the Jackie Robinson Ballpark National Commemorative Site.
(c)
African American Civil Rights Network
The Site shall be part of the African American Civil Rights Network established under the African American Civil Rights Network Act of 2017 (
Public Law 115–104
).
(d)
Administration
(1)
Cooperative agreements
The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate public or private entities for interpretative and educational purposes related to the Site.
(2)
Effect of designation
The Site shall not be a unit of the National Park System.
(3)
Limitations
Nothing in this Act—
(A)
authorizes the Secretary to interfere with the rights of any person with respect to private property or any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the State or any political subdivision thereof; or
(B)
authorizes the Secretary to acquire land or interests in land through condemnation or otherwise.
(e)
Special resource study
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall conduct a special resource study of the Site to evaluate the national significance of the Site and determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the Site as a unit of the National Park System.
(2)
Alternatives
The Secretary shall consider alternatives for preservation, protection, and interpretation of the Site by Federal, State, or local government entities, or private and nonprofit organizations.
(3)
Conduct of study
The study shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States Code.
(4)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date on which funds are made available to conduct the study, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that describes the results of the study and any recommendations of the Secretary with respect to the Site.
