1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Uniform Treatment of Custodial Assets Act
.
2.
Accounting treatment of custody activities
(a)
In general
The appropriate Federal banking agency, the National Credit Union Administration (in the case of a credit union), and the Securities and Exchange Commission may not require or take supervisory action that would cause a depository institution, national bank, Federal credit union, State credit union, trust company, or any affiliate thereof—
(1)
except as provided in subsection (b), to include assets held in custody or safekeeping, or the assets associated with a cryptographic key held in custody or safekeeping, as a liability on such institution’s financial statement or balance sheet;
(2)
to hold additional regulatory capital against assets in custody, or safekeeping, or the assets associated with a cryptographic key held in custody or safekeeping, except as necessary to mitigate against operational risks under regulations with general application, as determined by—
(A)
the appropriate Federal banking agency or State bank supervisor;
(B)
the National Credit Union Administration (in the case of a credit union); or
(C)
a State credit union supervisor; or
(3)
to recognize a liability for any obligations related to activities or services performed for digital assets that such institution does not have beneficial ownership of if that liability would exceed the expense recognized in the income statement as a result of the corresponding obligation.
(b)
Exception for commingling
Cash held for a third party by an institution described in subsection (a) may be treated as a liability on such institution’s financial statement or balance sheet if such cash is commingled with the general assets of such institution.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Affiliate
The term
affiliate
has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (
12 U.S.C. 1841
).
(2)
Credit union terms
The terms
Federal credit union
and
State credit union
have the meaning given those terms, respectively, in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1752
).
(3)
FDIA terms
The terms
appropriate Federal banking agency
,
depository institution
, and
State bank supervisor
have the meanings given the terms, respectively, in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (
12 U.S.C. 1813
).
(4)
State credit union supervisor
The term
State credit union supervisor
means a State official described in section 107A(e) of the Federal Credit Union Act (
12 U.S.C. 1757a(e)
).
