1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Election Worker Recruitment and Safety Act
.
2.
Studies of State programs for poll worker recruiting and safety training
(a)
Studies
Subtitle C of title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 20981 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating section 247 as section 248; and
(2)
by inserting after section 246 the following new section:
247.
Ongoing studies of State programs for poll worker recruiting and safety training
(a)
Studies; voluntary considerations
On an ongoing basis, the Commission shall conduct studies of State programs for recruiting poll workers and providing poll workers with safety training in order to identify voluntary considerations that may be used by States to carry out such programs.
(b)
Reports
Not later than December 31, 2024, and every two years thereafter, the Commission shall submit to the States and publish a report on the most recent study conducted under this section, and shall include in the report a description of the voluntary considerations for carrying out the programs studied in the report.
(c)
Poll worker defined
For purposes of this section, the term
poll worker
means any individual who, pursuant to the laws of a State, acts in a nonpartisan capacity as an employee or representative of a unit of the State or local government to aid in the administration of an election at a polling place in the State.
.
(b)
Use of requirements payments for programs implementing voluntary considerations
(1)
Use of payments
Section 251(b)(2) of such Act (
52 U.S.C. 21001(b)(2)
) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
Federal office
and inserting
Federal office, including carrying out programs for recruiting poll workers and providing poll workers with safety training which implement any of the voluntary considerations identified by the Commission in the most recent report submitted under section 247(b),
.
(2)
Effective date
The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2025 and each succeeding fiscal year.
(c)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended—
(1)
by redesignating the item relating to section 247 as relating to section 248; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 246 the following new item:
Sec. 247. Ongoing studies of State programs for poll worker recruiting and safety training.
.
