1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Digital Economy Cybersecurity Advisory Act of 2023
.
2.
Digital Economy and Cybersecurity Board of Advisors
Part A of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (
47 U.S.C. 901 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
106.
Digital Economy and Cybersecurity Board of Advisors
(a)
Establishment
There is established within the NTIA a Digital Economy and Cybersecurity Board of Advisors (in this section referred to as the
Board
).
(b)
Duties
The Board shall provide to the Assistant Secretary recommendations (for implementation by the Assistant Secretary or that the Assistant Secretary could recommend for implementation by other appropriate entities) with respect to the following:
(1)
Technical cybersecurity best practices regarding how to drive economic growth while securing information and communications networks, including how to secure the Border Gateway Protocol used by Federal and non-Federal entities.
(2)
Cybersecurity policies to support the development and implementation of cybersecurity practices with respect to the internet and information and communications networks.
(3)
Policies that promote the security and resilience to cybersecurity incidents of information and communications networks while fostering innovation, including policies that promote secure supply chains for information and communications networks.
(4)
Policies to remove barriers to trust, security, innovation, and commercialization with respect to information and communications networks.
(c)
Members
(1)
Composition
(A)
In general
The Board shall be composed of not fewer than 5, and not more than 25, members appointed by the Assistant Secretary.
(B)
Expertise
Each member of the Board shall have cybersecurity or supply chain security technical expertise, cybersecurity or supply chain security policy expertise, or expertise in running the cybersecurity or supply chain security functions of a business.
(C)
Representation
In appointing members of the Board under subparagraph (A), the Assistant Secretary shall ensure that the members appointed provide a balanced representation of the following:
(i)
Chief cybersecurity officers or other qualified individuals employed in cybersecurity positions, representing both the public and private sectors.
(ii)
Persons who operate or maintain information and communications networks.
(iii)
Vendors that produce or provide equipment used in information and communications networks.
(iv)
Vendors that produce or provide software used in information and communications networks.
(v)
Persons who operate or maintain internet applications.
(D)
Limitation
An individual who is a registered lobbyist under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (
2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.
) may not serve as a member of the Board.
(2)
Terms
(A)
In general
Except as provided in subparagraphs (C) and (D), each member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of a length not to exceed 2 years, to be determined by the Assistant Secretary.
(B)
Reappointment
A member of the Board, including a member appointed to fill a vacancy as provided in subparagraph (D), may be reappointed for 1 or more additional terms by the Assistant Secretary.
(C)
Removal
The Assistant Secretary may remove a member of the Board at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary.
(D)
Vacancy
Any member of the Board appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(3)
Chair
The Chair of the Board shall be the Associate Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration for Policy Analysis and Development.
(4)
Compensation
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(d)
Subcommittees
(1)
In general
Subject to the approval of the Assistant Secretary, as the Assistant Secretary determines necessary for the performance by the Board of the duties described in subsection (b), the Board may establish subcommittees, working groups, standing committees, ad hoc groups, task groups, or other subgroups of the Board.
(2)
Authority
Any subcommittee, working group, standing committee, ad hoc group, task group, or other subgroup of the Board established under paragraph (1) shall report to the Board and may not provide any advice, recommendation, or other work product directly to the Assistant Secretary.
(e)
Termination
Notwithstanding section 1013 of title 5, United States Code, the Board shall terminate on the date that is 4 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
(f)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Border Gateway Protocol
The term
Border Gateway Protocol
means the routing protocol used to exchange network layer reachability information among independently managed networks on the internet.
(2)
Information and communications network
The term
information and communications network
means a network that provides advanced telecommunications capability (as defined in section 706(d) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (
47 U.S.C. 1302(d)
)).
.
