1.
Authority of Secretary of State to designate additional persons eligible to serve as passport acceptance agents
(a)
Authority To designate
The Secretary of State may designate any person described in subsection (b) that meets such other requirements as the Secretary may prescribe under regulations to serve as a passport acceptance agent, unless the Secretary withdraws such authorization on a case-by-case basis with respect to a given person.
(b)
Authorized persons
A person described in this subsection is any of the following:
(1)
An employee of the clerk of any Federal court.
(2)
An employee of the clerk of any State court of record.
(3)
A postal employee at a United States post office that has been selected to accept passport applications.
(4)
An employee of the Department of Defense at a military installation that has been authorized to accept passport applications.
(5)
An employee of a Federal department or agency that has been selected to accept passport applications.
(6)
Any person commissioned or appointed as a notary or notary public or otherwise authorized to perform a notarization under the laws of a State or territorial government.
(7)
Any other person specifically designated by the Secretary.
(c)
Regulations
The Secretary of State shall prescribe or revise such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
2.
Improvements relating to hand-carry courier services for passport applications and passports
(a)
In general
The Secretary of State shall take such steps as may be necessary to—
(1)
facilitate an increase in the number of companies certified to provide hand-carry courier services; and
(2)
increase the daily maximum number of applications for United States passports, by type, that such companies may submit to a passport agency of the Department of State (commonly referred to as
meeting slots
) as part of the hand-carry courier services of such company.
(b)
Hand-Carry courier service defined
In this section, the term
hand-carry courier service
includes—
(1)
the transport of applications for United States passports to a passport agency of the Department of State for processing; and
(2)
the retrieval of newly issued United States passports for delivery, directly or indirectly, to the passport holder.
3.
Revision to date of expiration of United States passports
The Secretary of State shall take such actions as may be necessary to provide for the date of expiration of each United States passport issued or renewed on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act to be the same date as the date of birth of the applicant or holder of the passport.
