1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Expedited Review of Products for GSP Act
.
2.
Expedited product coverage petition process
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States International Trade Commission shall publish in the Federal Register and on a publicly available internet website of the Commission a notice requesting interested parties to submit to the Commission, during the 60-day period beginning on the date of such publication, a petition—
(1)
to add one or more headings or subheadings of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to, or remove one or more such headings or subheadings from, the list of articles that may not be designated as an eligible article for duty-free treatment pursuant to section 503(b) of the Trade Act of 1974 (
19 U.S.C. 2463(b)
); or
(2)
to provide duty-free treatment to one or more headings or subheadings of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule under the Generalized System of Preferences that are—
(A)
not restricted under such section 503(b) from designation as an eligible article; and
(B)
not otherwise designated an eligible article by the President pursuant to section 501 or section 503(a) of such Act (
19 U.S.C. 2461
; 2463(a)).
(b)
Contents of petition
A petition submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be eligible for consideration under the process provided by this section only if such petition includes—
(1)
the name and address of the petitioner;
(2)
the 8-digit subheading level or levels under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule with respect to which the petition is submitted; and
(3)
for a petition submitted pursuant to subsection (a), a certification that the petitioner is an interested party and a brief description of the manner and extent to which the petitioner is a likely beneficiary with respect to the addition or removal of the heading or subheading level concerned.
(c)
Publication of petitions
As soon as practicable after the 60-day period described in subsection (a), and not later than 30 days after the end of such period, the Commission shall publish on a publicly available internet website of the Commission the contents of each petition received.
(d)
Opportunity for public comment
During the 45-day period beginning on the date of the publication of petitions pursuant to subsection (c), the Commission shall publish in the Federal Register and on a publicly available internet website of the Commission a notice requesting members of the public to submit comments to the Commission with respect to the changes sought by the petitions.
(e)
Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on each eligible petition submitted pursuant to the process provided by this section that includes, with respect to the article or articles concerned in each such petition—
(1)
data from the 5 most recent calendar years for which complete information is available on—
(A)
sources of imports;
(B)
values of imports;
(C)
market share of imports (to the extent practical); and
(D)
domestic production (to the extent practical);
(2)
any information on whether the product is used as an input in United States manufacturing; and
(3)
a summary of information provided in the form of comments rebutting or objecting to the petition.
(f)
Authorities
(1)
Procedures
The Commission shall prescribe and publish in the Federal Register and on a publicly available internet website of the Commission all procedures to be complied with by members of the public submitting petitions.
(2)
Judicial review precluded
The exercise of functions under this Act shall not be subject to judicial review.
(g)
Interested party defined
In this section, the term
interested party
has the definition given such term in section 771 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (
19 U.S.C. 1677
), except that an interested party under this section may not include—
(1)
any person described in paragraph (9)(A) of such section, other than a person that is an importer or a business association of importers; or
(2)
any person described in paragraph (9)(B) or (9)(G) of such section.
