1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop the Invasion of Women’s Spaces Act
.
2.
Prohibition
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be provided, directly or indirectly, to an entity if such entity permits an individual to access or use a single-sex facility on the property of such entity that does not correspond to the biological sex of such person, except as provided by subsection (c).
(b)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
Single-sex facility
The term
single-sex facility
means a space intended for the use of one biological sex (male or female), including a—
(A)
restroom;
(B)
locker room; or
(C)
changing room.
(2)
Property
The term
property
means any building, land, or other real property owned, leased, controlled, or occupied by an entity.
(3)
Biological sex
The term
biological sex
means the biological determination as to whether an individual is male or female, as such terms are defined in this section.
(4)
Female
The term
female
means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes eggs for fertilization.
(5)
Male
The term
male
means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes sperm for fertilization.
(6)
Entity
The term
entity
means any private entity, non-Federal Government agency or department, or State, tribal, or local government (including a political subdivision, department, or component thereof).
(c)
Exception
Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to an entity that permits an individual to access a single-sex facility on the property of such entity that does not correspond to the biological sex of such person in the circumstance of—
(1)
emergency medical personnel responding to a medical emergency; or
(2)
a law enforcement officer in active pursuit of a suspect, or as part of an active investigation.
