1.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
The United States, in dealings with allies and adversaries, should engage in diplomacy and international relations that do not undermine the culture or tradition of other nations and peoples, but instead seek to develop working and friendly relationships relative to the interests of both parties with United States citizens chiefly in mind.
(2)
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) operates several
capacity building
programs abroad and uses these programs to spread perverse ideology, that is antithetical to functioning, well-ordered society, across the globe.
(3)
USAID uses United States tax dollars to push radical, leftist ideology abroad, going so far as to undermine foreign governments who do not adhere to the perverse ideology it espouses.
(4)
USAID does not act in the best interest of the United States or its people, nor the foreign nations it purposes to support.
(5)
USAID aims to identify and address
restrictive gender norms and inequalities … to foster the sustainability of results
.
(6)
USAID meddles in local elections, promoting the interests of
women, youth, and other traditionally marginalized groups
ahead of the interests of the other nations’ citizenry.
(7)
The international affairs budget for the fiscal year 2022, passed by the House of Representatives in July 2021, for the United States Department of State and USAID, undid historical precedent by repealing the Helms Amendment that previously restricted United States foreign aid from paying for abortions.
(8)
USAID has provided grants totaling $850,000 to the Bandhu Social Welfare Society for
the rights of gender diverse people
in Bangladesh.
(9)
USAID has provided a $3.7 million grant to Aurat Publication and Information Service Foundation to
provide support for gender equity programs
in Pakistan.
(10)
Eighty-five grants totaling $138.1 million have been provided through USAID to the International Organization for Migration for
humanitarian assistance
to support open borders policy around the globe.
(11)
Eight grants totaling $21.7 million have been provided through USAID to the Soros-backed Tides Center for various
civil society innovation initiatives
.
(12)
USAID has provided a $1 million grant to the United Nations Development Programme for supporting
LGBTI human rights advocacy in Asia
.
(13)
USAID has provided a $370,000 grant to Public Information and Need of Knowledge for promoting
the human rights of LGBTI people in Armenian society
.
(14)
USAID has provided $1.1 million grant to the Pink Human Rights Defender for
empowering the LGBTI community and their allies to advance human rights
.
(15)
USAID has provided a $323,871 grant to Ryan Thomas Kaminski to serve as the United States personal service contractor LGBTI Advisor.
2.
Abolish the United States Agency for International Development
(a)
In general
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, no Federal funds may be made available to carry out any of the functions, duties, or responsibilities assigned or delegated to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (
22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.
) or any other provision of law.
(b)
Rescission of funds
The unobligated balance of each amount made available to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development as of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act is rescinded. Any other assets or liabilities of the Agency as of such day shall be transferred to the Secretary of State.
