1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
College Antisemitism Transparency Act
.
2.
Requiring institutions of higher education to report incidents of antisemitism reported to campus securities or local police agencies
Section 485(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1092(f)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1)(F)—
(A)
in clause (i)—
(i)
in subclause (VIII), by adding
and
after the semicolon; and
(ii)
in subclause (IX), by striking
and
after the semicolon;
(B)
in clause (ii), by striking
and
after the semicolon;
(C)
in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and adding
; and
; and
(D)
by adding at the end the following:
(iv)
of each incident of antisemitism reported to campus security authorities or local police agencies.
;
(2)
in paragraph (6)(A), by adding at the end the following:
(vi)
The term
antisemitism
—
(I)
means a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews; and
(II)
includes rhetorical and physical manifestations of such perceptions that are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals or their property, toward Jewish community institutions, or toward Jewish religious facilities.
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(19)
Each institution described in paragraph (1) shall report the incidents of antisemitism described in clause (iv) of paragraph (1)(F) to the Secretary, and include in such report the response of, and the remedy undertaken by, such institution with respect to such incidents.
.
3.
Requiring federal grant beneficiaries to acknowledge that a violation of united states law relating to discrimination will result in losing all federal funding
In the case of a Federal grant entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the recipient of such a grant shall, during the duration of the grant term, sign an annual statement acknowledging that any intentional violation by the recipient of a Federal law relating to discrimination shall result in a loss of all Federal funding.
