1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Thwarting Regional Adversary Investments Now Act
or the
TRAIN Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
In 2015, Chinese President Xi Jinping issued an official outline of the principles, framework, priorities, and cooperation mechanisms of the Belt and Road Initiative (referred to in this section as the
BRI
).
(2)
Since its inception, more than 140 countries and 32 international organizations have signed BRI cooperation documents with China, including 40 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, 34 countries in Europe and Central Asia, and 24 countries in East Asia and the Pacific.
(3)
Many developing countries do not possess the legal, technological, or intelligence capabilities necessary to properly evaluate the national security, debt sustainability, and other risks posed by related agreements with Chinese entities or the Chinese Government.
(4)
Due to the expanding investments by foreign adversaries in the economic and infrastructure sectors of allied and partner countries, the United States should provide technical training, assistance, and support to evaluate the risks these investments pose, and provide a formal review of the future impact these investments would have, on partner economies.
3.
USAID training for foreign government officials
(a)
In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (referred to in this section as the
Administrator
) shall make available to appropriate government officials of nonadversarial countries in South and Central Asia training in analyzing, assessing, and mitigating any legal or financial risk of accepting investment or lending from a foreign adversary that is in the region.
(b)
Report
(1)
Requirement and elements
Beginning not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act and on an annual basis thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
(A)
an overview of the training provided under subsection (a) during the prior fiscal year; and
(B)
an overview of each lending or legal agreement entered into during the prior fiscal year between a nonadversarial country in South and Central Asia and a foreign adversary that is in the region, including an analysis of any risk posed to the United States by such agreement.
(2)
Form
Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
(c)
Consultation
In carrying out the requirements of subsections (a) and (b), the Administrator shall consult with—
(1)
the Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation;
(2)
the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States;
(3)
the United States Trade Representative;
(4)
the President of the Export–Import Bank of the United States;
(5)
the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs; and
(6)
the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies.
(d)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives;
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;
(C)
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(D)
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(2)
The term
foreign adversary
means a foreign government or individual engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or its allies or to the security and safety of United States citizens.
(3)
The term
nonadversarial country
means a country that is not engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or its allies or to the security and safety of United States citizens.
