1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Our Local Elections Act
or the
POLE Act
.
2.
Findings; sense of Congress
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Holding local elections for public office in odd-numbered years provides greater focus on local candidates and issues.
(2)
Local elections held in odd-numbered years allow voters to make more informed decisions about their local representation.
(3)
Holding all elections in even-numbered years diminishes the attention given to community matters.
(4)
Holding all elections in even-numbered years overcrowds the ballot, hindering the decision-making process for voters.
(5)
Local elected officials directly serve their immediate communities and needs.
(6)
Local leaders played a vital role in the founding of the United States.
(7)
Local governments are at the core of our Nation’s republic.
(b)
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
units of local governments should have the authority to conduct elections for local office in odd-numbered years;
(2)
local elections held in odd-numbered years ensure that local candidates and issues receive greater attention and allow voters to make well-informed choices; and
(3)
the most effective form of representation is attained through local governance.
3.
Prohibiting provision of Federal funds for election administration for States not permitting local governments to hold elections for local office in odd-numbered years
(a)
Prohibition
Title IX of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (
52 U.S.C. 21141 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
907.
Prohibiting provision of Federal funds for election administration for States not permitting local governments to hold elections for local office in odd-numbered years
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be provided under this Act or any other Act to administer an election for Federal, State, or local office held in a State which does not have in effect a law which permits units of local government in the State to hold elections for local office in odd-numbered years.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title IX the following:
Sec. 907. Prohibiting provision of Federal funds for election administration for States not permitting local governments to hold elections for local office in odd-numbered years
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2026 and each succeeding fiscal year.
