1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Equal Access to Specialty Care Everywhere Act of 2024
or the
EASE Act of 2024
.
2.
Requiring the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test a model to improve access to specialty health services for certain Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries
Section 1115A of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1315a
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A), in the third sentence, by inserting
, and shall include the model described in subparagraph (B)(xxviii)
before the period at the end; and
(B)
in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end the following new clause:
(xxviii)
The Specialty Health Care Services Access Model described in subsection (h).
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Specialty Health Care Services Access Model
(1)
In general
For purposes of subsection (b)(2)(B)(xxviii), the Specialty Health Care Services Access Model described in this subsection is a model under which the Secretary enters into an agreement one or more provider networks selected in accordance with paragraph (2) for purposes of furnishing specialty health care services (as specified by the Secretary) to eligible individuals through the use of digital modalities (such as telehealth and other remote technologies) in coordination with such individuals’ primary care providers.
(2)
Selection of provider networks
The Secretary shall select one or more networks of providers for purposes of furnishing services under the model described in paragraph (1). Any such network so selected shall—
(A)
be comprised of at least 50 Federally qualified health centers, rural health clinics, or community health clinics;
(B)
be a nonprofit entity under
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(C)
have an established record of supporting the delivery of health care and addressing social determinants of health in underserved communities in multiple regions throughout the country; and
(D)
agree to support public health and serve as a national clinical research network, including by conducting research with respect to both insured and uninsured individuals.
(3)
Eligible individual defined
For purposes of this subsection, the term
eligible individual
means an individual—
(A)
entitled to benefits under part A of title XVIII, enrolled under part B of such title, or enrolled under a State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX; and
(B)
located in a rural or underserved area (as specified by the Secretary).
.
