1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stopping PRC Environmental Exploitation and Degradation Act
or the
SPEED Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The Department of State report titled
China’s Environment Abuses
states that the People’s Republic of China (referred to as the
PRC
),
threatens the global economy and global health by unsustainably exploiting natural resources and exporting its willful disregard for the environment through its One Belt, One Road initiative
.
(2)
During the past 20 years, the People’s Republic of China has significantly increased its economic and business activities in sub-Saharan Africa. While legal systems across countries vary, business entities are generally bound by the laws of their home country, the host country, and international law. Chinese business entities are notorious for consciously violating the laws of their host countries and international law.
(3)
PRC and Chinese private sector companies (hereafter referred to as
PSCs
) destructive, and at times illegal, mining, drilling, logging, and fishing practices in sub-Saharan Africa cause high levels of concern and harm across sub-Saharan Africa. Many PRC-linked entities and Chinese PSCs in sub-Saharan Africa operate with little regard for ecology, public health, and the well-being of local residents and wildlife.
(4)
The World Wildlife Fund has found that One Belt, One Road corridors overlap with, and thus may adversely affect, over 1,700 key biodiversity areas or important bird areas and the habitat ranges of 265 threatened species.
(5)
Adverse environmental, ecological, and public health incidents connected to lax PRC-linked entities and PSCs business practices have been reported throughout sub-Saharan Africa including, but not limited to, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
(6)
As early as 2014, in Ethiopia’s Somali
Ogaden
region, reports of a deadly disease spread across the communities surrounding a PRC-linked natural gas plant. Local healthcare professionals suspect that the illness is caused by hazardous chemical waste from the PRC-linked gas drilling operation that poisoned the drinking water supply. The illness results in the yellowing of the eyes, bleeding from the nose and mouth, a fever, and then death. Over 2,000 deaths suspected of being attributable to this waste have been reported according to Voice of America.
(7)
Beginning in 2016, multiple Gambian communities have faced adverse environmental and economic impacts from fishmeal processing factories owned partially or fully by PRC citizen investors. Golden Lead in Gunjur, JXYG in Kartong, and Nessim in Sanyang are accused of illegal, unreported, and unregulated (
IUU
) fishing practices, discharging untreated waste into waterways and nearby community gardens, and emitting odors. Overfishing leads to dumping of dead fish which then wash onto beaches, disrupting the local fish market economy and threatening a critical food supply for Gambians. Locals also report that contaminated wastewater from the fishmeal factories is dumped into freshwater sources, allowing a harmful algae bloom to spread turning the water red.
(8)
The involvement of Chinese nationals in illegal, small-scale gold mining in Ghana, known as
galamsey
, is threatening Ghana’s cocoa industry and subsistence farming. Between 2008 and 2016 an estimated 50,000 PRC citizens migrated to Ghana to work in the mining sector. The PRC has been accused of encouraging the goldrush migration to Ghana and has been unhelpful in Ghana’s efforts to crack down on the harmful, illegal mining by PRC citizens. These miners are shifting techniques to sophisticated imported machinery supplied by PRC citizen investors and introducing alternative gold extraction processes, such as cyanide washing, which have had devastating environment impacts especially to Ghana’s waterways and cocoa farms. Ghana’s National Food Buffer Stock Company Limited, the state-owned company responsible for managing the government’s emergency food security reserves, estimates that galamsey activities have negatively affected or destroyed more than 19,000 hectares (46,950 acres) of cocoa plantations.
(9)
In 2021, local riverine communities in the Democratic Republic of Congo accused a PRC mining company of polluting the Aruwimi River, an important tributary of the Congo River. Locals reported water discolored by waste disposal. The incident sparked an increase in sickness, and dead fish began floating in the river, which locals consumed. The PRC mining firm planned to remediate the issue by relocating 10,000 people away from their communities and livelihoods.
(10)
The PRC's involvement in fisheries can threaten Africa's sovereignty over natural resources through beneficial ownership agreements, coercive licensing arrangements, and investments in ports, fishmeal, and cold storage facilities. PRC-owned vessels frequently reflag to other nations, obscuring ownership and responsibility for vessels’ actions.
3.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to—
(1)
ensure that United States-registered corporate entities abide by United States, host country, and international environmental protection and labor laws and regulatory guidelines;
(2)
oppose the actions of PRC-linked entities and PSCs that do not abide by host country and international environmental protection and labor laws in their business dealings in sub-Saharan Africa and that instead aim to exploit the natural resource endowments of these countries, irrespective of the damage done to local communities; and
(3)
work with willing African governments to encourage development of a mitigation strategy for the negative environmental, ecological and public health impact of PRC-linked entities and Chinese PSCs, including holding violators accountable.
4.
Strategy and suitability for listing
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, in consultation with the heads of other Federal departments and agencies as applicable, shall submit to Congress a strategy to partner with willing African countries to develop mitigation strategies for the negative environmental impact of PRC-linked and PSC investments across Africa. Such a strategy shall—
(1)
outline major founded instances of adverse environmental, ecological, and public health incidents that can be linked to the People’s Republic of China and Chinese PSC’s adverse business practices in sub-Saharan Africa;
(2)
identify specific sub-Saharan African countries where the opportunity is greatest for increased collaboration on environmental remediation and ecological restoration to address and mitigate PRC-linked entities and Chinese PSCs environmental degradation; and
(3)
include a plan detailing how increased United States technical assistance would assist the countries identified in paragraph (2) in combating the environmental degradation caused by PRC-linked entities and Chinese PSCs to positively impact the most at-risk communities.
5.
Authorization of imposition of sanctions
(a)
In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President may impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President determines, based on credible evidence and consistent with United States foreign policy interests, is responsible for a severe, adverse environmental, ecological, or public health incident in sub-Saharan Africa and is—
(1)
an entity that is headquartered in a country of concern or is organized under the laws of a country of concern; or
(2)
an individual who is—
(A)
a citizen of a country of concern;
(B)
an official or employee of a country of concern; or
(C)
a foreign employee of an entity described in paragraph (1).
(b)
Sanctions described
The sanctions described in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Inadmissibility to united states
In the case of a foreign person who is an individual—
(A)
ineligibility to receive a visa to enter the United States or to be admitted to the United States; or
(B)
if the individual has been issued a visa or other documentation, revocation, thereof, in accordance with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1201(i)
), of the visa or other documentation.
(2)
Blocking of property
(A)
In general
The blocking, in accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.
), of all transactions in all property and interests in property of a foreign person if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(B)
Inapplicability of national emergency requirement
The requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1701
) shall not apply for purposes of this section.
(c)
Exception relating to the provision of humanitarian assistance
Sanctions under this section may not be imposed with respect to transactions or the facilitation of transactions for—
(1)
the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices;
(2)
the provision of humanitarian assistance;
(3)
financial transactions relating to humanitarian assistance; or
(4)
transporting goods or services that are necessary to carry out operations relating to humanitarian assistance.
(d)
Exception To comply with united nations headquarters agreement and law enforcement objectives
Sanctions under subsection (b)(1) shall not apply to an individual if admitting the individual into the United States would further important law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable international obligations of the United States.
(e)
Exceptions for intelligence activities
Sanctions under this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (
50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.
) or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(f)
Enforcement of blocking of property
A person that knowingly violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of a sanction described in subsection (b)(2) that is imposed by the President or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out such a sanction shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (
50 U.S.C. 1705
) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
(g)
Waiver
The President may waive the application of subsection (b) if the President—
(1)
determines that such a waiver is in the national interests of the United States; and
(2)
not more than 15 days after the waiver takes effect, notifies Congress of the waiver and the reason for the waiver.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Country of concern
The term
country of concern
has the meaning given to the term
foreign country of concern
in section 231.102 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
Foreign person
The term
foreign person
means an individual or entity that is not a United States person.
(3)
United States person
The term
United States person
means—
(A)
a United States citizen;
(B)
a permanent resident alien of the United States;
(C)
an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
(D)
a person in the United States.
6.
Sunset
This Act shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
