1.
Short title
(a)
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Explosive Ordnance Disposal Incentive Pay Improvement Act of 2024
.
2.
Improvements to incentive pay for explosive ordnance disposal duty
(a)
Establishment
Subchapter I of
Chapter 5
of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting, after section 301e, the following new section:
301f.
Incentive pay: explosive ordnance disposal duty
(a)
Eligibility
(1)
Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a regular member of a covered armed force is entitled to continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay in the amount specified in subsection (b)(1) if the member—
(A)
is entitled to basic pay;
(B)
holds (or is in training leading to) an explosive ordnance disposal duty designator; and
(C)
is in and remains in explosive ordnance disposal duty on a career basis.
(2)
Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a member of a covered armed force who is entitled to basic pay but is not entitled to continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under paragraph (1) is entitled to explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay in the amount prescribed pursuant to subsection (b)(2) for any period during which such member performs explosive ordnance disposal duty under orders.
(b)
Rates
(1)
Continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under subsection (a)(1) shall be in the following amounts:
Years of explosive ordnance disposal
duty (including training):
Monthly Rate
2 or fewer
$125
Over 2
$156
Over 3
$188
Over 4
$206
Over 6
$650
Over 8
$800
Over 10
$1,000
Over 17
$840
Over 22
$585
Over 24
$385
Over 25
$250
(2)
Explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under subsection (a)(2)—
(A)
shall be in amounts prescribed by the Secretary of Defense;
(B)
may not, for any month, exceed the maximum amount specified in paragraph (1); and
(C)
may not be less per day than the amount under subsection (d).
(c)
Computation of years
Years of explosive ordnance disposal duty by a member shall be computed beginning with the effective date of the initial order to such member to perform explosive ordnance disposal duty.
(d)
Applicability to certain duty in the reserve components
Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense and to the extent provided for by appropriations, for each day that a member of the reserve component of a covered armed force who is entitled to compensation under section 206 of this title, performs, under orders, explosive ordnance disposal duty, such member is eligible for an increase in compensation equal to one-thirtieth of the continuous monthly incentive pay under subsection (b)(1) for a member of corresponding years of service entitled to basic pay.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered armed force
means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
(2)
The term
explosive ordnance disposal
has the meaning given such term in section 2284 of title 10.
(3)
The term
explosive ordnance disposal duty
means duty performed by a member of a covered armed force, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, in explosive ordnance disposal.
.
(b)
Effective date
Section 301f of title 37, United States Code, added by this section, shall take effect on the day that is six months after the date of the enactment of this Act and apply to explosive ordnance disposal duty performed on or after such day.
