1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Wings for Veterans Act
.
2.
Pilot program for flight training
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a pilot program (in this Act referred to as the
Program
) to award grants to not more than 10 covered flight schools to provide flight training to eligible veterans.
(b)
Grant amount
Each grant awarded under this section may not exceed $500,000.
(c)
Eligible uses
A covered flight school may only use a grant awarded under the Program for the following:
(1)
The provision of guidance and pilot training services, including tuition and flight training fees for veterans enrolled in such flight school and any training required for eligible veterans to earn the following certificates and ratings issued under part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations:
(A)
A private pilot certificate.
(B)
A commercial pilot certificate.
(C)
A certified flight instructor certificate.
(D)
A certified flight instructor instrument certificate.
(E)
An instrument rating.
(F)
A multiengine rating.
(2)
The provision of books, training materials, and equipment to support pilot training activities and related education for veterans enrolled in such flight school.
(3)
Administrative costs related to providing the services described in this subsection, not to exceed 10 percent of the amount awarded.
(d)
Applications To receive flight training
A covered flight school receiving a grant under the Program shall be responsible for—
(1)
soliciting applications for flight training from eligible veterans;
(2)
reviewing such applications to verify that applicants meet the definition of eligible veteran; and
(3)
selecting from such applications eligible veterans to receive flight training and enrolling such veterans in appropriate flight training programs.
(e)
Termination
The Program shall terminate 18 months after the date on which the Program is established under subsection (a).
(f)
Reports
(1)
Reports to Secretary
Each covered flight school that receives a grant under the Program shall periodically submit to the Secretary a report describing the use of grant funds and include in such report documentation of training completed by veterans enrolled in such flight school under the Program.
(2)
Report to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the Program terminates under subsection (e), the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall submit to the Committees on Education and Labor, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives, a report that includes a description of the following:
(A)
How the improvement of the consistency and eligibility for assistance under
chapter 33
of title 38, United States Code, may used to provide flight training to veterans.
(B)
The costs associated with obtaining a commercial pilot certificate and ways in which such costs could be reduced for veterans seeking a commercial pilot certificate.
(C)
Ways to increase cooperation between the Department of Transportation and veterans service organizations to recruit, screen, and train veterans as commercial pilots.
(D)
Ways to improve the availability of Federal student loans to veterans to use for attending vocational flight school.
(E)
A model program under which States and domestic commercial airlines provide assistance to veterans to obtain the flight training necessary to obtain a commercial pilot certificate with a multiengine rating.
(F)
Rates of successful completion of certification by veterans enrolled in a covered flight school under the Program.
(G)
Challenges faced by such veterans while receiving flight training.
(g)
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Covered flight school
The term
covered flight school
means a flight school that holds a pilot school certificate under part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
Eligible veteran
The term
eligible veteran
means an individual who—
(A)
served in the active military, naval, air, or space service, and who was discharged or released from such service with an honorable discharge;
(B)
meets regulatory requirements set forth by the Secretary to obtain at least a second class medical certificate;
(C)
certifies an intent to pursue a career as a commercial pilot; and
(D)
meets any other requirements for eligibility as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
