1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Heartland Emergency Assistance Relief from Tax Act of 2024
or the
HEART Act of 2024
.
2.
Extension of rules for treatment of certain disaster-related personal casualty losses
For purposes of applying section 304(b) of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020, section 301 of such Act shall be applied by substituting
the HEART Act of 2024
for
this Act
each place it appears.
3.
Exclusion from gross income for compensation for losses or damages resulting from certain severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes
(a)
In general
Part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after section 139I the following new section:
139J.
Compensation for losses or damages resulting from certain severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes
(a)
In general
Gross income shall not include any amount received by an individual as a qualified severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes relief payment.
(b)
Qualified severe storms, straight-Line winds, and tornadoes relief payment
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
qualified severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes relief payment
means any amount received by or on behalf of an individual as compensation for losses, expenses, or damages (including compensation for additional living expenses, lost wages (other than compensation for lost wages paid by the employer which would have otherwise paid such wages), personal injury, death, or emotional distress) incurred as a result of a qualified severe storms, straight-line winds, or tornadoes disaster, but only to the extent the losses, expenses, or damages compensated by such payment are not compensated for by insurance or otherwise.
(2)
Qualified severe storms, straight line winds, or tornadoes disaster
The term
qualified severe storms, straight lines, or tornado disaster
means any federally declared disaster (as defined in
section 165(i)(5)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) declared, after December 31, 2023, as a result severe storms, straight-line winds, or tornadoes.
(c)
Denial of double benefit
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter—
(1)
no deduction or credit shall be allowed (to the person for whose benefit a qualified severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes relief payment is made) for, or by reason of, any expenditure to the extent of the amount excluded under this section with respect to such expenditure, and
(2)
no increase in the basis or adjusted basis of any property shall result from any amount excluded under this subsection with respect to such property.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 139I the following new item:
Sec. 139J. Compensation for losses or damages resulting from certain severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts received after December 31, 2023.
