That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2024, and for other purposes, namely:
I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
Processing, Research and Marketing
Office of the Secretary
For an additional amount for
Office of the Secretary
, $14,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to losses of revenue, quality or production losses of crops (including milk, on-farm stored commodities, crops prevented from planting in 2023, and harvested adulterated wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a consequence of droughts, wildfires, hurricanes, floods, derechos, excessive heat, tornadoes, winter storms, freeze, including a polar vortex, smoke exposure, and excessive moisture occurring in calendar year 2023 under such terms and conditions as determined by the Secretary:
Provided
, That of the amounts provided under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall use up to $1,500,000,000 to provide assistance to producers of livestock, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, for losses incurred (including with respect to livestock relocation, shelter-in-place, and feed crop losses) during calendar year 2023 due to hurricanes, drought, wildfires, floods, or other natural disasters:
Provided further,
That, with respect to smoke tainted wine grapes, the loss (including a quality loss) of such crop during the coverage period due to wildfire, as determined by the Secretary, is considered a qualified loss:
Provided further
, That losses due to drought shall only be eligible under this heading in this Act if any area within the county in which the loss occurs was rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having a D2 (Severe Drought) for eight consecutive weeks or a D3 (Extreme Drought) or higher level of drought intensity during the applicable calendar years:
Provided further
, That at the election of a processor eligible for a loan under section 156 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (
7 U.S.C. 7272
) or a cooperative processor of dairy, the Secretary shall make payments for losses in 2023 to such processors (to be paid to producer members, as determined by such processors) in lieu of payments to producers and under the same terms and conditions as payments made to processors pursuant to title I of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (
Public Law 116–20
) under the heading
Department of Agriculture—Agricultural Programs—Processing, Research and Marketing—Office of the Secretary
, as last amended by section 791(c) of title VII of division B of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (
Public Law 116–94
):
Provided further
, That notwithstanding section 760.1503(j) of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in the event that a processor described in the preceding proviso does not elect to receive payments under such clause, the Secretary shall make direct payments to producers under this heading in this Act:
Provided further
, That of the amounts provided under this heading in this Act, not more than one percent of the funds provided herein may be used for administrative costs, including for streamlining the application process and easing the burden on county office employees, to carry out the matter under this heading in this Act:
Provided further
, That, except as otherwise provided under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall impose payment limitations consistent with section 760.1507 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act):
Provided further
, That, in the case of specialty crops or high value crops, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall impose payment limitations consistent with section 760.1507(a)(2) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2019):
Provided further
, That, with respect to the payment limitations described under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall apply separate payment limits for each of 2022 and 2023:
Provided further
, That the total amount of payments received under this heading in this Act and applicable policies of crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (
7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.
) or the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (
7 U.S.C. 7333
) (minus any premiums or fees paid for such coverages) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary:
Provided further
, That the total amount of payments received under this heading in this Act for producers who did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance for an insurable commodity for the applicable crop year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (
7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.
) for the crop incurring the losses or did not file the required paperwork and pay the service fee by the applicable State filing deadline for a noninsurable commodity for the applicable crop year under NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the loss as determined by the Secretary:
Provided further
, That producers receiving payments under this heading in this Act, as determined by the Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop insurance where crop insurance is available for the next two available crop years and producers receiving payments under this heading in this Act shall be required to purchase coverage under NAP where crop insurance is not available in the next two available crop years, as determined by the Secretary:
Provided further
, That the Secretary shall administer payments under this heading in this Act simultaneously for producers regardless of type of qualified loss.
II
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
201.
Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.
202.
No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
203.
Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2024.
204.
Each amount provided by this Act is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2024, and section 1(e) of H. Res. 1151 (117th Congress), as engrossed in the House of Representatives on June 8, 2022.
This Act may be cited as the
Agriculture Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024
.
