1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2023
.
2.
Extension of rules for treatment of certain disaster-related personal casualty losses
For purposes of applying section 304(b) of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020, section 301 of such Act shall be applied by substituting
the Federal Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2023
for
this Act
each place it appears.
3.
Exclusion from gross income for compensation for losses or damages resulting from certain wildfires
(a)
In general
For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, gross income shall not include any amount received by an individual as a qualified wildfire relief payment.
(b)
Qualified wildfire relief payment
For purposes of this section—
(1)
In general
The term
qualified wildfire relief payment
means any amount received by or on behalf of an individual as compensation for expenses or losses incurred as a result of a qualified wildfire disaster, but only to the extent any expense or loss compensated by such payment is not compensated for by insurance or otherwise.
(2)
Qualified wildfire disaster
The term
qualified wildfire disaster
means any federally declared disaster (as defined in
section 165(i)(5)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) declared, after December 31, 2014, as a result any forest or range fire.
(c)
Denial of double benefit
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986—
(1)
no deduction or credit shall be allowed (to the person for whose benefit a qualified wildfire relief payment is made) for, or by reason of, any expenditure to the extent of the amount excluded under this section with respect to such expenditure, and
(2)
no increase in the basis or adjusted basis of any property shall result from any amount excluded under this subsection with respect to such property.
(d)
Limitation on application
This section shall only apply to qualified wildfire relief payments received by the individual during taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019, and before January 1, 2026.
4.
East Palestine disaster relief payments
(a)
Disaster relief payments to victims of East Palestine train derailment
East Palestine train derailment payments shall be treated as qualified disaster relief payments for purposes of
section 139(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b)
East Palestine trail derailment payments
For purposes of this section, the term
East Palestine train derailment payment
means any amount received by or on behalf of an individual as compensation for loss, damages, expenses, loss in real property value, closing costs with respect to real property (including realtor commissions), or inconvenience (including access to real property) resulting from the East Palestine train derailment if such amount was provided by—
(1)
a Federal, State, or local government agency,
(2)
Norfolk Southern Railway, or
(3)
any subsidiary, insurer, or agent of Norfolk Southern Railway or any related person.
(c)
Train derailment
For purposes of this section, the term
East Palestine train derailment
means the derailment of a train in East Palestine, Ohio, on February 3, 2023.
(d)
Effective date
This subsection shall apply to amounts received on or after February 3, 2023.
