1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Grant Transparency Act of 2023
.
2.
Notices of funding opportunity transparency
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
—
(A)
has the meaning given the term
Executive agency
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; and
(B)
does not include the Government Accountability Office.
(2)
Competitive grant
The term
competitive grant
means a discretionary award (as defined in section 200.1 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations) awarded by an agency—
(A)
through a grant agreement or cooperative agreement under which the agency makes payment in cash or in kind to a recipient to carry out a public purpose authorized by law; and
(B)
the recipient of which is selected from a pool of applicants through the use of merit-based selection procedures for the purpose of allocating funds authorized under a grant program of the agency.
(3)
Evaluation or selection criteria
The term
evaluation or selection criteria
means standards or principles for judging, evaluating, or selecting an application for a competitive grant.
(4)
Notice of funding opportunity
The term
notice of funding opportunity
has the meaning given the term in section 200.1 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations.
(5)
Rating system
The term
rating system
—
(A)
means a system of evaluation of competitive grant applications to determine how such applications advance through the selection process; and
(B)
includes—
(i)
a merit criteria rating rubric;
(ii)
an evaluation of merit criteria;
(iii)
a methodology to evaluate and rate based on a point scale; and
(iv)
an evaluation to determine whether a competitive grant application meets evaluation or selection criteria.
(b)
Transparency requirements
Each notice of funding opportunity issued by an agency for a competitive grant shall include—
(1)
a description of any rating system and evaluation and selection criteria the agency uses to assess applications for the competitive grant;
(2)
a statement of whether the agency uses a weighted scoring method and a description of any weighted scoring method the agency uses for the competitive grant, including the amount by which the agency weights each criterion; and
(3)
any other qualitative or quantitative merit-based approach the agency uses to evaluate an application for the competitive grant.
(c)
Rule of construction
With respect to a particular competitive grant, nothing in this Act shall be construed to supersede any requirement with respect to a notice of funding opportunity for the competitive grant in a law that authorizes the competitive grant.
(d)
No additional funds
No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this Act.
(e)
Effective date
(1)
In general
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(2)
No retroactive effect
This Act shall not apply to a notice of funding opportunity issued before the date of enactment of this Act.
