1.
Short Title
This Act may be cited as the
HAMAS Terrorist Fugitive Act
.
2.
Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1)
the Attorney General should seek to prosecute the leadership of HAMAS and Palestine Islamic Jihad, United States Designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations, as well as affiliated terrorists for the terrorist attack committed against Israel on October 7, 2023, under United States statutory prohibitions against the foreign murder of United States nationals (
18 U.S.C. 1119
,
18 U.S.C. 2332
), hostage taking (
18 U.S.C. 1203
) for taking five United States citizens hostage and holding them in Gaza along with hostages from 24 other countries, war crimes (
18 U.S.C. 2441
), and any other section of the criminal code as appropriate; and
(2)
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secretary of State should make use of their respective authorities to offer rewards for information leading to the arrest or conviction of members of HAMAS, Palestine Islamic Jihad, and affiliated terrorists.
3.
Policy Statement
It is the policy of the United States to bring to justice the leadership of HAMAS and Palestine Islamic Jihad as well as affiliated terrorists for their role in the terrorist attack committed against Israel on October 7, 2023, and its aftermath, including the death of United States citizens and the holding of United States citizens hostage.
4.
Reward for HAMAS Arrest and Conviction
(a)
FBI Most Wanted List
The Director of the Federal Bureau of Intelligence shall add each covered terrorist leader to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Most Wanted terrorism list and offer a reward for information leading to the arrest or conviction of each such covered terrorist leader.
(b)
Department of State Rewards for Justice Program
The Secretary of State shall offer a reward for information leading to the arrest or conviction of a covered terrorist leader by exercising the authority under section 36 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (
22 U.S.C. 2708
).
(c)
Duplication
The Secretary of State shall coordinate with the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to ensure that a duplicate reward is not paid under their respective rewards programs.
(d)
Covered Terrorist Leaders
For the purpose of this section, a covered terrorist leader shall include any of the following:
(1)
Ismail Haniyeh.
(2)
Yahya Al Sinwar.
(3)
Mohammed Deif.
(4)
Khaled Mashal.
(5)
Mahmoud al-Zahar.
(6)
Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook.
(7)
Ziyard al-Nakhalah.
(8)
Nasser Abu Sharif.
(9)
Jamil Yusuf Ahmad ’Aliyan.
(10)
Akram al-Ajouri.
(11)
Mu’ad Ibrahim Muhammed Rashid al-Atili.
