1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Homeward Bound Act
.
2.
Delayed application of rule relating to importing dogs for members of the Armed Forces, diplomats serving in a foreign country, and individuals with service animals
(a)
In general
The rule entitled
Control of Communicable Diseases; Foreign Quarantine: Importation of Dogs and Cats
published by the Department of Health and Human Services in the Federal Register on May 13, 2024, (89 Fed. Reg. 41726 et seq.) shall not be applied until the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to—
(1)
any covered individual seeking to import a dog from a low-risk country for rabies (as defined by the Secretary); and
(2)
any individual seeking to import a service animal from such a low-risk country.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered individual
(A)
In general
The term
covered individual
means—
(i)
a member of the Armed Forces who is stationed in a foreign country; and
(ii)
any individual serving as personnel at a United States diplomatic or consular post.
(B)
Inclusion
Such term includes a family member stationed in the same location as the individual described in clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A).
(2)
Service animal
The term
service animal
has the meaning given such term in part 37.3 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).
3.
Revising rule relating to importing dogs
Not later than 10 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall revise part 71 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations—
(1)
to allow individuals to import into the United States, at any port of entry, from a low-risk country for rabies (as defined by the Secretary), dogs of any age; and
(2)
in the case of an individual seeking to import a dog from such a country that was born before the date of the enactment of this Act, to not require such dog to be microchipped as a condition on that importation.
4.
Rule of construction regarding authority of Secretary of Agriculture
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to enforce any provision of law over which the Secretary of Agriculture has jurisdiction.
