1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
We Want Our Healthcare Money Back Act of 2024
.
2.
Report on Medicare and Medicaid fraud
(a)
Report
Not later than 3 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 3 months thereafter until the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the
Inspector General
) shall submit a report on Medicare and Medicaid fraud, including the information described in subsection (b), to the following committees:
(1)
The Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.
(2)
The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
(3)
The Committee on Finance of the Senate.
(4)
The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
(b)
Information described
For purposes of subsection (a), the information described in this subsection is, with respect to the 3-month period ending on the date that is 1 month before the date on which the report under such subsection is required to be submitted—
(1)
the number of investigations of Medicare and Medicaid fraud conducted by the Inspector General during such period;
(2)
the number of criminal prosecutions and civil actions alleging Medicare and Medicaid fraud commenced during such period as a result of an investigation conducted by the Inspector General;
(3)
the dollar amount of fraud alleged in each such criminal prosecution and civil action;
(4)
the charges alleged in each such criminal prosecution and civil action; and
(5)
the number of individuals and entities excluded from participating in any Federal health care program (as such term is defined in section 1128B of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1320a–7b
)) during such period due to a criminal conviction or other act related to Medicare and Medicaid fraud.
(c)
Medicare and Medicaid fraud defined
In this section, the term
Medicare and Medicaid fraud
means fraud related to the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.
) or the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1306 et seq.
).
(d)
No additional funds authorized
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, and this section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services.
