1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Promoting Free and Fair Elections Act of 2023
.
2.
Federal agency involvement in voter registration activities
(a)
Clarification of Federal agency involvement in voter registration activities
Executive Order 14019 (86 Fed. Reg. 13623; relating to promoting access to voting) shall have no force or effect, and any contract or arrangement entered into by an agency to carry out activities pursuant to sections 3 and 4 of such Executive order shall be abrogated.
(b)
Agreements with nongovernmental organizations
None of the funds made available for the salaries and expenses of an agency may be used to solicit or enter into an agreement with a nongovernmental organization to conduct voter registration or voter mobilization activities, including registering voters or providing any person with voter registration materials, absentee or vote-by-mail ballot applications, voting instructions, or candidate-related information, on the property or website of the agency.
(c)
Report on prior voter registration and mobilization activities
Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the head of each agency shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing the activities carried out by the agency pursuant to sections 3 and 4 of Executive Order 14019 (86 Fed. Reg. 13623).
(d)
Prohibiting voter registration and mobilization in Federal work-Study programs
Section 443(b)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 1087–53(b)(1)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
;
(2)
by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E); and
(3)
by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
(D)
does not involve registering or mobilizing voters on or off the campus of the institution; and
.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agency
The term
agency
has the meaning given the term in section 3502(1) of title 44, United States Code.
(2)
Appropriate congressional committees
The term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate;
(B)
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
(C)
the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives; and
(D)
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
