1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safeguarding Syria Sanctions Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
On February 6, 2023, a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck northwest Syria and central-southern Türkiye.
(2)
On February 9, 2023, the Department of the Treasury issued Syria General License 23, temporarily authorizing direct transactions with the Assad regime related to earthquake relief efforts for 180 days.
(3)
Prior to the earthquake, pre-existing general licenses enabled assistance to the Syrian people by authorizing robust exemptions for humanitarian assistance carried out by the United Nations and nongovernmental organizations. Such pre-existing licenses are set to remain in effect past the expiration of General License 23.
(4)
Since the Department of the Treasury issued Syria General License 23, numerous reports have documented extensive efforts by the Assad regime, and its Russian and Iranian backers, to leverage the earthquake response for their gain.
(5)
The Iranian regime and its proxies have reportedly smuggled lethal weapons into Syria to target United States forces under the guise of earthquake relief.
3.
Statement of policy
It is the policy of the United States to actively oppose recognition or normalization of relations by other governments with any Government of Syria, including by fully implementing the mandatory primary and secondary sanctions under the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019 (
22 U.S.C. 8791
note) and Executive Order 13894 (84 Fed. Reg. 55851; relating to blocking property and suspending entry of certain persons contributing to the situation in Syria) to deter any form of investment, loan, transaction, or reconstruction in areas under the control of the Assad regime, or its Russian and Iranian backers, or that may otherwise benefit the Assad regime.
4.
Limitations on license authorities under the Syria sanctions regulations
(a)
In general
No general license may be issued, renewed, or otherwise extended by the Department of Treasury on or after the date of the enactment of this Act under the Syria Sanctions Regulations to respond to the earthquake that struck northwest Syria on February 6, 2023.
(b)
Notification requirement
The Secretary of the Treasury, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of any change to the Syria Sanctions Regulations, including changes to any existing regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or authorization, not later than 15 days prior to the date on which such change is to take effect.
5.
Definitions
In this Act—
(1)
the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(A)
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
(2)
the term
Syria Sanctions Regulations
means the regulations specified in part 542 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor or related regulations.
