1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Public Options for Unrestricted Consumer Harm-reduction Act of 2024
or the
POUCH Act of 2024
.
2.
Preemption of State laws on tobacco products for which a marketing order is in effect
(a)
In general
Paragraph (2) of section 916(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 387p(a)
) is amended to read as follows:
(2)
Preemption of certain State and local requirements
(A)
In general
(i)
Preemption
No State or political subdivision of a State may establish or continue in effect with respect to a tobacco product any requirement which is different from, or in addition to, any requirement under the provisions of this chapter relating to tobacco product standards, premarket review, adulteration, misbranding, labeling, registration, good manufacturing standards, or modified risk tobacco products.
(ii)
Exception
Clause (i) does not apply to requirements relating to the sale of, distribution of, possession of, information reporting to the State, exposure to, access to, the advertising and promotion of, or use of, tobacco products to or by individuals of any age, or relating to fire safety standards for tobacco products. Information disclosed to a State under clause (i) that is exempt from disclosure under section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code, shall be treated as a trade secret and confidential information by the State.
(B)
Tobacco products for which a marketing order is in effect
No State or political subdivision of a State may establish or continue in effect, with respect to tobacco products for which there is a marketing order issued under section 910(c)(1)(A)(i) in effect, any prohibition or restriction on the sale of, distribution of, possession of, exposure to, access to, advertising and promotion of, or use of such tobacco products that is different from, or in addition to, any prohibition or restriction on such tobacco products under the provisions of this chapter.
.
(b)
Conforming changes
Section 916(a)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 387p(a)(2)(A)
) is amended by striking
the sale, distribution, possession, exposure to, access to, advertising and promotion of, or use of tobacco products by individuals
and inserting
the sale of, distribution of, possession of, exposure to, access to, advertising and promotion of, or use of tobacco products to or by individuals
.
3.
Report on pending tobacco product applications
Not later than the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall submit to Congress a report containing a list specifying—
(1)
each pending new tobacco product application under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (
21 U.S.C. 387j
);
(2)
each pending application for a marketing authorization order for a modified risk tobacco product under section 911 of such Act (
21 U.S.C. 387k
); and
(3)
the status of each pending application referred to in paragraph (1) or (2).
