1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Sanctuary City Oversight and Responsibility in Enforcement Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds as follows:
(1)
Since taking office, there have been over 12,000,000 immigrants that have entered our country under President Biden’s Administration.
(2)
Under the Biden Administration, more illegal aliens have been allowed into the country than the population of States.
(3)
Under the Biden Administration, fentanyl is the leading cause of death for Americans aged 18 to 45, as 1,400 pounds of deadly fentanyl were seized at the border in just January of 2024.
(4)
Under the Biden Administration, 367 known or suspected terrorists have crossed the border, including eight suspected terrorists with ties to ISIS caught after illegally crossing the southern border using the CBPOne app.
(5)
In August 2023 in Maryland, Rachel Morin, a mother of five was raped and murdered on a running trail by an illegal alien with a criminal history of murdering and assaulting women.
(6)
In February 2024 in Georgia, Laken Riley, a nursing student at Augusta University, was killed by an illegal alien while she was jogging at the University of Georgia.
(7)
In June 2024 in New York, two 13-year-olds, a boy and a girl, were tied in up by a machete-wielding illegal alien, who kidnapped the children in a park and raped the young girl.
(8)
In June 2024 in Texas, a 12-year-old girl was raped and murdered by two illegal aliens who crossed the southern border illegally and were then released into the surrounding community.
(9)
Across the country, self-declared
Sanctuary Cities
and
Sanctuary States
are using Federal funds to transport migrants, asylees or illegal aliens to municipalities, cities and States that are not designated sanctuary cities or States.
3.
In general
In the case of any grant made by Federal Emergency Management Agency as part of the Shelter and Services Program, such grant may not be used for the transportation of any alien to a jurisdiction unless—
(1)
the appropriate elected or appointed State, local, territorial or tribal official has provided written approval; and
(2)
the grantee reports each fiscal quarter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency the destination of each alien who has been transported, which information shall be made available to State, local, territorial, and tribal officials.
4.
Limitation on eligibility
Any jurisdiction that violates section 3 shall be ineligible for a grant under the Shelter and Services Program.
5.
Considerations for limiting the provision of assistance
If a grantee uses amounts received under the Shelter and Services Program for transportation of a covered individual, the grantee shall provide to the Federal Emergency Management Agency documentation confirming that the covered individual receiving assistance with transportation has a place to continue receiving support in the destination jurisdiction, including through another provider organization, family, or a sponsor.
6.
GAO report
The Comptroller General of the United States, each quarter of each fiscal year, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report setting forth each jurisdiction that has received a grant under the Shelter and Services Program during the quarter preceding the report, and the amount of that grant.
7.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
The term
Shelter and Services Program
means grants made from the amounts transferred to the Federal Emergency Management Agency to support sheltering and related activities provided by non-Federal entities, including facility improvements and construction, in support of relieving overcrowding in short-term holding facilities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection pursuant to the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, or any other Act.
(2)
The term
covered individual
means any individual that has been encountered by the Department of Homeland Security resulting in an individual receiving an Alien Identification Number.
