1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Preserving America’s Farmland Act
.
2.
Study on effects of solar panel installations on covered farmland
(a)
In general
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall conduct a study on the effects of solar panel installations on the conversion of covered farmland out of agricultural production.
(b)
Elements
The study required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1)
An analysis of the economic effects of solar panel installations on—
(A)
converted and adjacent covered farmland, including on—
(i)
crop yields;
(ii)
land values, including adjacent properties; and
(iii)
land access and tenure;
(B)
local economies; and
(C)
food security.
(2)
The impacts of solar panel installation, operation, and decommissioning on—
(A)
covered farmland;
(B)
soil health;
(C)
water resources;
(D)
wildlife;
(E)
water drainage; and
(F)
vegetation.
(3)
An evaluation of existing Federal, State, or local tax incentives that encourage solar panel installations on covered farmland.
(4)
An evaluation of existing Federal, State, or local incentives to install solar panel installations on previously disturbed non-agricultural lands, such as the built environment, contaminated land, or landfills.
(5)
An evaluation of the effectiveness of programs administered by the Secretary and the Secretary of Energy that—
(A)
incentivize the use of solar energy to shift development towards the non-agricultural lands described in paragraph (4); and
(B)
discourage solar panel installations that would transition covered farmland out of agricultural production.
(6)
An estimate of the loss of agricultural production on covered farmland due to solar panel installations.
(c)
Consultation with relevant stakeholders
In carrying out the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with relevant farmers, ranchers, landowners, agricultural organizations, State departments of agriculture, conservation organizations, and land-grant colleges and universities.
(d)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—
(1)
submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a written report on the findings of the study; and
(2)
make such report publicly available.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered farmland
The term
covered farmland
has the meaning given the term
farmland
in section 1540(c)(1) of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (
7 U.S.C. 4201(c)(1)
).
(2)
Land grant colleges and universities
The term
land grand colleges and universities
has the meaning give the term in section 1404 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (
7 U.S.C. 3103
)).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
