1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
UAS Threat Disclosure Act
.
2.
Declassification of information related to security threats posed by covered unmanned aircraft systems
(a)
In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall—
(1)
declassify all information related to security threats posed by covered unmanned aircraft systems, including—
(A)
the complete and unredacted report and findings of any security assessment, test, inspection, audit, review, technical evaluation, analysis, or study conducted or commissioned by any Federal agency regarding a covered unmanned aircraft system prior to May 31, 2024; and
(B)
a description of the actions taken by any Federal agency as a result of any such report and findings;
(2)
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a complete and unclassified report that contains the information declassified and described under paragraph (1); and
(3)
publish on a publicly available internet website of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence such information, unless the Director determines any such declassification would be incompatible with the national security interests of the United States or otherwise inconsistent with the protection of intelligence sources or methods.
(b)
Briefing required
(1)
Briefing
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on the information declassified and described under subsection (a).
(2)
Requirement
The briefing under paragraph (1) shall be conducted jointly with the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Appropriate committees of Congress
The term
appropriate committees of Congress
means—
(A)
the Committee on Homeland Security and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
(B)
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
(2)
Business entity
The term
business entity
has the meaning given such term in section 334 of the Graham-Leach-Bliley Act (
15 U.S.C. 6764
).
(3)
Covered unmanned aircraft system
The term
covered unmanned aircraft system
means any unmanned aircraft system that has been produced, manufactured, or assembled by a business entity domiciled in the People’s Republic of China or subject to influence or control by the Government of the People’s Republic of China or the Communist Party of the People’s Republic of China, as determined by the Director.
(4)
Director
The term
Director
means the Director of National Intelligence.
(5)
Unmanned aircraft system
The term
unmanned aircraft system
has the meaning given such term in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code.
