1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Opioid Crisis Workforce Act
.
2.
Technical assistance
Section 168 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3223
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Communities impacted by opioid addiction and other substance use disorders
The Secretary shall, as a part of the activities described in subsection (c)(2), evaluate and disseminate to States and local areas information regarding promising and proven practices for addressing the economic and workforce impacts associated with high-rates of opioid addiction and other substance use disorders. Such information shall be updated annually to reflect the most recent and available research, include information shared by States and local areas regarding effective practices, and include information on how States and local areas experiencing high rates of opioid addiction can apply for funding available under section 170(b) to enhance their ability to implement such practices.
.
3.
Opioid crisis national dislocated worker grants
Section 170 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3225
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (b)(1)—
(A)
in subparagraph (C), by striking
and
at the end;
(B)
in subparagraph (D)(ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(C)
by adding at the end the following:
(E)
to an entity described in subsection (c)(1)(B) to provide employment and training activities related to the prevention and treatment of opioid use disorders, including addiction treatment, mental health treatment, and pain management, in an area that, as a result of widespread opioid use, addiction, and overdoses, has higher-than-average demand for such activities that exceeds the availability of State and local resources to provide such activities.
; and
(2)
in subsection (c)(2)—
(A)
in subparagraph (A)—
(B)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
(C)
by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
(C)
Opioid-related grants
In order to be eligible to receive employment and training assistance under a national dislocated worker grant awarded pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(E), an individual shall be—
(i)
a dislocated worker;
(ii)
a long-term unemployed individual;
(iii)
an individual who is unemployed or significantly underemployed as a result of widespread opioid use in the area; or
(iv)
an individual who is employed or seeking employment in a health care profession involved in the prevention and treatment of opioid use disorders, including such professions that provide addiction treatment, mental health treatment, or pain management.
.
