1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Women’s Private Spaces Act
.
2.
Prohibition on the use of single-sex facilities on federal property other than those corresponding to the biological sex of an individual
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in subsection (c), no person may access or use a single-sex facility on Federal property, other than those corresponding to the biological sex of such person.
(b)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
Single-sex facility
The term
single-sex facility
means a space intended for the use of one biological sex (male or female), including a—
(A)
restroom;
(B)
locker room; or
(C)
changing room.
(2)
Federal property
The term
Federal property
means any building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States (including the Department of Defense and the United States Postal Service), or any other instrumentality wholly owned by the United States, or by any department or agency of the District of Columbia or any territory or possession of the United States.
(3)
Biological sex
The term
biological sex
means the biological determination as to whether an individual is male or female, as such terms are defined in this section.
(4)
Female
The term
female
means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes eggs for fertilization.
(5)
Male
The term
male
means an individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes sperm for fertilization.
(c)
Exception
The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to—
(1)
emergency medical personnel responding to a medical emergency; or
(2)
law enforcement officers in active pursuit of a suspect, or as part of an active investigation.
