1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Michigan Sturgeon Protected and Exempt from Absurd Regulations Act
or as the
Michigan SPEAR Act
.
2.
Exclusion of certain populations of lake sturgeon under Endangered Species Act of 1973
(a)
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
The lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens) has a unique significance for the culture, communities, and people of Michigan, and especially for those near Black Lake in Northern Michigan.
(2)
Conservation of sturgeon in Michigan has been a tremendous success story, with the population of adult lake sturgeon statewide rapidly increasing and more than doubling in the last 20 years in Black Lake.
(3)
The Bay Mills Indian Community, Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, Little River Band of Ottawa Indians, Little Traverse Bay Band of Odawa Indians, and the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians have deep cultural ties and treaty-protected rights to sturgeon fishing, and have been strong partners in co-management of sturgeon populations with the State of Michigan.
(4)
Local anglers play a key role in lake sturgeon conservation in Michigan, including hundreds of volunteers in the
Sturgeon Guard
patrolling spawning areas to ward off poachers each year.
(5)
The spearing season is a cultural event in Northern Michigan, with hundreds of anglers and other visitors attending the
Black Lake Sturgeon Shivaree
to celebrate and raise money for lake sturgeon recovery, protection, hatcheries, research, habitat conservation, and outreach programs.
(6)
Upending this longstanding tradition through a Federal Endangered Species Act designation is unnecessary given the success of current management in Michigan, will greatly diminish the local buy-in for conservation efforts, and will sever an important cultural mainstay for both State and tribal communities.
(b)
Exclusion from listing
Section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1533(a)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by striking
The Secretary shall by regulation
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (4), the Secretary shall by regulation
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(4)
Applicability to lake sturgeon
The Secretary may not make a determination under this subsection that any population of the lake sturgeon (
Acipenser fulvescens
) in Michigan is threatened or endangered.
.
