1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Convert Harmful Algal Blooms to Fuel Act
or the
Convert HABs to Fuel Act
.
2.
Harmful algal bloom technology development
Section 1109 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (
36 U.S.C. 610
note) is amended—
(1)
in the section heading, by striking
demonstration
and inserting
development
;
(2)
in subsection (a), by striking
a 5-year harmful algal bloom technology development demonstration program
and inserting
a harmful algal bloom technology development program
;
(3)
in subsection (b), by striking
demonstration
; and
(4)
by adding at the end the following:
(c)
Specific projects required
(1)
Projects
In carrying out the harmful algal bloom technology development program under this section, the Secretary shall carry out projects in the Caloosahatchee River watershed, the St. Lucie River and estuary basin, and the Lake Okeechobee watershed (as such watershed is described by the South Florida Water Management District for purposes of the Lake Okeechobee Watershed Construction Project 2020 update) that utilize previously demonstrated technologies that are capable of mitigating harmful algal blooms and nutrient pollution by harvesting algae and converting the retrieved algae biomass into renewable biofuel.
(2)
Technologies
In carrying out projects under this subsection, the Secretary shall utilize technologies that have been previously demonstrated as effective through research carried out under this section.
(3)
Consultation
In carrying out projects under this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with relevant Federal, State, and local agencies, institutions of higher education, and private organizations, including nonprofit organizations.
(4)
Selection of specific locations
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary, in collaboration with the entities described in paragraph (3), shall select specific locations within the Caloosahatchee River watershed, the St. Lucie River and estuary basin, and the Lake Okeechobee watershed at which to carry out projects under this subsection.
(5)
Coordination
In carrying out projects under this subsection, the Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency on the use of algae biomass derived from the projects that may be combined with other wet waste material, such as municipal biosolids, to support the scaling up of biofuel projects and the renewable energy activities of the Office of Energy, Efficiency, and Renewable Energy of the Department of Energy.
(6)
Collaboration
In carrying out projects under this subsection, the Secretary shall collaborate with relevant Federal, State, and local agencies and private organizations to the maximum extent practicable.
(7)
Report
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report containing the results of the projects carried out under this subsection, including—
(A)
a determination of whether it is feasible to mitigate harmful algal blooms and convert retrieved algae biomass and other wet waste material into renewable clean energy sources, such as biofuel and renewable natural gas;
(B)
a description of any water quality improvements that occurred at the locations of the projects over the period during which the projects were carried out; and
(C)
any other information determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(d)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $25,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out this subsection.
.
