1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Supporting Opportunities to Build Everyday Responsibility Act of 2024
or the
Sober Act of 2024
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Crimes attributed to alcohol abuse have been estimated to cost the United States $84 billion annually.
(2)
One in four Federal prisoners and nearly one in three State prisoners reported drinking alcohol at the time of the offense that led to their incarceration.
(3)
A 24/7 sobriety program is intended to help people with substance use disorders to achieve long term sobriety. It complements ignition interlock devices and should be used in tandem with ignition interlock devices that protect public safety.
(4)
In South Dakota a $400,000 investment in a statewide 24/7 sobriety program led to at least $28 million in savings—$70 saved for every dollar spent.
(5)
Participants in Montana’s 24/7 sobriety program saw an 80 percent reduction in the probability of rearrest for a DUI.
(6)
A 24/7 sobriety program should be implemented along with effective screening and assessment to ensure effective identification of individuals with substance use disorders.
(7)
24/7 sobriety programs are not a substitute for criminal investigations or prosecutions.
(8)
24/7 sobriety programs should provide an opportunity for victim input when determining whether an individual qualifies for the program.
(9)
Input from Federal, State, or local law enforcement and prosecutors should be considered when potentially admitting an individual into a 24/7 sobriety program.
3.
Grant program for 24/7 sobriety programs
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a grant program (in this Act referred to as the
Program
) to distribute funding for state, local, and tribal 24/7 sobriety programs.
(b)
Grant authority
In carrying out the Program, the Secretary may award a grant to an eligible recipient that submits an application for the Program.
(c)
Eligible recipient
(1)
In general
Grants awarded under the Program may be awarded to a State, Tribal government, or an agency, office, or a group of such agencies or offices of the State or Tribal government for the purpose of administering an eligible project under subsection (e).
(2)
Subgrant
An eligible recipient awarded a grant under the Program may distribute a subgrant of funds awarded under the program to any local government office or agency, or group of offices or agencies, for the purpose of administering an eligible project under subsection (e).
(d)
Plan
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an eligible recipient shall submit to the Secretary a plan for how the recipient would use the grant to maintain, expand, or implement a 24/7 sobriety program.
(e)
Eligible projects
Grant funds awarded under the Program shall be used to defray costs associated with maintaining or expanding an existing 24/7 sobriety program or implementing a new 24/7 sobriety program.
(f)
Federal share
The Federal share of the cost of a project assisted with a grant under the Program shall not exceed 80 percent.
(g)
Report by eligible recipient
Not later than 1 year after disbursement of funds to an eligible recipient under the Program, such recipient shall submit to the Secretary a report including, for each 24/7 sobriety program funded by the recipient—
(1)
information on eligibility and participation in the 24/7 sobriety program;
(2)
data with respect to the number of failed tests by participants in the 24/7 sobriety program;
(3)
data reflecting any criminal charges and convictions among participants in the 24/7 sobriety program during their participation in the program;
(4)
data regarding programmatic outcomes, including technical violations of the 24/7 sobriety program and sanctions; and
(5)
categorized expenses incurred for a 24/7 sobriety program, including administrative expenses.
(h)
Report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after receiving the grant recipient reports required under subsection (g), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report containing data gathered from such grant recipient reports.
(i)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029.
(j)
24/7 sobriety program defined
In this section, the term
24/7 sobriety program
means a law or program that authorizes a court or an agency with jurisdiction, as a condition of bond, sentence, probation, parole, or work permit, to—
(1)
require an individual to abstain from alcohol or drugs for a period of time;
(2)
require an individual to be subject to testing for alcohol or drugs—
(A)
at least twice per day at a testing location; or
(B)
by continuous transdermal alcohol monitoring via an electronic monitoring device; or
(3)
impose an immediate sanction for a failed a test for alcohol or drugs, including—
(A)
a period of time in jail; or
(B)
community service.
4.
Conforming amendments
Section 405(d) of title 23, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (4)(B)—
(A)
in clause (ix) by inserting
and
after the semicolon;
(B)
by striking clause (x); and
(C)
by redesignating clause (xi) as clause (x);
(2)
in paragraph (6)—
(A)
by striking subparagraph (B);
(B)
by striking
and subparagraph (B)
each place it appears;
(C)
in subparagraph (E)—
(i)
in the heading by striking
Funding
and all that follows through
Not more than 12 percent
and inserting
Funding for grants to States with alcohol-ignition interlock laws.—
Not more than 15 percent
; and
(ii)
by striking clause (ii); and
(D)
by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (F) as subparagraphs (B) through (E), respectively; and
(3)
in paragraph (7)—
(A)
by striking subparagraph (A); and
(B)
by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (E) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively.
