1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Growing Opportunities in Agriculture Act
or the
GO Ag Act
.
2.
Grant program for new agricultural education programs
(a)
Grant program authorized
(1)
In general
The Secretary shall award, on a competitive basis, grants to eligible entities to support the creation of new agricultural education programs in secondary schools.
(2)
Grant duration
A grant awarded under this section may not exceed a 5-year grant period.
(b)
Application
(1)
In general
To receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(A)
an identification and the role with respect to each program to be funded under the grant of any eligible partners of the eligible entity, including an assurance the grant under this section will not be used to prepare students for employment with solely one or more of such eligible partners;
(B)
an assurance that each program that will receive assistance under the grant is not yet in operation and such grant will be used to start such program;
(C)
a description of the grant budget, how each program will fund necessary expenses for the program not covered by the grant (such as any funds to be provided by State, local, or private entities), and how the eligible entity will continue each such program after the grant is exhausted;
(D)
a description of how grant will directly benefit students, including special populations, served by the eligible entity;
(E)
a description of how each such program will be coordinated with the activities carried out under section 124 or 135 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2344
; 2355);
(F)
a description of how each such program reflects the needs of regional, State, or local employers, as demonstrated by the comprehensive needs assessment under section 134(c) of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2354(c)
) carried out by the eligible entity; and
(G)
an assurance that the eligible entity will—
(i)
provide information to the Secretary, as requested, for the evaluation under subsection (d) and any evaluations that the Secretary may carry out; and
(ii)
make data available to third parties for validation, in accordance with applicable data privacy laws, including section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act (
20 U.S.C. 1232g
, commonly known as the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974
).
(2)
Process
The Secretary shall create a process for evaluating applications submitted under paragraph (1) and determining the amount of each grant for successful applications, except that in no case may an eligible entity receive a grant exceeding $100,000.
(c)
Uses of funds
Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall use such grant for the creation of new agricultural education programs in secondary schools, which may include—
(1)
curriculum development and delivery, including classroom or laboratory instruction, work-based learning, and leadership education delivered through career and technical student organizations;
(2)
the purchase of equipment, technology, and course materials; and
(3)
other costs the Secretary may determine to be eligible.
(d)
Evaluation and annual report
Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall provide for an independent evaluation of the activities carried out using such grant and submit to the Secretary an annual report that includes—
(1)
a description of how the grant was used;
(2)
the performance of each program assistance with such grant with respect to, at a minimum, the performance indicators described under section 113 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2323
), as applicable, and disaggregated—
(A)
by subgroups of students described in section 1111(c)(2)(B) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 6311(c)(2)(B)
); and
(B)
by each special population; and
(3)
a quantitative analysis of the effectiveness of each such program.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Agricultural education
The term
agricultural education
means career and technical education that is focused on agriculture, including classroom or laboratory instruction, work-based learning, and leadership education delivered through career and technical student organizations.
(2)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
has the meaning given the term
eligible recipient
in section 3(21)(A) of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (
20 U.S.C. 2302(21)(A)
).
(3)
Eligible partner
The term
eligible partner
means—
(A)
an institution of higher education or a consortium of such institutions; or
(B)
a community stakeholder relevant to a program to be funded under this section, including a labor organization, a local or regional business or industry, or a local workforce development board.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000, to remain available through fiscal year 2027.
