1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Broadband Industry Development Act
.
2.
Broadband industry training grants
Subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3221 et seq.
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating section 172 as section 173; and
(2)
by inserting after section 171 the following:
172.
Broadband industry training grants
(a)
In general
The Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to provide training programs (including pre-apprenticeship programs) to prepare workers for careers in the broadband industry.
(b)
Application requirements
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
(c)
Matching funds
Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall provide, from non-Federal sources, an amount equal to 25 percent of the amount of the grant (which may be provided in cash or in kind) to carry out the activities supported by the grant.
(d)
No new funds authorized
Amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section shall be derived solely from amounts otherwise appropriated for the Department of Labor.
(e)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Apprenticeship program
The term
apprenticeship program
means an apprenticeship registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the
National Apprenticeship Act
; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;
29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.
).
(2)
Broadband
The term
broadband
has the meaning given the term
broadband internet access service
in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).
(3)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(A)
an eligible provider of training services identified under section 122 (or a consortium of such providers);
(B)
a labor organization or joint labor-management organization;
(C)
a nonprofit entity (such as a community-based organization that assists program participants in accessing supportive services);
(D)
a private business;
(E)
an industry association; or
(F)
an institution of higher education (such as a community college).
(4)
Pre-apprenticeship program
The term
pre-apprenticeship program
means a program—
(A)
designed to assist individuals who do not meet minimum qualifications for an apprenticeship program and prepare them to enter and succeed in such an apprenticeship, including by providing the skills and competency attainment needed to enter the apprenticeship; and
(B)
that is carried out by a sponsor that has a written agreement with at least one sponsor of an apprenticeship.
.
3.
Conforming amendments to the table of contents
The table of contents of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act in section 1(b) is amended—
(1)
by striking the item relating to section 172; and
(2)
by inserting after the item relating to section 171, the following:
Sec. 172. Broadband industry training grants.
Sec. 173. Authorization of appropriations.
.
