1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Honoring Police Officer and K9 Service Act of 2023
.
2.
Grant program to facilitate veterinary care for former law enforcement canines
(a)
Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish a grant program to facilitate the care of former law enforcement canines (in this section referred to as the
program
).
(b)
Grant authority and eligible recipients
In carrying out the program, the Attorney General may award a grant on a competitive basis to any entity that qualifies as a nonprofit organization under
section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that the Attorney General determines has—
(1)
a demonstrated history of successfully assisting the owners of former law enforcement canines with costs associated with veterinary care, medication and antibiotics, or other medical expenses for the canine; and
(2)
the capacity to record and provide a detailed accounting of the purposes for which grant amounts are expended.
(c)
Eligible projects
A recipient of a grant under the program may only use grant funds to cover the costs associated with veterinary care, medication and antibiotics, or other medical expenses determined necessary by a veterinarian for the former law enforcement canine.
(d)
Applications
To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Attorney General determines appropriate.
(e)
Reports
(1)
Reports to Attorney General
As a condition of receiving a grant under the program, a prospective recipient shall agree to submit to the Attorney General, on an annual basis for the duration of the project to be carried out using grant funds a report containing, with respect to the year covered by the report—
(A)
a detailed accounting of how grant funds were used; and
(B)
a proposal for how activities carried out under the project may be improved in the future.
(2)
Submission to Congress
Upon receiving a report under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall submit a copy of the report to Congress.
(f)
Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.
(g)
Former law enforcement canine defined
In this section, the term
former law enforcement canine
means a canine that has been used by a Federal, State, or local agency in the performance of law enforcement duties and that has been determined by such agency to be no longer needed for official purposes.
