1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Federal Disaster Responsibility Act
.
2.
Disaster relief fund
Out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated for fiscal year 2023 $16,500,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses to carry out the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
) with respect to major disasters declared under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5170
).
3.
Tax relief related to certain disasters occurring in 2021, 2022, and 2023
(a)
Definitions
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Incident period
The term
incident period
means, with respect to any qualified disaster, the period specified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the period during which such disaster occurred (except that for purposes of this title such period shall not be treated as ending after the date which is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act).
(2)
Qualified disaster area
(A)
In general
The term
qualified disaster area
means any area with respect to which a major disaster was declared, during the period beginning after December 27, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2023, by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act if the incident period of the disaster with respect to which such declaration is made begins on or after December 28, 2020, and on or before December 31, 2023.
(B)
Exceptions
(i)
Disaster receiving relief under previous acts
Such term shall not include any area which is a qualified disaster area solely by reason of section 301 of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020.
(ii)
Covid–19 exception
Such term shall not include any area with respect to which such a major disaster has been so declared only by reason of COVID–19.
(3)
Qualified disaster
The term
qualified disaster
means, with respect to any qualified disaster area, the disaster by reason of which a major disaster was declared with respect to such area.
(b)
Special rules for qualified disaster-Related personal casualty losses
(1)
In general
If an individual has a net disaster loss for any taxable year—
(A)
the amount determined under
section 165(h)(2)(A)(ii)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be equal to the sum of—
(i)
such net disaster loss; and
(ii)
so much of the excess referred to in the matter preceding clause (i) of section 165(h)(2)(A) of such Code (reduced by the amount in clause (i) of this subparagraph) as exceeds 10 percent of the adjusted gross income of the individual;
(B)
in the case of qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses, section 165(h)(1) of such Code shall be applied to by substituting
$500
for
$500 ($100 for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2009)
;
(C)
the standard deduction determined under section 63(c) of such Code shall be increased by the net disaster loss; and
(D)
section 56(b)(1)(E) of such Code shall not apply to so much of the standard deduction as is attributable to the increase under subparagraph (C) of this paragraph.
(2)
Net disaster loss
For purposes of this subsection, the term
net disaster loss
means the excess of qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses over personal casualty gains (as defined in
section 165(h)(3)(A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
(3)
Qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses
For purposes of this subsection, the term
qualified disaster-related personal casualty losses
means losses described in
section 165(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which arise in a qualified disaster area on or after the first day of the incident period of the qualified disaster to which such area relates, and which are attributable to such qualified disaster.
(c)
Treatment of certain possessions
(1)
Payments to possessions with mirror code tax systems
The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States which has a mirror code tax system amounts equal to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the application of the provisions of this section. Such amounts shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury based on information provided by the government of the respective possession.
(2)
Payments to other possessions
The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States which does not have a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury as being equal to the aggregate benefits (if any) that would have been provided to residents of such possession by reason of the provisions of this section if a mirror code tax system had been in effect in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not apply unless the respective possession has a plan, which has been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, under which such possession will promptly distribute such payments to its residents.
(3)
Mirror code tax system
For purposes of this subsection, the term
mirror code tax system
means, with respect to any possession of the United States, the income tax system of such possession if the income tax liability of the residents of such possession under such system is determined by reference to the income tax laws of the United States as if such possession were the United States.
(4)
Treatment of payments
For purposes of section 1324 of title 31, United States Code, the payments under this subsection shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such section.
(5)
Coordination with United States income taxes
In the case of any person with respect to whom a tax benefit is taken into account with respect to the taxes imposed by any possession of the United States by reason of this subsection, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be applied with respect to such person without regard to the provisions of this subsection which provide such benefit.
4.
Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023 amendment
Title I of the Disaster Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023 (division N of
Public Law 117–328
), is amended, in the matter under the heading
Office of the Secretary
under the heading
Processing, Research and Marketing
under the heading
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
under the heading
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
, by inserting
:
Provided further
, That the Secretary of Agriculture may provide assistance for losses described under this heading in this Act in the form of block grants to eligible States and territories
before the period at the end.
5.
Rehabilitation and repair of flood and storm damage reduction projects
Any requirement under section 103 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (
33 U.S.C. 2213
) with respect to easements shall not apply to construction or rehabilitation and repair of damages to shore protection projects caused by natural disasters using amounts made available to the Corps of Engineers for flood and storm damage reduction projects.
6.
Department of Defense assessment
(a)
In general
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report assessing damage from Hurricane Idalia to Department of Defense bases and installations in the state of Florida.
(b)
Elements
The report required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1)
an assessment of the impact to Department of Defense operations; and
(2)
an estimate of costs to repair damages and restore bases and installations to full readiness.
7.
Emergency designation
(a)
In general
The amounts provided by this Act are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (
2 U.S.C. 933(g)
).
(b)
Designation in house and senate
The amounts provided by this Act are designated as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and section 1(e) of H. Res. 1151 (117th Congress), as engrossed in the House of Representatives on June 8, 2022.
