1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Early Action and Responsiveness Lifts Youth Minds Act
or the
EARLY Minds Act
.
2.
Early intervention
(a)
State plan option
Section 1912(b)(1)(A)(vii) of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300x–1(b)(1)(A)(vii)
) is amended—
(1)
in subclause (III), by striking
and
at the end;
(2)
in subclause (IV), by striking the period at the end and inserting
; and
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(V)
a description of any evidence-based prevention and early intervention strategies and programs the State provides to prevent, delay, or reduce the severity and onset of mental illness and behavioral problems, including for children and adolescents, irrespective of experiencing a serious mental illness or serious emotional disturbance, as defined under subsection (c)(1).
.
(b)
Allocation allowance; reports
Section 1920 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300x–9
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(e)
Prevention and early intervention services
In the case of a State with a State plan that provides for strategies and programs specified in section 1912(b)(1)(A)(vii)(V), such State may expend not more than 5 percent of the amount of the allotment of the State pursuant to a funding agreement under section 1911 for each fiscal year to support such strategies and programs.
(f)
Reports to congress
Not later than September 30, 2025, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall provide a report to the Congress on the prevention and early intervention strategies and programs pursued by States pursuant to subsections (e). Each such report shall include—
(1)
a list of the States that utilized the option to provide prevention and early intervention services;
(2)
a description of the each State’s prevention and early intervention activities;
(3)
the population served, including information on demographics, including age;
(4)
the outcomes of such activities, including—
(A)
how such activities reduced delays in access to mental and behavioral health care for children and adults; and
(B)
how such activities reduced the severity of onset of serious mental illness and serious emotional disturbance; and
(5)
any other relevant information the Secretary deems necessary.
.
