1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ban Offshore Abortion Tourism Act
or the
BOAT Act
.
2.
Prohibiting abortion in the certain jurisdictions
(a)
In general
Chapter 74
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1531
the following:
1532.
Abortions in the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States
(a)
Offense
Subject to subsection (b), any person who, in the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, knowingly performs an abortion and thereby kills a human fetus shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(b)
Exception
Subsection (a) does not apply if—
(1)
in reasonable medical judgment, the abortion is necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman whose life is endangered by a physical disorder, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself, but not including psychological or emotional conditions;
(2)
the pregnancy is the result of rape against an adult woman, and at least 48 hours prior to the abortion—
(A)
she has obtained counseling for the rape; or
(B)
she has obtained medical treatment for the rape or an injury related to the rape; or
(3)
the pregnancy is a result of rape against a minor or incest against a minor, and the rape or incest has been reported at any time prior to the abortion to either—
(A)
a government agency legally authorized to act on reports of child abuse; or
(B)
a law enforcement agency.
(c)
Bar to prosecution
A woman upon whom an abortion in violation of subsection (a) is performed or attempted may not be prosecuted under, or for a conspiracy to violate, subsection (a), or for an offense under section 2, 3, or 4 of this title based on such a violation.
(d)
Civil remedies
(1)
Civil action by a woman on whom an abortion is performed
A woman upon whom an abortion has been performed or attempted in violation of any provision of this section may, in a civil action before the appropriate district court of the United States against any person who committed the violation, obtain appropriate relief.
(2)
Civil action by a parent of a minor on whom abortion is performed
A parent of a minor upon whom an abortion has been performed or attempted under an exception provided for in subsection (b)(2)(B), and that was performed in violation of any provision of this section may, in a civil action before the appropriate district court of the United States against any person who committed the violation obtain appropriate relief, unless the pregnancy resulted from the plaintiff’s criminal conduct.
(3)
Appropriate relief
Appropriate relief in a civil action under this subsection includes—
(A)
objectively verifiable money damages for all injuries, psychological and physical, occasioned by the violation;
(B)
statutory damages equal to three times the cost of the abortion; and
(C)
punitive damages.
(4)
Attorneys’ fees for plaintiff
If a plaintiff in a civil action under this subsection prevails, the court shall award a reasonable attorney’s fee in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant.
(5)
Attorneys’ fees for defendant
If a defendant in a civil action under this subsection prevails and the court finds that the plaintiff’s suit was frivolous, the court shall award a reasonable attorney’s fee in favor of the defendant against the plaintiff.
(6)
Award against woman upon whom abortion is performed
Except under paragraph (5), in a civil action under this subsection, no damages, attorneys’ fees, or other monetary relief may be assessed against the woman upon whom the abortion was performed or attempted.
.
(b)
Table of sections
The table of sections for
chapter 74
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
section 1531
the following:
1532. Abortions in the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States
.
