1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Reduce Duplication and Improve Access to Work Act
.
2.
Allowing transfers to support workforce development
(a)
In general
Section 404(d) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 604(d)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
; and
(2)
in paragraph (3)—
(A)
in subparagraph (B)—
(i)
in the heading, by striking
1 of title xx
and inserting
a
of title
xx
and title
i
of WIOA
; and
(ii)
by striking
1 of title XX
and inserting
A of title XX or title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
; and
(B)
by adding at the end the following:
(C)
Funds transferred to title I of WIOA program
(i)
Limitation on reservation of funds
In the case of funds transferred under paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection, not more than 15 percent of the funds shall be reserved for statewide workforce investment activities referred to in section 128(a)(1) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(ii)
Submission of combined State plan under WIOA
If a State intends to transfer funds under paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection, the State shall—
(I)
submit to the Secretary and the Secretary of Labor a combined State plan pursuant to section 103 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act that covers the State program to be carried out pursuant to this part; and
(II)
in doing so, apply section 102(c)(3) of such Act to the programs referred to in section 103(a)(2)(B) of such Act covered by the combined plan.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2025.
3.
Two-year reauthorization of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program
Activities authorized by part A of title IV (other than under section 403(c) or 418) and section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act shall continue through September 30, 2026, in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2023, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
