1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Facilitating Optimal and Rapid Expansion and Siting of Telecommunications Act
or the
FOREST Act
.
2.
Exemption for previously analyzed areas of National Forest System lands
(a)
In general
The requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
) or division A of subtitle 54, United States Code, shall not apply to an application for a communications use authorization on National Forest System lands, including National Forest System lands on which authorized utilities, communications facilities, powerline facilities or roads have been installed, if—
(1)
the communications equipment is located in or on existing infrastructure; or
(2)
the communications facility is located on previously analyzed areas of National Forest System lands.
(b)
No additional consultation required under certain circumstances
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be required to reinitiate consultation of the requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
) or division A of subtitle 54, United States Code, for an application for a communications use authorization on previously analyzed areas of National Forest System lands if new information concerning a previously analyzed area of National Forest Service land becomes available.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Communications facility; communications use authorization
The terms
communications facility
and
communications use authorization
have the meanings given the terms, respectively, in section 8705 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (
43 U.S.C. 1761a
).
(2)
Previously analyzed areas of national forest system lands
The term
previously analyzed areas of National Forest System lands
means any National Forest Service land with respect to which the Secretary has—
(A)
granted, issued, and executed a communications use authorization; and
(B)
conducted sufficient environmental or historical reviews.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
