1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Confidence in Clean Water Permits Act
.
2.
Compliance with permits
Section 402(k) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1342(k)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
(k)
Compliance with
and inserting the following:
(k)
Compliance with permits
(1)
In general
Subject to paragraph (2), compliance with
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(2)
Scope
For purposes of paragraph (1), compliance with the conditions of a permit shall be considered compliance with respect to a discharge of—
(A)
any pollutant for which an effluent limitation is included in the permit; and
(B)
any pollutant for which an effluent limitation is not included in the permit that is—
(i)
specifically identified as controlled or monitored through indicator parameters in the permit, the fact sheet for the permit, or the administrative record relating to the permit;
(ii)
specifically identified during the permit application process as present in discharges to which the permit will apply; or
(iii)
whether or not specifically identified in the permit or during the permit application process—
(I)
present in any waste streams or processes of the point source to which the permit applies, which waste streams or processes are specifically identified during the permit application process; or
(II)
otherwise within the scope of any operations of the point source to which the permit applies, which scope of operations is specifically identified during the permit application process.
.
3.
Expression of water quality-based effluent limitations
Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (
33 U.S.C. 1342
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(t)
Expression of water quality-Based effluent limitations
The Administrator (or a State, in the case of a permit program approved by the Administrator) may not include any water quality-based limitation on a discharge of a pollutant in a permit under this section except in the form of an effluent limitation that specifies—
(1)
the pollutant to which it applies; and
(2)
the numerical limit on the discharge of such pollutant, or the precise waterbody conditions to be attained with respect to such pollutant, required to comply with the permit.
.
