Section 1.

Establishment

. There is established within   ( ) the President's   ( ).

 . 2.

Mission

. (a) The   shall provide the President and   ( ) advice and recommendations on effective strategies for the implementation of best business practices on matters related to   management and operation, with a particular focus on productivity, the application of technology, and customer service.

(b) The functions of the   shall be advisory only.

 . 3.

Membership

. (a) The   shall consist of not more than 18 members, one of whom shall be the Deputy Director for   (DDM). The remaining 17 members shall be appointed by the President from among distinguished citizens from outside   who are qualified on the basis of a proven record of sound judgment in leading or governing large, complex, or innovative private sector corporations or entities and a wealth of top-level business experience in the areas of executive management, audit and finance, human resources and compensation, customer service, streamlining operations, and technology. Each of these 17 members may serve as a representative of his or her industry, trade group, public interest group, or other organization or group. The composition of the   shall reflect the views of diverse stakeholders.

(b) The   shall serve as Chair of the  . The   shall convene and preside at meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(c) Members appointed by the President shall serve for a term of   and shall be eligible for reappointment. Members may continue to serve after the expiration of their terms until the appointment of a successor.

 . 4.

Administration

. (a)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(b) All executive departments, agencies, and offices shall provide information and assistance to the   as the   may request for purposes of carrying out the  's functions, to the extent permitted by law.

(c) The   shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director, who shall be a full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee appointed by the  . The Executive Director shall serve as   in accordance with  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.)(FACA).

(d) Members of the   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

 . 5.

Termination

. The   shall terminate   after the date of this order unless extended by the President.

 . 6.

General Provisions

. (a) Insofar as the   may apply to the  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
