Section 1. Policy.

Recognizing the tremendous potential of expanding the   commercial relationship,   in   launched  , a partnership between   and Sub-Saharan Africa, and created a   Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan Africa outlining a comprehensive   policy for the region, among other activities. Ensuring that such initiatives and activities reflect the priorities of, and benefit from the support of, the private sector is critical to their success. For that reason, in Executive Order   of  , I directed the Secretary of   to establish the President's   in Africa (Council). Since its establishment in  , the   has been actively engaged in advising on strengthening commercial engagement between   and Africa and has provided numerous recommendations on a broad range of issues. In light of the numerous   initiatives and activities to promote expansion of the commercial relationship, the breadth of   private sector engagement in  , and the range of issues on which future advice may be requested, broader representation of the diversity of private sector viewpoints, experiences, and knowledge on the   is warranted. Thus I am increasing the membership of the  .

 . 2.

Amendment to Executive Order  .

Executive Order   of  , is amended in section 3(a) by striking "shall consist of not more than 15 private sector corporate members" and inserting in lieu thereof "shall consist of not more than 26 private sector corporate members".

 . 3.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
