Section 1. Policy.

It is the policy of   to prevent the introduction, establishment, and spread of invasive species, as well as to eradicate and control populations of invasive species that are established. Invasive species pose threats to prosperity, security, and quality of life. They have negative impacts on the environment and natural resources, agriculture and food production systems, water resources, human, animal, and plant health, infrastructure, the economy, energy, cultural resources, and military readiness.  , invasive species cost   billions of dollars in economic losses and other damages.

Of substantial growing concern are invasive species that are or may be vectors, reservoirs, and causative agents of disease, which threaten human, animal, and plant health. The introduction, establishment, and spread of invasive species create the potential for serious public health impacts, especially when considered in the context of changing climate conditions. Climate change influences the establishment, spread, and impacts of invasive species.

Executive Order 13112 of   ( ), called upon executive departments and agencies to take steps to prevent the introduction and spread of invasive species, and to support efforts to eradicate and control invasive species that are established. Executive Order   also created a coordinating body— , also referred to as  —to oversee implementation of the order, encourage proactive planning and action, develop recommendations for international cooperation, and take other steps to improve the   response to invasive species. Past efforts at preventing, eradicating, and controlling invasive species demonstrated that collaboration across  , local, tribal, and territorial government; stakeholders; and the private sector is critical to minimizing the spread of invasive species and that coordinated action is necessary to protect the assets and security of  .

This order amends Executive Order   and directs actions to continue coordinated Federal prevention and control efforts related to invasive species. This order maintains  ) and  ; expands the membership of the  ; clarifies the operations of the  ; incorporates considerations of human and environmental health, climate change, technological innovation, and other emerging priorities into Federal efforts to address invasive species; and strengthens coordinated, cost-efficient Federal action.

 . 2. Definitions.

Section 1 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

"Section 1. Definitions.

(a) 'Control' means containing, suppressing, or reducing populations of invasive species.

(b) 'Eradication' means the removal or destruction of an entire population of invasive species.

(c) 'Federal agency' means an executive department or agency, but does not include independent establishments as defined by 5 U.S.C. 104.

(d) 'Introduction' means, as a result of human activity, the intentional or unintentional escape, release, dissemination, or placement of an organism into an ecosystem to which it is not native.

(e) 'Invasive species' means, with regard to a particular ecosystem, a non-native organism whose introduction causes or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm, or harm to human, animal, or plant health.

(f) 'Non-native species' or 'alien species' means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, an organism, including its seeds, eggs, spores, or other biological material capable of propagating that species, that occurs outside of its natural range.

(g) ' ' means the mechanisms and processes by which non-native species are moved, intentionally or unintentionally, into a new ecosystem.

(h) 'Prevention' means the action of stopping invasive species from being introduced or spreading into a new ecosystem.

(i) '  means the 50  ,  ,  ,  ,  , the  ,  , all possessions, and the territorial sea of   as defined by Presidential Proclamation 5928 of  ."

 . 3.

Federal Agency Duties.

Section 2 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

"Sec. 2.  .

(a) Each Federal agency for which that agency's actions may affect the introduction, establishment, or spread of invasive species shall, to the extent practicable and permitted by law,

(1) identify such agency actions;

(2) subject to the availability of appropriations, and within administrative, budgetary, and jurisdictional limits, use relevant agency programs and authorities to:

(i) prevent the introduction, establishment, and spread of invasive species;

(ii) detect and respond rapidly to eradicate or control populations of invasive species in a manner that is cost-effective and minimizes human, animal, plant, and environmental health risks;

(iii) monitor invasive species populations accurately and reliably;

(iv) provide for the restoration of native species, ecosystems, and other assets that have been impacted by invasive species;

(v) conduct research on invasive species and develop and apply technologies to prevent their introduction, and provide for environmentally sound methods of eradication and control of invasive species;

(vi) promote public education and action on invasive species, their pathways, and ways to address them, with an emphasis on prevention, and early detection and rapid response;

(vii) assess and strengthen, as appropriate, policy and regulatory frameworks pertaining to the prevention, eradication, and control of invasive species and address regulatory gaps, inconsistencies, and conflicts;

(viii) coordinate with and complement similar efforts of  , territories, federally recognized     tribes,  ,  , local governments, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector; and

(ix) in consultation with   and with other agencies as appropriate, coordinate with foreign governments to prevent the movement and minimize the impacts of invasive species; and

(3) refrain from authorizing, funding, or implementing actions that are likely to cause or promote the introduction, establishment, or spread of invasive species in   unless, pursuant to guidelines that it has prescribed, the agency has determined and made public its determination that the benefits of such actions clearly outweigh the potential harm caused by invasive species; and that all feasible and prudent measures to minimize risk of harm will be taken in conjunction with the actions.

(c) Federal agencies shall pursue the duties set forth in this section in coordination, to the extent practicable, with other member agencies of the   and staff, consistent with  , and in cooperation with  , local, tribal, and territorial governments, and stakeholders, as appropriate, and in consultation with   when Federal agencies are working with international organizations and foreign nations.

(d) Federal agencies that are members of the  , and Federal interagency bodies working on issues relevant to the prevention, eradication, and control of invasive species, shall provide the   with   information on actions taken that implement these duties and identify barriers to advancing priority actions.

(e) To the extent practicable, Federal agencies shall also expand the use of new and existing technologies and practices; develop, share, and utilize similar metrics and standards, methodologies, and databases and, where relevant, platforms for monitoring invasive species; and, facilitate the interoperability of information systems, open data, data analytics, predictive modeling, and data reporting necessary to inform timely, science-based decision making."

 . 4.

Emerging Priorities.

Federal agencies that are members of   bodies working on issues relevant to the prevention, eradication, and control of invasive species shall take emerging priorities into consideration, including:

(a) Federal agencies shall consider the potential public health and safety impacts of invasive species, especially those species that are vectors, reservoirs, and causative agents of disease.  , in coordination and consultation with relevant agencies as appropriate, shall within   of this order, and as requested by the   thereafter, provide   and the   a report on public health impacts associated with invasive species. That report shall describe the disease, injury, immunologic, and safety impacts associated with invasive species, including any direct and indirect impacts on low-income, minority, and tribal communities.

(b) Federal agencies shall consider the impacts of climate change when working on issues relevant to the prevention, eradication, and control of invasive species, including in research and

monitoring efforts, and integrate invasive species into Federal climate change coordinating frameworks and initiatives.

(c) Federal agencies shall consider opportunities to apply innovative science and technology when addressing the duties identified in section 2 of Executive Order  , as amended, including, but not limited to, promoting open data and data analytics; harnessing technological advances in remote sensing technologies, molecular tools,  , and predictive analytics; and using tools such as challenge prizes, citizen science, and crowdsourcing.

 . 5.  .

Section 3 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

" . 3.  .

(a) A   (Council) is hereby established. The mission of the   is to provide the vision and leadership to coordinate, sustain, and expand Federal efforts to safeguard the interests of   through the prevention, eradication, and control of invasive species, and through the restoration of ecosystems and other assets impacted by invasive species.

(b) The  's membership shall be composed of the following officials, who may designate a senior-level representative to perform the functions of the member:

(i) Secretary of  ;

(ii) Secretary of the  ;

(iii) Secretary of  ;

(iv) Secretary of the  ;

(v) Secretary of  ;

(vi) Secretary of  ;

(vii) Secretary of  ;

(viii) Secretary of  ;

(ix) Secretary of  ;

(x) Administrator of  ;

(xi) Administrator of  ;

(xii) Administrator of  ;

(xiii)   Representative;

( ) Director or Chair of the following components of   of the President:  ,  , and  ; and

(xv) Officials from such other departments, agencies, offices, or entities as the agencies set forth above, by consensus, deem appropriate.

(c) The   shall be co-chaired by the Secretary of the   (Secretary), the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of  , who shall meet   or more frequently if needed, and who may designate a senior-level representative to perform the functions of  . The   shall meet no less than once  . The Secretary of the   shall, after consultation with  , appoint an Executive Director of the   to oversee a staff that supports the duties of the  . Within   of this order,   of the   shall, with consensus of its members, complete a charter, which shall include any administrative policies and processes necessary to ensure the   can satisfy the functions and responsibilities described in this order.

(d) The Secretary of the   shall maintain the current   established under  , 5 U.S.C. App., to provide information and advice for consideration by the  . The Secretary shall, after consultation with other members of the  , appoint members of the advisory committee who represent diverse stakeholders and who have expertise to advise the  .

(e) Administration of the  .   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   and the advisory committee consistent with existing authorities. To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act, and within existing appropriations, participating agencies may detail staff to   to support the  's efforts."

 . 6. Duties of  

. Section 4 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

" . 4. Duties of  

. The   shall provide national leadership regarding invasive species and shall:

(a) with regard to the implementation of this order, work to ensure that the   agency and interagency activities concerning invasive species are coordinated, complementary, cost-efficient, and effective;

(b) undertake a   in coordination with   periodic national assessment, that evaluates the impact of invasive species on major   assets, including food security, water resources, infrastructure, the environment, human, animal, and plant health, natural resources, cultural identity and resources, and military readiness, from ecological, social, and economic perspectives;

(c) advance national incident response, data collection, and rapid reporting capacities that build on existing frameworks and programs and strengthen early detection of and rapid response to invasive species, including those that are vectors, reservoirs, or causative agents of disease;

(d) publish an assessment by   that identifies the most pressing scientific, technical, and programmatic coordination challenges to   capacity to prevent the introduction of invasive species, and that incorporate recommendations and priority actions to overcome these challenges into  , as appropriate;

(e) support and encourage the development of new technologies and practices, and promote the use of existing technologies and practices, to prevent, eradicate, and control invasive species, including those that are vectors, reservoirs, and causative agents of disease;

(f) convene   to discuss and coordinate interagency priorities and report   on activities and budget requirements for programs that contribute directly to the implementation of this order; and

(g) publish   as set forth in section 5 of this order."

 . 7.  .

Section 5 of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

" . 5.  .

(a) By  , the   shall publish  ), which shall, among other priorities identified by the  , include actions to further the implementation of the duties of  .

(b) The Management Plan shall recommend strategies to:

(1) provide institutional leadership and priority setting;

(2) achieve effective interagency coordination and cost-efficiency;

(3) raise awareness and motivate action, including through the promotion of appropriate transparency, community-level consultation, and stakeholder outreach concerning the benefits and risks to human, animal, or plant health when controlling or eradicating an invasive species;

(4) remove institutional and policy barriers;

(5) assess and strengthen capacities; and

(6) foster scientific, technical, and programmatic innovation.

(c) The   shall evaluate the effectiveness of the   implementation and update the   every 3 years. The   shall provide an   report of its achievements to the public.

(d) Council members may complement the Management Plan with invasive species policies and plans specific to their respective agency's roles, responsibilities, and authorities."

 . 8. Actions of    .

Section 6(d) of Executive Order   is amended to read as follows:

"(d) The duties of section 3(a)(2) and section 3(a)(3) of this order shall not apply to any action of   if the Secretary of   finds that exemption from such requirements is necessary for foreign policy, readiness, or national security reasons. The duties of section 3(a)(2) and section 3(a)(3) of this order shall not apply to any action of   if the Secretary of   finds that exemption from such requirements is necessary for foreign policy, readiness, or national security reasons."

 . 9. Obligations of  .

A new section 6(e) of Executive Order   is added to read as follows:

"(e) The requirements of this order do not affect the obligations of   under   or  , and Cosmetic Act."

 . 10.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
