Section 1

.

Policy

. In order to address cyber threats to public health and safety, national security, and economic security of  , private companies, nonprofit organizations, executive departments and agencies (agencies), and other entities must be able to share information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents and collaborate to respond in as close to real time as possible.

Organizations engaged in the sharing of information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents play an invaluable role in the collective cybersecurity of  . The purpose of this order is to encourage the voluntary formation of such organizations, to establish mechanisms to continually improve the capabilities and functions of these organizations, and to better allow these organizations to partner with   on a voluntary basis.

Such information sharing must be conducted in a manner that protects the privacy and civil liberties of individuals, that preserves business confidentiality, that safeguards the information being shared, and that protects the ability of the Government to detect, investigate, prevent, and respond to cyber threats to the public health and safety, national security, and economic security of  .

This order builds upon the foundation established by Executive Order   of   ( ), and Presidential Policy  ) of   (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience).

Policy coordination, guidance, dispute resolution, and periodic in-progress reviews for the functions and programs described and assigned herein shall be provided through the interagency process established in Presidential Policy Directive-l ( ) of   ( ), or any successor.

 . 2

.

Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations

. (a) The Secretary of   (Secretary) shall strongly encourage the development and formation of Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAOs).

(b) ISAOs may be organized on the basis of sector, sub-sector, region, or any other affinity, including in response to particular emerging threats or vulnerabilities.   membership may be drawn from the public or private sectors, or consist of a combination of public and private sector organizations. ISAOs may be formed as for-profit or nonprofit entities.

(c)   (NCCIC), established under section 226(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (the "Act"), shall engage in continuous, collaborative, and inclusive coordination with ISAOs on the sharing of information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents, addressing such risks and incidents, and strengthening information security systems consistent with sections 212 and 226 of the Act. (d) In promoting the formation of ISAOs, the Secretary shall consult with other Federal entities responsible for conducting cybersecurity activities, including  , independent regulatory agencies at their discretion, and national security and law enforcement agencies.

 . 3

.

ISAO Standards Organization

. (a) The Secretary, in consultation with other Federal entities responsible for conducting cybersecurity and related activities, shall, through an open and competitive process, enter into an agreement with a nongovernmental organization to serve as   (SO), which shall identify a common set of voluntary standards or guidelines for the creation and functioning of ISAOs under this order. The standards shall further the goal of creating robust information sharing related to cybersecurity risks and incidents with ISAOs and among ISAOs to create deeper and broader networks of information sharing nationally, and to foster the development and adoption of automated mechanisms for the sharing of information. The standards will address the baseline capabilities that ISAOs under this order should possess and be able to demonstrate. These standards shall address, but not be limited to, contractual agreements, business processes, operating procedures, technical means, and privacy protections, such as minimization, for   operation and   member participation.

(b) To be selected, the SO must demonstrate the ability to engage and work across the broad community of organizations engaged in sharing information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents, including ISAOs, and associations and private companies engaged in information sharing in support of their customers.

(c) The agreement referenced in section 3(a) shall require that the SO engage in an open public review and comment process for the development of the standards referenced above, soliciting the viewpoints of existing entities engaged in sharing information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents, owners and operators of critical infrastructure, relevant agencies, and other public and private sector stakeholders.

(d) The Secretary shall support the development of these standards and, in carrying out the requirements set forth in this section, shall consult with  ,   in    ,   in  ,  , Sector-Specific Agencies, and other interested Federal entities. All standards shall be consistent with voluntary international standards when such international standards will advance the objectives of this order, and shall meet the requirements of   of 1995 (Public Law 104-113), and OMB Circular A-119, as revised.

 . 4

.

Critical Infrastructure Protection Program

. (a) Pursuant to sections 213 and 214(h) of   of  , I hereby designate the NCCIC as a critical infrastructure protection program and delegate to it authority to enter into voluntary agreements with ISAOs in order to promote critical infrastructure security with respect to cybersecurity.

(b) Other Federal entities responsible for conducting cybersecurity and related activities to address threats to the public health and safety, national security, and economic security, consistent with the objectives of this order, may participate in activities under these agreements.

(c) The Secretary will determine the eligibility of ISAOs and their members for any necessary facility or personnel security clearances associated with voluntary agreements in accordance with Executive Order   of   (  for State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector Entities), and Executive Order   ( ), as amended, including as amended by this order.

 . 5

.

Privacy and Civil Liberties Protections

. (a) Agencies shall coordinate their activities under this order with their senior agency officials for privacy and civil liberties and ensure that appropriate protections for privacy and civil liberties are incorporated into such activities. Such protections shall be based upon the Fair Information Practice Principles and other privacy and civil liberties policies, principles, and frameworks as they apply to each agency's activities.

(b) Senior privacy and civil liberties officials for agencies engaged in activities under this order shall conduct assessments of their agency's activities and provide those assessments to   ( ) Chief Privacy Officer and   for consideration and inclusion in   report required under Executive Order  .

 . 6

.

 

. Executive Order  , as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:

(a) the second paragraph is amended by inserting "the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of  ," after "the National Security Act of  , as amended,";

(b)  . 101(b) is amended to read as follows: "The National Industrial Security Program shall provide for the protection of information classified pursuant to Executive Order  , or any predecessor or successor order, and the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.).";

(c)  . 102(b) is amended by replacing the first paragraph with: "In consultation with  , the Director of  , in accordance with Executive Order  , shall be responsible for implementing and monitoring   and shall:";

(d)  . 102(c) is amended to read as follows: "Nothing in this order shall be construed to supersede the authority of the Secretary of Energy or   under the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), or the authority of the Director of   (or any   element) under   of  , the National Security Act of  , as amended, or Executive Order   of  , as amended, or the authority of the Secretary of  , as the Executive Agent for   established under Executive Order   of   (  for  , Local, Tribal, and Private Sector Entities).";

(e)  . 201(a) is amended to read as follows: "The Secretary of  , in consultation with all affected agencies and with the concurrence of the Secretary of  ,  , the Director of  , and the Secretary of  , shall issue and maintain a   Operating Manual (Manual). The Secretary of   and   shall prescribe and issue that portion of the Manual that pertains to information classified under the Atomic Energy Act of  , as amended (42 U.S.C.  

et seq

.). The Director of   shall prescribe and issue that portion of the Manual that pertains to intelligence sources and methods, including  . The Secretary of   shall prescribe and issue that portion of the Manual that pertains to classified information shared under a designated critical infrastructure protection program.";

(f)  . 201(f) is deleted in its entirety;

(g) Sec. 201(e) is redesignated  . 201(f) and revised by substituting "Executive Order  , or any successor order," for "Executive Order No.   of  .";

(h)  . 201(d) is redesignated  . 201(e) and revised by substituting "the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of  " for "and the Director of  .";

(i) a new  . 201(d) is inserted after  . 201(c) to read as follows: "The Manual shall also prescribe arrangements necessary to permit and enable secure sharing of classified information under a designated critical infrastructure protection program to such authorized individuals and organizations as determined by the Secretary of  .";

(j)  . 202(b) is amended to read as follows: "The Director of   retains authority over access to intelligence sources and methods, including  . The Director of   may inspect and monitor contractor, licensee, and grantee programs and facilities that involve access to such information or may enter into written agreements with the Secretary of  , as Executive Agent, or with the Director of   to inspect and monitor these programs or facilities, in whole or in part, on the Director's behalf.";

(k) Sec.  ) is redesignated as  . 202(e); and

(l) in  . 202 a new subsection (d) is inserted after subsection (c) to read as follows: "The Secretary of   may determine the eligibility for access to   of contractors, licensees, and grantees and their respective employees under a designated critical infrastructure protection program, including parties to agreements with such program; the Secretary of   may inspect and monitor contractor, licensee, and grantee programs and facilities or may enter into written agreements with the Secretary of  , as Executive Agent, or with the Director of  , to inspect and monitor these programs or facilities in whole or in part, on behalf of the Secretary of  ."

Sec. 7

.

Definitions

. (a) "Critical infrastructure information" has the meaning given the term in section 212(3) of   of  .

(b) "Critical infrastructure protection program" has the meaning given the term in section 212(4) of   of  .

(c) "Cybersecurity risk" has the meaning given the term in section 226(a)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as amended by   of  ).

(d) "  Principles" means the eight principles set forth in Appendix A of   in  .

(e) "Incident" has the meaning given the term in section 226(a)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as amended by   of  ). (f) "Information Sharing and Analysis Organization" has the meaning given the term in section 212(5) of   of  .

(g) "Sector-Specific Agency" has the meaning given the term in PPD-21, or any successor.

 . 8

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law or Executive Order to an agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. Nothing in this order shall be construed to alter or limit any authority or responsibility of an agency under existing law including those activities conducted with the private sector relating to criminal and national security threats. Nothing in this order shall be construed to provide an agency with authority for regulating the security of critical infrastructure in addition to or to a greater extent than the authority the agency has under existing law.

(c) All actions taken pursuant to this order shall be consistent with requirements and authorities to protect intelligence and law enforcement sources and methods.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
