Section 1.

Special Interagency Task Force on Detainee Disposition.

(a)

Establishment of Special Interagency Task Force.

There shall be established a Special Task Force on Detainee Disposition (Special Task Force) to identify lawful options for the disposition of individuals captured or apprehended in connection with armed conflicts and counterterrorism operations.

(b)

Membership.

The Special Task Force shall consist of the following members, or their designees:

(i) the Attorney General, who shall serve as  ;

(ii) the Secretary of  , who shall serve as  ;

(iii) the Secretary of  ;

(iv) the Secretary of  ;

(v) the Director of  ;

(vi) the Director of  ;

(vii) the Chairman of  ; and

(viii) other officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  , as determined by either of  , with the concurrence of the head of the department or agency concerned.

(c)

Staff.

Either Co-Chair may designate officers and employees within their respective departments to serve as staff to support the Special Task Force. At the request of  , officers and employees from other departments or agencies may serve on the Special Task Force with the concurrence of the heads of the departments or agencies that employ such individuals. Such staff must be officers or full-time or permanent part-time employees of  .   shall jointly select an officer or employee of     to serve as the Executive Secretary of  .

(d)

Operation.

The Co-Chairs shall convene meetings of  , determine its agenda, and direct its work.   may establish and direct subgroups of the Special Task Force, consisting exclusively of members of  , to deal with particular subjects.

(e)

Mission.

The mission of the Special Task Force shall be to conduct a comprehensive review of the lawful options available to   with respect to the apprehension, detention, trial, transfer, release, or other disposition of individuals captured or apprehended in connection with armed conflicts and counterterrorism operations, and to identify such options as are consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of   and the interests of justice.

(f)

Administration.

The Special Task Force shall be established for administrative purposes within  , and   shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, provide administrative support and funding for the Special Task Force.

(g)

Report.

The Special Task Force shall provide a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for   and the Counsel to the President, on the matters set forth in subsection (d) within   of the date of this order unless   determine that an extension is necessary, and shall provide periodic preliminary reports during  .

(h)

Termination.

The Co-Chairs shall terminate the Special Task Force upon the completion of its duties.

 . 2.

General Provisions.

(a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
