Section 1.

Policy.

Interagency coordination is important for the safe, responsible, and efficient development of oil and natural gas resources in  , both onshore and on the Alaska Outer Continental Shelf ( ), while protecting human health and the environment, as well as indigenous populations. A number of executive departments and agencies (agencies) are charged with ensuring that resource development projects in   comply with health, safety, and environmental protection standards. To formalize and promote ongoing interagency coordination, this order establishes a high-level, interagency working group that will facilitate coordinated and efficient domestic energy development and permitting in   while ensuring that all applicable standards are fully met.

 . 2.

Establishment.

There is established   in   ( ), led by  .

 . 3.

Membership.

(a) The Deputy Secretary of the   shall serve as   and coordinate its work.   shall also include deputy-level representatives or officials at the equivalent level, designated by the head of the respective agency, from:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ; and

(vii)   for  .

(b)   shall work closely with   and assist in the interagency coordination functions described in section 4 of this order. To maximize coordination with   Directive-66 (NSPD-66), "Arctic Region Policy;" Executive Order   ("Stewardship of the Ocean, Our Coasts, and the Great Lakes");  ;   (National Contingency Plan); and other relevant Federal policy initiatives, the   shall also include deputy-level representatives or officials at the equivalent level, designated by the head of the respective agency or office, from:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ; and

(iv)  .

(c)   shall consult with other agencies and offices, as appropriate, in order to facilitate the sharing of information and best practices.

(d) Members of   shall meet periodically and on a schedule coordinated with significant milestones in the various permitting cycles. Staff from the participating agencies shall meet as appropriate to facilitate the functions of  .

 . 4.

Functions.

Consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of participating agencies,   shall perform the following functions:

(a) facilitate orderly and efficient decisionmaking regarding the issuance of permits and conduct of environmental reviews for onshore and offshore energy development projects in  ;

(b) ensure that the schedules and progress of agency regulatory and permitting activities are coordinated appropriately, that they operate efficiently and effectively, and that agencies assist one another, as appropriate;

(c) facilitate the sharing of application and project information among agencies, including information regarding anticipated timelines and milestones;

(d) ensure the sharing and integrity of scientific and environmental information and cultural and traditional knowledge among agencies to support the permit evaluation process of onshore and offshore energy development projects in  ;

(e) engage in longterm planning and ensure coordination with the appropriate Federal entities related to such issues as oil spill prevention, preparedness and response, and the development of necessary infrastructure to adequately support energy development in  ;

(f) coordinate Federal engagement with  , localities, and tribal governments, as it relates to energy development and permitting issues in  , including:

(i) designating a primary point of contact to facilitate coordination with  ;

(ii) designating a primary point of contact to facilitate coordination with local communities, governments, tribes, co-management organizations, and similar   Native organizations;

(g) collaborate on stakeholder outreach; and

(h) promote interagency dialogue with respect to communications with industry regarding   offshore and onshore energy development and permitting issues.

 . 5.

General Provisions.

(a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b)   shall provide administrative support for   to the extent permitted by law.

(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
