Section 1.

Policy

. Over the course of  's history,   men and women have strengthened our  , including by leading reforms, overcoming obstacles, and breaking down barriers. In   since  

decision put   on a path toward equal educational opportunity,  's educational system has undergone a remarkable transformation, and many   children who attended the substandard segregated schools of   have grown up to see their children attend integrated elementary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities.

However, substantial obstacles to equal educational opportunity still remain in  's educational system.   lack equal access to highly effective teachers and principals, safe schools, and challenging college-preparatory classes, and they disproportionately experience school discipline and referrals to special education.   student achievement not only lags behind that of their domestic peers by an average of two grade levels, but also behind students in almost every other developed nation. Over a third of   students do not graduate from high school on time with a regular high school diploma, and only four percent of   high school graduates interested in college are college-ready across a range of subjects. An even greater number of   males do not graduate with a regular high school diploma, and   males also experience disparate rates of incarceration.

Significantly improving the educational outcomes of   will provide substantial benefits for our country by, among other things, increasing college completion rates, productivity, employment rates, and the number of   teachers. Enhanced educational outcomes lead to more productive careers, improved economic opportunity, and greater social well-being for all  . Complementing the role of   and Universities (HBCUs) in preparing generations of   students for successful careers, and the work of my  's separate   Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities, this new  's focus on improving all the sequential levels of education will produce a more effective educational continuum for all   students.

To reach the ambitious education goals we have set for our Nation, as well as to ensure equality of access and opportunity for all, we must provide the support that will enable   students to improve their level of educational achievement through rigorous and well-rounded academic and support services that will prepare them for college, a career, and a lifetime of learning.

 . 2

.

White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for  

.

(a)

Establishment

. There is hereby established   Initiative on Educational Excellence for   (Initiative), to be housed in  ). There shall be an Executive Director of the  , to be appointed by the Secretary of   (Secretary). The Initiative shall be supported by   established under subsection (c) of this section and advised by the   established under section 3 of this order.

(b)

Mission and Functions

.

(1) The   will help to restore   to its role as the global leader in education; strengthen the   by improving educational outcomes for   of all ages; and help ensure that   receive a complete and competitive education that prepares them for college, a satisfying career, and productive citizenship.

(2) The   will complement and reinforce   and Universities Initiative established by Executive Order 13532 of  , and together, they both will support enhanced educational outcomes for   at every level of the   education system, including early childhood education; elementary, secondary, and postsecondary education; career and technical education; and adult education.

(3) To help expand educational opportunities, improve educational outcomes, and deliver a complete and competitive education for  , the   shall, consistent with applicable law, promote, encourage, and undertake efforts designed to meet the following objectives:

(i) increasing general understanding of the causes of the educational challenges faced by   students, whether they are in urban, suburban, or rural learning environments;

(ii) increasing the percentage of   children who enter kindergarten ready for success by improving their access to high-quality programs and services that enable early learning and development of children from birth through  ;

(iii) decreasing the disproportionate number of referrals of   children from general education to special education by addressing the root causes of the referrals and eradicating discriminatory referrals;

(iv) implementing successful and innovative education reform strategies and practices in  's public schools to ensure that   students receive a rigorous and well-rounded education in safe and healthy environments, and have access to high-level, rigorous course work and support services that will prepare them for college, a career, and civic participation;

(v) ensuring that all   students have comparable access to the resources necessary to obtain a high-quality education, including effective teachers and school leaders, in part by supporting efforts to improve the recruitment, preparation, development, and retention of successful   teachers and school leaders and other effective teachers and school leaders responsible for the education of   students;

(vi) reducing the dropout rate of   students and helping   students graduate from high school prepared for college and a career, in part by promoting a positive school climate that does not rely on methods that result in disparate use of disciplinary tools, and by supporting successful and innovative dropout prevention and recovery strategies that better engage   youths in their learning, help them catch up academically, and provide those who have left the educational system with pathways to reentry;

(vii) increasing college access and success for   students and providing support to help ensure that a greater percentage of   complete college and contribute to the goal of having   again lead the world in the proportion of adults who are college graduates by  , in part through strategies to strengthen the capacity of institutions of higher education that serve large numbers of   students, including community colleges, HBCUs, Predominantly Black Institutions (PBIs), and other institutions; and

(viii) enhancing the educational and life opportunities of   by fostering positive family and community engagement in education; reducing racial isolation and resegregation of elementary and secondary schools to promote understanding and tolerance among all  ; improving the quality of, and expanding access to, adult education, literacy, and career and technical education; and increasing opportunities for education and career advancement in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.

(4) In working to fulfill its mission and objectives, the   shall, consistent with applicable law:

(i) identify evidence-based best practices that can provide   students a rigorous and well-rounded education in safe and healthy environments, as well as access to support services, which will prepare them for college, a career, and civic participation;

(ii) develop a national network of individuals, organizations, and communities to share and implement best practices related to the education of  , including those identified as most at risk;

(iii) help ensure that Federal programs and initiatives administered by the   and other agencies are serving and meeting the educational needs of  , including by encouraging agencies to incorporate best practices into appropriate discretionary programs where permitted by law;

(iv) work closely with   of the President on key Administration priorities related to the education of  ;

(v) increase the participation of the   community, including institutions that serve that community, in the  's programs and in education-related programs at other agencies;

(vi) advise the officials of the   and other agencies on issues related to the educational attainment of  ;

(vii) advise the Secretary on the development, implementation, and coordination of educational programs and initiatives at the   and other agencies that are designed to improve educational opportunities and outcomes for   of all ages; and

(viii) encourage and develop partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit stakeholders to improve  ' readiness for school, college, and career, as well as their college persistence and completion.

(5) The Initiative shall periodically publish reports on its activities. The Secretary and the Executive Director of the  , in consultation with   and   established under subsection (c) of this section and section 3 of this order, respectively, may develop and submit to the President recommendations designed to advance and promote educational opportunities and attainment for  .

(c)

Interagency  

.

(1) There is established     ( ), which shall be convened and chaired by the  's Executive Director and that shall support the efforts of the   described in subsection (b) of this section.

(2) The   shall consist of senior officials from the  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and such additional agencies and offices as the President may subsequently designate. Senior officials shall be designated by the heads of their respective agencies and offices.

(3) The  's Executive Director may establish subgroups of   to focus on different aspects of the educational system (such as early childhood education, K-12 education, higher education (including HBCUs and PBIs), career and technical education, adult education, or correctional education and reengagement) or educational challenges facing particular populations of   (such as young men, disconnected or out-of-school youth, individuals with disabilities, children identified as gifted and talented, single-parent households, or adults already in the workforce).

(d)

Administration

. The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   and  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. To the extent permitted by law, other agencies and offices represented on   may detail personnel to the  , to assist the   in meeting the objectives of this order.

(e)

Collaboration Among White House Initiatives

. The   may collaborate with   on     and  , Educational Excellence for  ,  -American and  , and (consistent with section 3(c) of this order) Historically Black Colleges and Universities, whenever appropriate in light of their shared objectives.

 . 3

.

President's    

.

(a)

Establishment

. There is established in the Department the President's     (Commission).

(b)

Commission Mission and Scope

. The   shall advise the President and the Secretary on matters pertaining to the educational attainment of the   community, including:

(1) the development, implementation, and coordination of educational programs and initiatives at the   and other agencies to improve educational opportunities and outcomes for   of all ages;

(2) efforts to increase the participation of the   community and institutions that serve the   community in the  's programs and in education programs at other agencies;

(3) efforts to engage the philanthropic, business, nonprofit, and education communities in a national dialogue on the mission and objectives of this order; and

(4) the establishment of partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit stakeholders to meet the mission and policy objectives of this order.

The   shall meet periodically, but at least twice a year.

(c)

Commission Membership and Chair

.

(1) The   shall consist of not more than 25 members appointed by the President. The President shall designate one member of the   to serve as  . The Executive Director of the Initiative shall also serve as the Executive Director of the   and administer the work of the  . The Chair of the Commission shall work with the Executive Director to convene regular meetings of the  , determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order.

(2) The   may include individuals with relevant experience or subject-matter expertise that the President deems appropriate, as well as individuals who may serve as representatives of a variety of sectors, including the education sector (early childhood education, elementary and secondary education, higher education (including HBCUs and PBIs), career and technical education, and adult education), labor organizations, research institutions, the military, corporate and financial institutions, public and private philanthropic organizations, and nonprofit and community-based organizations at the national,  , regional, or local levels.

(3) In addition to the 25 members appointed by the President, the   shall also include two members from   and  ), designated by the President. In turn, the   will henceforth include two members from the  , designated by the President. This reciprocal arrangement will foster direct communication and vital consultations that will benefit both bodies.

(4) The Executive Director of the   and the Executive Director of the   shall convene at least one   joint meeting between the   and the Board for the purpose of sharing information and forging collaborative courses of action designed to fulfill their respective missions. Such meetings shall be in addition to other prescribed meetings of the  .

(5) The Executive Director of the   shall be a non-voting, ex officio member of the   and shall be the  's liaison to the  ; and the Executive Director of the   shall be a non-voting, ex officio member of the   and shall be the  's liaison to the  .

(d)

Commission Administration

. The   shall provide funding and administrative support for the  , to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. Members of the   shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C.  ). Insofar as  , as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the "Act"), may apply to the administration of the  , any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary, in accordance with the guidelines issued by  .

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the   as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the  , consistent with applicable law.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
