Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established within  ,  , and  ).

 . 2.

Membership.

(a) The Surgeon General shall serve as  , which shall be composed of:

(1) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(2) the Secretary of  ;

(3) the Secretary of  ;

(4) the Secretary of  ;

(5) the Secretary of  ;

(6) the Secretary of  ;

(7) the Administrator of  ;

(8) the Chair of the Federal Trade Commission;

(9) the Director of  ;

(10) the Assistant to the President and Director of  ;

(11) the Assistant Secretary of  ;

(12) the Chairman of  ; and

(13) the head of any other executive department or agency that the   may, from time to time, determine is appropriate.

(b) The   shall meet at the call of the  .

 . 3.

Purposes and Duties.

The   shall:

(a) provide coordination and leadership at the Federal level, and among all executive departments and agencies, with respect to prevention, wellness, and health promotion practices, the public health system, and integrative health care in  ;

(b) develop, after obtaining input from relevant stakeholders, a national prevention, health promotion, public health, and integrative health-care strategy that incorporates the most effective and achievable means of improving the health status of   and reducing the incidence of preventable illness and disability in  , as further described in section 5 of this order;

(c) provide recommendations to the President and the   concerning the most pressing health issues confronting   and changes in Federal policy to achieve national wellness, health promotion, and public health goals, including the reduction of tobacco use, sedentary behavior, and poor nutrition;

(d) consider and propose evidence-based models, policies, and innovative approaches for the promotion of transformative models of prevention, integrative health, and public health on individual and community levels across  ;

(e) establish processes for continual public input, including input from  , regional, and local leadership communities and other relevant stakeholders, including   tribes and tribal organizations;

(f) submit the reports required by section 6 of this order; and

(g) carry out such other activities as are determined appropriate by the President.

 . 4.

Advisory Group.

(a) There is established within   an Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and  ), which shall report to  .

(b) The   shall be composed of not more than 25 members or representatives from outside   appointed by the President and shall include a diverse group of licensed health professionals, including integrative health practitioners who are representative of or have expertise in:

(1) worksite health promotion;

(2) community services, including community health centers;

(3) preventive medicine;

(4) health coaching;

(5) public health education;

(6) geriatrics; and

(7) rehabilitation medicine.

(c) The   shall develop policy and program recommendations and advise the   on lifestyle-based chronic disease prevention and management, integrative health care practices, and health promotion.

 . 5.

 .

Not  , the  , in consultation with the  , shall develop and make public a national prevention, health promotion, and public health strategy (national strategy), and shall review and revise it periodically. The national strategy shall:

(a) set specific goals and objectives for improving the health of   through federally supported prevention, health promotion, and public health programs, consistent with ongoing goal setting efforts conducted by specific agencies;

(b) establish specific and measurable actions and timelines to carry out the strategy, and determine accountability for meeting those timelines, within and across   departments and agencies; and

(c) make recommendations to improve Federal efforts relating to prevention, health promotion, public health, and integrative health-care practices to ensure that Federal efforts are consistent with available standards and evidence.

 . 6.

Reports.

Not later than July 1,  , and   thereafter until  , the   shall submit to the President and the relevant committees of the  , a report that:

(a) describes the activities and efforts on prevention, health promotion, and public health and activities to develop the national strategy conducted by the   during the period for which the report is prepared;

(b) describes the national progress in meeting specific prevention, health promotion, and public health goals defined in the national strategy and further describes corrective actions recommended by the   and actions taken by relevant agencies and organizations to meet these goals;

(c) contains a list of national priorities on health promotion and disease prevention to address lifestyle behavior modification (including smoking cessation, proper nutrition, appropriate exercise, mental health, behavioral health, substance-use disorder, and domestic violence screenings) and the prevention measures for the five leading disease killers in  ;

(d) contains specific science-based initiatives to achieve the measurable goals of the Healthy People 2020 program of   regarding nutrition, exercise, and smoking cessation, and targeting the five leading disease killers in  ;

(e) contains specific plans for consolidating Federal health programs and centers that exist to promote healthy behavior and reduce disease risk (including eliminating programs and offices determined to be ineffective in meeting the priority goals of the Healthy People   program of  );

(f) contains specific plans to ensure that all   health-care programs are fully coordinated with science-based prevention recommendations by the Director of  ; and

(g) contains specific plans to ensure that all prevention programs outside   are based on the science-based guidelines developed by   under subsection (d) of this section.

 . 7.

Administration.

(a)   shall provide funding and administrative support for the   and   to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(b) All executive departments and agencies shall provide information and assistance to the   as the   may request for purposes of carrying out the  's functions, to the extent permitted by law.

(c) Members of   shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in   service (5 U.S.C.  ), consistent with the availability of funds.

 . 8.

General Provisions.

(a) Insofar as  , as amended (5  .) may apply to  , any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the  , shall be performed by the Secretary of   in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by  .

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
