Section 1

.

Policy

. As articulated in   and implemented in Presidential Policy Directive 2 (PPD-2), promoting global health security is a core tenet of our national strategy for countering biological threats. No single nation can be prepared if other nations remain unprepared to counter biological threats; therefore, it is the policy of   to advance   ( ), which is a multi-faceted, multi-country initiative intended to accelerate partner countries' measurable capabilities to achieve specific targets to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats (  targets), whether naturally occurring, deliberate, or accidental. The roles, responsibilities, and activities described in this order will support the goals of   (IHR) and will be conducted, as appropriate, in coordination with  ),   ( ),   ( ),  ,   ( ), and other relevant organizations and stakeholders. To advance the achievement of the   targets and to support the implementation of the   within partner countries, each executive department, agency, and office (agency) shall, as appropriate, partner, consult, and coordinate with other governments, international financial institutions, international organizations, regional organizations, economic communities, and nongovernmental stakeholders, including the private sector.

 . 2

.

 

.

(a)

GHSA Coordination and Policy Development

. In furtherance of the policy described in section 1 of this order, I hereby direct   staff, in accordance with the procedures and requirements in Presidential Policy Directive 1 (or any successor directive), to convene a  ) to perform the responsibilities described in this order. The Assistant to the President for  , in coordination with the Assistant to the President for   and  , shall designate a member of   staff to serve as  . The   shall meet not less than four times per year to advance its mission and fulfill its responsibilities.

(b)

 .

(i) The   shall be responsible for the following activities:

(A) Provide, by consensus, policy-level guidance to participating agencies on   goals, objectives, and implementation.

(B) Facilitate interagency, multi-sectoral engagement to carry out   implementation. (C) Provide a forum for raising and working to resolve interagency disagreements concerning the  .

(D) Review the progress toward and work to resolve challenges in achieving   commitments under the  , including commitments to assist other countries in achieving the   targets. The   shall consider, among other issues, the status of   financial commitments to the   in the context of commitments by other donors, and the contributions of partner countries to achieve the   targets; progress toward the milestones outlined in   national plans for those countries where   has committed to assist in implementing the   and in   work-plans outlining agency priorities for implementing the  ; and external evaluations of   and partner country capabilities to address infectious disease threats, including the ability to achieve the targets outlined within   (JEE) tool, as well as gaps identified by such external evaluations.

(E) Provide, by consensus, within   of the date of this order, initial policy-level guidance on   implementation.

(F) Develop a report on an   basis regarding the progress achieved and challenges concerning   ability to advance the   across priority countries. The report shall include recommendations to resolve, mitigate, or otherwise address the challenges identified therein. The report shall be transmitted to the President and, to the extent possible, made publicly available.

(G) Conduct an overall review of the   for submission to the President by  . The review should include an evaluation of the progress achieved during   of this initiative, as well as any challenges faced. The report should also provide recommendations on the future direction of the initiative.

(ii) The   shall not perform any activities or functions that interfere with the foreign affairs responsibilities of the Secretary of  , including the responsibility to oversee the implementation of programs and policies that advance the   within foreign countries.

(c)

Participation

. The   shall consist of representatives, serving at the Assistant Secretary level or higher, from the following agencies:

(i)  ;

(ii)  ;

(iii)  ;

(iv)  ;

(v)  ;

(vi)  ;

(vii)  ;

(viii)    ; (ix)  ;

(x)  ;

(xi)  ;

(xii)  ; and

(xiii) such other agencies as the agencies set forth above, by consensus, deem appropriate.

 . 3

.

Agency Roles and Responsibilities

. In furtherance of the policy described in section 1 of this order, I hereby direct agencies to perform the following:

(a) The heads of agencies described in section 2(c) of this order shall:

(i) make the   and its implementation a high priority within their respective agencies, and include  -related activities within their respective agencies' strategic planning and budget processes;

(ii) designate a senior-level official to be responsible for the implementation of this order;

(iii) designate, in accordance with section 2(c) of this order, an appropriate representative at the Assistant Secretary level or higher to participate on the  ;

(iv) keep the   apprised of  -related activities undertaken within their respective agencies;

(v) maintain responsibility for agency-related programmatic functions in coordination with host governments, country teams, and   in-country teams, and in conjunction with other relevant agencies;

(vi) coordinate with other agencies that are identified in this order to satisfy programmatic goals, and further facilitate coordination of country teams, implementers, and donors in host countries; and

(vii) coordinate across   national plans and with   partners to which   is providing assistance.

(b) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) engage  , country teams, and regional and functional bureaus within   to promote the   with international partners and to facilitate country-level implementation of   programmatic activities;

(ii) monitor and evaluate progress toward achieving   targets, determine where more work is needed, and work with agencies and international partners to identify the partners best placed to improve performance and to achieve the   targets for countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(iii) facilitate implementation and coordination of   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(iv) coordinate planning, implementation, and evaluation of   activities with the   Global Malaria Coordinator at     and   at   in countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(v) lead diplomatic outreach, including at senior levels, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, to build international support for the   with its members, other countries, and regional and multilateral bodies, including   (G7),  ),  , the  , the  , the  ,  ,  ,  , the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation,  ,  ,  , development banks, and other relevant partners;

(vi) work, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, with other donors and nongovernmental implementers in partner countries in order to leverage commitments to advance the   with partners; and

(vii) coordinate, in conjunction with other relevant agencies,   relationship with foreign and domestic   nongovernmental stakeholders, including the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and foundations, and develop, with consensus from the  , an annual   nongovernmental outreach strategy.

(c) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) facilitate implementation and coordination of   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(ii) work, in conjunction with interagency partners and the in-country GHSA team, with other donors and nongovernmental implementers in partner countries in which   programs are active in order to coordinate and leverage commitments to advance the   with partners; and

(iii) coordinate and communicate, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, with defense ministries with regard to the  , including at  .

(d) The Attorney General, generally acting through the Director of  ), shall:

(i) serve, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, as   lead for   targets relating to linking public health and law enforcement, and coordinate with   on the   and its successful implementation;

(ii) facilitate implementation and coordination of   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist; and

(iii) work, in conjunction with interagency partners and the in-country GHSA team, with other donors and nongovernmental implementers in partner countries in which   programs are active in order to coordinate and leverage commitments to advance the   with partners.

(e) The Secretary of Agriculture shall:

(i) represent, in conjunction with other relevant agencies,   in coordination and communication with the   and   with regard to the  ;

(ii) facilitate implementation and coordination of   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist; and

(iii) work, in conjunction with interagency partners and the in-country GHSA team, with other donors, contributing international organizations, and nongovernmental implementers in partner countries in which   programs are active in order to coordinate and leverage commitments to advance the   with partners.

(f) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) represent, in conjunction with other relevant agencies,   at   meetings and in working with   G20 Health Ministers on the  , and coordinate   support for those activities;

(ii) provide overall leadership and coordination for the GHSA Action Packages (Action Packages), which consist of country commitments to advance and share best practices toward specific   targets, including serving as the primary point of contact for the Action Packages, providing support to   leaders, and tracking overall progress on the Action Packages;

(iii) coordinate   support for and participation in external evaluations, including   tool and   and IHR Implementation;

(iv) represent, in conjunction with other relevant agencies,   in coordination and communication with the   regarding the  ;

(v) facilitate, no less than every 4 years, the request for an external assessment, such as the process outlined within   tool, of   domestic efforts to implement the   and the   and work to publish the assessment to the general public; and

(vi) consolidate and publish to the general public an external assessment of   domestic capability to address infectious disease threats and implement the IHR, including the ability to achieve the targets outlined within   tool and including the gaps identified by such external assessment.

(g) The Secretary of   shall:

(i) assess the impacts of global health threats on homeland security operations; and

(ii) lead, in conjunction with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  ,   activities related to global health threats at   borders and ports of entry.

(h) The Administrator for     shall:

(i) facilitate implementation and coordination of   for   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(ii) provide, in conjunction with other agencies, strategic technical guidance for achieving   targets; and

(iii) work, in conjunction with interagency partners and the in-country GHSA teams, with other donors and nongovernmental   implementers in partner countries in which   for   programs are active in order to coordinate and leverage commitments to advance the   with partners.

(i) The Director of  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , shall:

(i) facilitate implementation and coordination of   programs to further the  , as well as provide technical expertise to measure and evaluate progress in countries   has made a commitment to assist;

(ii) provide, in conjunction with other agencies, strategic technical guidance for achieving   targets;

(iii) provide, in coordination with  , strategic technical support for and participate in external assessments, including   tool, and   and IHR implementation; and

(iv) work, in conjunction with interagency partners and the in-country GHSA team, with other donors and nongovernmental implementers in partner countries in which   programs are active in order to coordinate and leverage commitments to advance the   with partners.

 . 4

.

General Provisions

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair, or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof;

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or

(iii) the coordination or implementation of emergency response operations during a health emergency.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law, and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
