2d Session
H. RES. 1220
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 10, 2024
Mr. Mills
(for himself and
Mr. Crane
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors and that the following article of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Article of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., President of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.
I—Abuse of power
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the President
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In his conduct of the office of President of the United States--and in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of President of the United States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed-- Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr. has abused the powers of the Presidency, in that:
Using the powers of his high office, President Biden solicited a
quid pro quo
with the foreign government of Israel by withholding precision guided weapons shipments in order to try and extract military policy changes. President Biden sought to pressure the Government of Israel to take steps by conditioning official United States Government acts of significant value to Israel. After initial reports surfaced, President Biden confirmed them and openly stated
I made it clear that if they go into Rafah—they haven’t gone in Rafah yet—if they go into Rafah, I’m not supplying the weapons that have been used historically to deal with Rafah, to deal with the cities—that deal with that problem.
In so doing, President Biden used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the national security of the United States and its ally Israel. He thus ignored and injured the interests of the Nation.
Wherefore President Biden, by such conduct, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
.
