Impeaching Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States, for facilitating the weaponization and politicization of the United States justice system against the American people.
That Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States, is impeached for facilitating the weaponization and politicization of the United States justice system against the American people, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Merrick Brian Garland, Attorney General of the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for facilitating the weaponization and politicization of the United States justice system against the American people.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the Attorney General, as a civil officer of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
.
In his conduct as Attorney General of the United States, in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of the Attorney General of the United States, and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend, the Constitution of the United States, Merrick Brian Garland continues to materially endanger the justice system of the United States and empower President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., to persecute his political adversaries at will.
Article I
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as Attorney General on March 11, 2021, Attorney General Garland has willingly refused to ensure that the laws passed by Congress and signed by the President are faithfully executed.
Attorney General Garland has failed to uphold his oath and has instead overseen a denigration of the principles of our democratic republic by politicizing the Department of Justice, and utilizing the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a Federal police force to punish or intimidate anyone who questions or opposes the current regime.
Attorney General Garland issued an October 2021 memorandum directing the targeting of parents by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Garland’s memorandum was prompted by a letter to President Joe Biden by the National School Boards Association (NSBA). That letter drew comparisons between parents protesting actions by their local school boards to domestic terrorism. Attorney General Garland has declared war on American parents and the constitutional right of free speech.
Attorney General Garland has disgracefully permitted the Department of Justice to target people of faith and those seeking to protect the sanctity of life. Garland’s Department of Justice refused to designate violent pro-abortion groups such as Jane’s Revenge as domestic terrorist organizations. As of early May, there have been at least 85 attacks on pregnancy resource centers and 152 attacks on Catholic churches since the May 2022 Dobbs leak. Many of these buildings have been vandalized with threats such as,
If abortions aren’t safe, neither are you
, making the attacks incidents of suspected pro-abortion violence.
Attorney General Garland has refused to prosecute leftist extremists that harassed and threatened Supreme Court Justices at their homes in the wake of Dobbs decision.
Rather than focusing on prosecuting Antifa and Black Lives Matters rioters that have desecrated American cities and caused billions of dollars worth of public and private property damage, Attorney General Garland has overseen the persecution of Americans for participating in political protest.
Attorney General Garland has taken measures to silence the voices of millions of citizens of the United States by persecuting the former duly elected and lawful President of the United States, and Presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump.
Attorney General Garland has engaged in abuse of power by becoming a tool of the Biden regime’s two-tiered justice system.
Article II
Attorney General Garland, in persecuting former President Donald J. Trump over documents he legally declassified, has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with his duties as a civil officer of the United States.
Attorney General Garland has refused to prosecute the Biden family and its associates for the crimes they have committed at the expense of the American people.
Attorney General Garland, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States without partisan bias.
Attorney General Garland’s actions run counter to the steps that employees of the Executive branch must take to avoid
an appearance of loss of impartiality
.
Attorney General Garland’s failure to address the conflict of interest arising from the persecution of his employer, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s, political adversary, Donald J. Trump, demonstrates that he is unfit to hold the office of Attorney General.
Attorney General Garland, by such conduct, has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the justice system of the United States of America if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with democracy, self-governance, and the rule of law.
Wherefore, Merrick Brian Garland, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
