By motion of the House, referred to the Committee on Homeland Security
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article I
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as Secretary of Homeland Security, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with the laws of the United States, as follows:
Article II of the Constitution requires that the Executive branch, which today includes the Secretary of Homeland Security, ensure the laws passed by Congress and signed into law by the President are faithfully executed.
The Secure Fence Act of 2006 (
Public Law 109–367
) requires that the Secretary of Homeland Security
maintain operational control over the entire international land and maritime borders of the United States
.
In his willful admittance of border crossers, terrorists, human traffickers, drugs, and other contraband, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas has failed to maintain operational control of the border, thereby violating the Secure Fence Act of 2006.
The Guarantee Clause set forth in article IV, section 4 of the Constitution dictates,
The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence
.
The Guarantee Clause clearly dictates that the Federal Government has a constitutional duty and obligation to protect each of the States from invasion. As Secretary of the Department of Homeland Secretary, Alejandro Mayorkas, has violated his oath to uphold this constitutional duty by allowing the invasion of approximately 10,000,000 illegals across our borders. The ongoing invasion at our southern border is a direct national security threat against the States and against the citizens therein. Secretary Mayorkas has willfully abandoned his duty to secure the border and protect States against invasion, thereby violating article IV, section 4 of the Constitution.
To wit, since Mayorkas has headed the Department of Homeland Security, there have been—
(1)
approximately 10,000,000 illegal border crosser who have invaded our country at our border, this is broken down between 8,000,000 encounters and approximately 1,800,000 known
gotaways
who have evaded United States authorities and are roaming the interior of the United States;
(2)
at least 280 people on terrorist watchlists caught while attempting to cross the border between ports of entry;
(3)
approximately 400,000 unaccompanied illegal children encountered at the southern border, with at least 85,000 of these children having gone missing;
(4)
at least 1,424 deaths of illegals at the southern border;
(5)
approximately 73,000
special interest aliens
arrested at our border, which are aliens from a nation that promotes terrorist activity, harbors terrorists, or poses a security threat to the United States, this is the number arrested at the border, not counting however many of the 1,800,000 known
gotaways
are special interest aliens;
(6)
approximately 659 special interest aliens from Iran;
(7)
approximately 6,386 special interest aliens from Afghanistan;
(8)
approximately 538 special interest aliens from Syria;
(9)
approximately 3,153 special interest aliens from Egypt;
(10)
approximately 12,624 special interest aliens from Uzbekistan;
(11)
approximately 30,830 special interest aliens from Turkey;
(12)
approximately 1,613 special interest aliens from Pakistan;
(13)
approximately 164 special interest aliens from Lebanon;
(14)
approximately 185 special interest aliens from Jordan;
(15)
approximately 123 special interest aliens from Iraq; and
(16)
approximately 15,594 special interest aliens from Mauritania.
In fiscal year 2021, Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) seized approximately 11,200 pounds of fentanyl. In fiscal year 2022, CBP seized approximately 14,700 pounds of fentanyl. In fiscal year 2023, CBP has seized a record of approximately 27,000 pounds of fentanyl. Over 70,000 Americans died from fentanyl in fiscal year 2022. Fentanyl is now the number one killer of Americans between the ages of 18 and 45. Fentanyl kills approximately 300 Americans a day. This is the amount of fentanyl that has been seized at the border, yet 300 Americans are still being killed by fentanyl poisoning every day. The amount of unseized fentanyl has not even been taken into account.
The Constitution also requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to observe the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.
). This law requires Homeland Security to detain inadmissible aliens arriving in the United States or illegal aliens presently in the United States. Instead, the Department of Homeland Security, under Secretary Mayorkas, has practiced catch and release policies, whereby illegals are detained, but then released, without any mechanism to ensure they show up to court for processing.
By terminating contracts for border wall construction, ending the Migrant Protection Protocols (Remain in Mexico), unlawfully granting categorical parole, and being complicit in ending title 42, Mayorkas has made it easier for illegal people and drugs to enter the United States, endangering American citizens, and has made it harder for CBP to expel such threats.
Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, in his inability to enforce the law, has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with his duties as a civil officer of the United States.
Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.
Wherefore, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
