Impeaching Christopher Asher Wray, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, for facilitating the development of a Federal police force to intimidate, harass, and entrap American citizens that are deemed enemies of the Biden regime.
That Christopher Asher Wray, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is impeached for facilitating the development of a Federal police force to intimidate, harass, and entrap American citizens that are deemed enemies of the Biden regime, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Christopher Asher Wray, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for facilitating the development of a Federal police force to intimidate, harass, and entrap American citizens that are deemed enemies of the Biden regime.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and that the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as a civil officer of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
.
In his conduct as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in violation of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the office of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend, the Constitution of the United States, Christopher Asher Wray continues to materially endanger the justice system of the United States and empower President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., to persecute his political adversaries at will.
Article I
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on August 2, 2017, Director Wray has willingly refused to ensure that the laws passed by Congress and signed by the President are faithfully executed.
Director Wray has failed to uphold his oath and has instead overseen a denigration of the principles of our democratic republic by utilizing the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a Federal police force to punish or intimidate anyone who questions or opposes the current regime.
Director Wray has become a lackey of the Biden regime, persecuting the enemies of his handlers, including both public and private citizens. The FBI has taken unprecedented actions to this end:
The FBI conducted an unprecedented raid on the home of the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, on August 8, 2022.
FBI whistleblower Garret O’ Boyle told congressional investigators that the FBI created a terrorist threat tag following the Dobbs Supreme Court decision in 2022. O’Boyle confirmed that the purpose of the tag was to target pro-life individuals.
On September 23, 2022, armed FBI agents in tactical gear raided the family home of Mark Houck, a pro-life Catholic and father of 7 young children, ostensibly because he obstructed access to an abortion clinic.
Former FBI special agent and federal whistleblower Kyle Seraphin obtained a leaked FBI document that targets Traditional Latin Mass Catholics. The document, titled
Racially or Ethnically Motivated Violent Extremists (RMVE) and their interests in
Radical-Traditionalist Catholics
or RTCs,
was reported out of the Richmond Field Office and dated for January 23, 2023. This leaked document outlined a plan for the FBI to spy on Catholics, particularly Latin Mass-attending Catholics, who, according to the document, have harbored
white supremacy
. The FBI document indicated intentions to have informants within the Catholic Church, on advice from the Southern Poverty Law Center.
In October 2020, a group of men allegedly attempted to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer. Several of the men were acquitted in their cases, as the FBI was found to have entrapped them in the scheme. Most of the members involved with the plot were FBI informants.
Not only has Director Wray persecuted political opponents in an unprecedented and partisan way, but he has also overseen his agency take actions to shield and protect the current President and his family. A senior FBI official left the agency under a cloud of accusations that he shielded a laptop belonging to the President’s son, Robert Hunter Biden, from a criminal probe.
It is unacceptable for the Director of the FBI or any civil officer to exercise his power in a way that targets one political class while doing favors for the other.
Wherefore, given the abovementioned unprecedented actions taken by the FBI to subvert freedom and democracy, and the fact that the American people deserve a transparent justice system and law enforcement that keeps them safe, not entraps them in serious criminal activity, Director Christopher Asher Wray merits impeachment.
Article II
Director Wray, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.
Director Wray’s actions run counter to the steps that employees of the executive branch must take to avoid
an appearance of loss of impartiality
.
Director Wray, has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the justice system of the United States of America if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with democracy, self-governance, and the rule of law.
Wherefore, Christopher Asher Wray, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
