Executive Order— : 356
 
 

WAR DEPARTMENT,

 -GENERAL'S OFFICE

I. Before a military commission which convened at  ,  ,  , pursuant to paragraph 4 of Special Orders, No. 211, dated  , and paragraph 91 of Special Orders, No. 216, dated  ,  .  ,  , and of which Major-General  ,  , is president, were arraigned and tried  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .

CHARGE I.

For maliciously, unlawfully, and traitorously, and in aid of the existing armed rebellion against  , on or before  , A. D.  , and on divers other days between that day and  , A. D.  , combining, confederating, and conspiring together with one  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and others unknown to kill and murder, within   of Washington, and within the fortified and intrenched lines thereof.  , late, and at the time of said combining, confederating, and conspiring, President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   thereof;  , now Vice-President of   aforesaid;  , Secretary of   of   aforesaid; and  , Lieu-tenant-General of the Army of   aforesaid, then in command of the armies of  , under the direction of the said  ; and in pursuance of and in prosecuting said malicious, unlawful, and traitorous conspiracy aforesaid, and in aid of said rebellion, afterwards, to wit, on  , within   of Washington aforesaid, and within the fortified and intrenched lines of said military department, together with said   and  , maliciously, unlawfully, and traitorously murdering the said  , then President of   and Commander in Chief of the   and   of   as aforesaid; and maliciously, unlawfully, and traitorously assaulting, with intent to kill and murder, the said  , then Secretary of   of   as aforesaid; and lying in wait, with intent maliciously, unlawfully, and traitorously to kill and murder the said  , then being Vice-President of  , and the said  , then being   and in command of the armies of   as aforesaid.

SPECIFICATION FIRST.

In this, that they, the said  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , together with the said   and  , incited and encouraged thereunto by  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and others unknown, citizens of   aforesaid, and who were then engaged in armed rebellion against  , within the limits thereof, did, in aid of said armed rebellion, on or before  , A. D.  , and on divers other days and times between   and  , A. D.  , combine, confederate, and conspire together at  , within   of Washington, and within the intrenched fortifications and military lines of the said   there being, unlawfully, maliciously, and traitorously to kill and murder  , then President of   aforesaid and Commander in Chief of the   and   thereof; and unlawfully, maliciously, and traitorously to kill and murder  , now Vice-President of the said  , upon whom, on the death of said  , after  , A. D.  , the office of President of the said   and Commander in Chief of the   and   thereof would devolve; and to unlawfully, maliciously, and traitorously kill and murder  , then  , and, under the direction of the said  , in command of the armies of   aforesaid; and unlawfully, maliciously, and traitorously to kill and murder  , then Secretary of   of   aforesaid, whose duty it was by law, upon the death of said President and Vice-President of   aforesaid, to cause an election to be held for electors of President of  --the conspirators aforesaid designing and intending by the killing and murder of the said  ,  ,  , and  , as aforesaid, to deprive the   and   of the said   of a constitutional Commander in Chief, and to deprive the armies of   of their lawful commander, and to prevent a lawful election of President and Vice-President of   aforesaid, and by the means aforesaid to aid and comfort the insurgents engaged in armed rebellion against the said   as aforesaid, and thereby to aid in the subversion and overthrow of the Constitution and laws of the said  .

And being so combined, confederated, and conspiring together in the prosecution of said unlawful and traitorous conspiracy, on the night of the 14th day of April,  , at the hour of about 10 o'clock and 15 minutes p.m., at  's  , on Tenth street, in the city of  , and within the military department and military lines aforesaid,  , one of the conspirators aforesaid, in pursuance of said unlawful and traitorous conspiracy, did then and there unlawfully, maliciously, and traitorously, and with intent to kill and murder the said  , discharge a pistol then held in the hands of him, the said  , the same being then loaded with powder and a leaden ball, against and upon the left and posterior side of the head of the said  , and did thereby then and there inflict upon him, the said  , then President of the said   and Commander in Chief of the   and   thereof, a mortal wound, whereof afterwards, to wit, on  ,  , at   aforesaid, the said   died; and thereby then and there, and in pursuance of said conspiracy, the said defendants and the said   and   did unlawfully, traitorously, and maliciously, and with the intent to aid the rebellion as aforesaid, kill and murder the said  , President of   as aforesaid.

And in further prosecution of the unlawful and traitorous conspiracy aforesaid and of the murderous and traitorous intent of said conspiracy, the said  , on said   April,  , at about the same hour of that day as aforesaid, within said military department and the military lines aforesaid, did aid and assist the said   to obtain entrance to the box in said theater in which said   was sitting at the time he was assaulted and shot, as aforesaid, by  ; and also did then and there aid said   in barring and obstructing the door of the box of said theater, so as to hinder and prevent any assistance to or rescue of the said   against the murderous assault of the said  , and did aid and abet him in making his escape after the said   had been murdered in manner aforesaid.

And in further prosecution of said unlawful, murderous, and traitorous conspiracy, and in pursuance thereof, and with the intent as aforesaid, the said   did, on the night of the 14th of April,  , within the military department and military lines aforesaid, aid, abet, and assist the said   in the killing and murder of the said  , and did then and there aid and abet and assist him, the said  , in attempting to escape through the military lines aforesaid, and did accompany and assist the said   in attempting to conceal himself and escape from justice after killing and murdering said  , as aforesaid.

And in further prosecution of said unlawful and traitorous conspiracy and of the intent thereof as aforesaid, the said   did, on the same night of the 14th day of April,  , about the same hour of 10 o'clock and 15 minutes p.m., at the city of  , and within the military department and the military lines aforesaid, unlawfully and maliciously make an assault upon the said  , Secretary of  , as aforesaid, in the dwelling house and bedchamber of him, the said  , and the said   did then and there, with a large knife held in his hand, unlawfully, traitorously, and in pursuance of said conspiracy, strike, stab, cut, and attempt to kill and murder the said  , and did thereby then and there, and with the intent aforesaid, with said knife, inflict upon the face and throat of the said   divers grievous wounds; and the said  , in further prosecution of said conspiracy, at the same time and place last aforesaid, did attempt, with the knife aforesaid and pistol held in his hand, to kill and murder  ,  ,  , and  , who were then striving to protect and rescue the said   from murder by the said  , and did then and there, with said knife and pistol held in his hands, inflict upon the head of said   and upon the persons of said  ,  , and   divers grievous and dangerous wounds, with intent then and there to kill and murder the said  ,  ,  , and  .

And in further prosecution of said conspiracy and its traitorous and murderous designs, the said   did, on the night of the 14th of April, A. D.  , and about the same hour of the night aforesaid, within the military department and the military, lines aforesaid, lie in wait for  , then Vice-President of   aforesaid, with the intent unlawfully and maliciously to kill and murder him, the said  .

And in the further prosecution of the conspiracy aforesaid and of its murderous and treasonable purposes aforesaid, on  , at  , and within the military department and military lines aforesaid, the said   did then and there lie in wait for  , then   and commander of the armies of   as aforesaid, with intent then and there to kill and murder the said  .

And in further prosecution of said conspiracy, the said   did, within the military department and military lines aforesaid, on or before  , A. D.  , and on divers other days and times between   and  , A. D.  , combine, conspire with, and aid, counsel, abet, comfort, and support the said  ,  ,  ,  , and their confederates in said unlawful, murderous, and traitorous conspiracy and in the execution thereof, as aforesaid.

And in further prosecution of the said conspiracy,   did, at  , and within the military department and military lines aforesaid, on or before  , A. D.  , and on divers other days and times between   and  , receive, entertain, harbor and conceal, aid and assist, the said  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and their confederates, with knowledge of the murderous and traitorous conspiracy aforesaid, and with intent to aid, abet, and assist them in the execution thereof and in escaping from justice after the murder of the said  , as aforesaid.

And in further prosecution of said conspiracy, the said   did, at  , and within the military department and military lines aforesaid, on or before  , A. D.  , and on divers other days and times between   and  , advise, encourage, receive, entertain, harbor and conceal, aid and assist, the said  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , and their confederates, with knowledge of the murderous and traitorous conspiracy aforesaid, and with intent to aid, abet, and assist them in the execution thereof and in escaping from justice after the murder of the said  , in pursuance of said conspiracy, in manner aforesaid.

To which charge and specification the accused,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  , pleaded "not guilty."

FINDINGS AND SENTENCES.

I. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; as to which part thereof, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except the words of the charge that he combined, confederated, and conspired with  ; as to which part of said charge, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be hanged by the neck until he be dead, at such time and place as the President of   shall direct; two-thirds of the members of the commission concurring therein."

2. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be hung by the neck until he be dead, at such time and place as the President of   shall direct; two-thirds of the members of the commission concurring therein."

3. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be hung by the neck until he be dead, at such time and place as the President of   shall direct; two-thirds of the members or the commission concurring therein."

4. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except as to receiving, entertaining, harboring, and concealing   and  , and except as to combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except as to combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence her, the said  , "To be hung by the neck until she be dead, at such time and place as the President of   shall direct; two-thirds of the members of the commission concurring therein."

5. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except the words thereof as follows: And in the further prosecution of the conspiracy aforesaid and of its murderous and treasonable purposes aforesaid, on  , at  , and within the military department and military lines aforesaid, the said   did then and there lie in wait for  , then   and commander of the armies of  , with intent then and there to kill and murder the said  ; of said words, not guilty; and except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  . "To be imprisoned at hard labor for life at such penitentiary as the President of   shall designate."

6. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, "Not guilty, except as to the words, 'The said  , on said   April, A. D.  , at about the same hour of that day as aforesaid, within said military department and the military lines aforesaid, did aid and abet him (meaning   ) in making his escape after the said   had been murdered in manner aforesaid;' and of these words, guilty."

Of the charge, "Not guilty, but guilty of having feloniously and traitorously aided and abetted   in making his escape after having killed and murdered  , President of  , he the said  , at the time of aiding and abetting as aforesaid, well knowing that the said  , President as aforesaid, had been murdered by the said  , as aforesaid."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be confined at hard labor for     at such penitentiary as the president of   shall designate."

7. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be imprisoned at hard labor for life at such penitentiary as the President of   shall designate."

8. In the case of  , the commission, having maturely considered the evidence adduced, finds the accused as follows:

Of the specification, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty; and except receiving, entertaining, harboring, and concealing  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  ; of this, not guilty."

Of the charge, " , except combining, confederating, and conspiring with  ; of this, not guilty."

And the commission does therefore sentence him, the said  , "To be imprisoned at hard labor for life at such penitentiary as the President of   shall designate."

II. The proceedings, findings, and sentences in the foregoing cases having been submitted to the President of  , the following are his orders:
