Section 1

. (a) With respect to any foreign person identified by the Secretary of  , in consultation with the Secretary of the  , in a report to the   pursuant to section 7503(a)(1)(B) of  , all property and interests in property of such person that are in  , that hereafter come within  , or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any   person are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) Sanctions under subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to any foreign person with respect to whom a waiver under section 7503(f) of   has been issued.

(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

 . 2

. The Secretary of   shall implement section 7503(b) of   as it applies to visas, and the Secretary of   shall implement section 7503(b) of   as it applies to admission and parole. Such implementation shall be consistent with any exceptions or waivers provided by statute, or in regulations, orders, or directives that may be issued pursuant to this order.

 . 3

. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.

 . 4

. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 5

. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of   (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

 . 6

. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b) the term "foreign person" means an individual or entity that is not a   person;

(c) the term "person" means an individual or entity; and

(d) the term "  person" means any   citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  .

 . 7

. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in  , I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

 . 8

. The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and  , as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within  . All departments and agencies of   shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 9

. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of   or  , including its programs, funds, and other entities and bodies, as well as its specialized agencies and related organizations, by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.

 . 10

. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
