Section 1

.

Policy

. It is the policy of my Administration to improve the capacity of the  's healthcare systems to address coronavirus disease   (COVID-19), to accelerate the development of novel therapies to treat  , and to improve all  ' access to quality and affordable healthcare.

 . 2

.

Accelerating  . To enhance the  's ability to quickly develop the most promising   interventions, the Secretary of   ( ), in consultation with the Director of  , shall:

(a) develop a plan for supporting a range of studies, including large-scale randomized trials, for identifying optimal clinical management strategies, and for supporting the most promising treatments for   and future high-consequence public health threats, that can be easily manufactured, distributed, and administered, both domestically and internationally;

(b) develop a plan, in consultation with non-governmental partners, as appropriate, to support research:

(i) in rural hospitals and other rural locations; and

(ii) that studies the emerging evidence concerning the long-term impact of   on patient health; and

(c) consider steps to ensure that clinical trials include populations that have been historically underrepresented in such trials.

 . 3

.

Improving the Capacity of the Nation's   to Address COVID-19

. To bolster the capacity of the  's healthcare systems to support healthcare workers and patients:

(a) The Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), in coordination with   and   to the President ( ), shall promptly, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, provide targeted surge assistance to critical care and long-term care facilities, including nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, intermediate care facilities for individuals with disabilities, and residential treatment centers, in their efforts to combat the spread of  .

(b)  , in coordination with the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall review the needs of Federal facilities providing care to   patients and develop recommendations for further actions such facilities can take to support active military personnel, veterans, and Tribal nations during this crisis.

(c) The Secretary of   shall promptly: (i) issue recommendations on how   and healthcare providers can increase the capacity of their healthcare workforces to address the   pandemic; and

(ii) through   and the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and  , take appropriate actions, as consistent with applicable law, to expand access to programs and services designed to meet the long-term health needs of patients recovering from  , including through technical assistance and support to community health centers.

 . 4

.

  and  

. (a) To facilitate the equitable and effective distribution of therapeutics and bolster clinical care capacity where needed to support patient care, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of  , in coordination with  , shall establish targets for the production, allocation, and distribution of   treatments. To meet those targets, the Secretary of  , the Secretary of  , and the Secretary of   shall consider prioritizing, including through grants for research and development, investments in therapeutics that can be readily administered and scaled.

(b) To facilitate the utilization of existing   treatments, the Secretary of   shall identify barriers to maximizing the effective and equitable use of existing   treatments and shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, provide support to  , local,  , and territorial authorities aimed at overcoming those barriers.

(c) To address the affordability of treatments and clinical care, the Secretary of   shall, promptly and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i) evaluate  , operated by   within  , and take any available steps to promote access to treatments and clinical care for those without adequate coverage, to support safety-net providers in delivering such treatments and clinical care, and to make the   easy to use and accessible for patients and providers, with information about the   widely disseminated; and

(ii) evaluate  ,  , group health plans, and health insurance issuers, and take any available steps to promote insurance coverage for safe and effective   treatments and clinical care.

 . 5

.

General Provisions.

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
