Section 1

.

 

. The Act is the single largest and most ambitious investment in the ability of   to advance clean energy, cut consumer energy costs, confront the climate crisis, promote environmental justice, and strengthen energy security, among other vital provisions that will lower costs for families, reduce the deficit, and grow and strengthen the economy. The Act will:

(a) build on the once-in-a-generation investment in the infrastructure and competitiveness of   set forth in   (Public Law 117-58) by accelerating the deployment of clean energy technologies, making home energy efficiency and clean energy installations more affordable, and incentivizing the purchase of electric vehicles;

(b) boost energy security and lower energy costs for families, businesses, and government;

(c) revitalize   manufacturing by investing in domestic clean energy supply chains and creating well-paying union jobs, including in traditional energy communities;

(d) improve public health and advance environmental justice and economic opportunity for frontline communities who disproportionately bear the brunt of cumulative exposure to industrial and energy pollution;

(e) promote climate justice by reducing harmful greenhouse gas emissions in line with the goal of realizing net-zero emissions by no later than 2050;

(f) harness nature-based solutions—including climate-smart agriculture and forestry—that deliver economic benefits for rural communities,  , farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners;

(g) expand research and accelerate innovation in the development of clean energy, climate, and related technologies; and

(h) increase the resilience of our communities in the face of a changing climate.

Achieving these goals will require effective implementation of the Act by my Administration, as well as by  , local,  , and territorial governments.

 . 2

.

Implementation Priorities

. In implementing the Act, all agencies (as described in section 3502(1) of title  , United States Code, except for the agencies described in  ) of title  ) shall, as appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, prioritize:

(a) investing public dollars effectively and efficiently, working to avoid waste, and achieving measurable, demonstrable outcomes for the   people;

(b) driving progress to achieve the climate goals of   to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 50-52 percent below   levels in  , achieve a carbon pollution-free electricity sector by  , and achieve net-zero emissions by no later than 2050;

(c) advancing environmental and climate justice through an all-of-government approach, including through the Justice40 Initiative set forth in Executive Order   (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad), to protect and improve the health and well-being of fence-line and frontline communities in  ;

(d) promoting construction of clean energy generation, storage, and transmission, and enabling technologies through efficient, effective mechanisms that incorporate community engagement;

(e) increasing the competitiveness of   economy and investment in critical supply chains, including through the Act's incentives and measures to strengthen domestic manufacturing and supply chains;

(f) increasing high-quality job opportunities for   workers and improving equitable access to these jobs, including in traditional energy communities, through the timely implementation of the  's requirements for prevailing wages and registered apprenticeships and by focusing on high labor standards and the free and fair chance to join a union;

(g) reducing energy costs for working families, businesses, and governments at all levels while increasing energy security for the benefit of   economic competitiveness and national security;

(h) accelerating innovation by directing the scientific and technical expertise of  's researchers, businesses, and workers toward achieving breakthroughs in clean energy and climate technologies; and

(i) effectively coordinating with  , local,  , and territorial governments, as well as with private-sector stakeholders and nongovernmental organizations, in implementing the critical investments outlined in this section to build sustainable, resilient communities.

 . 3

.

 . There is hereby established   within   of the President, which shall coordinate the policymaking process with respect to implementing the energy and infrastructure provisions of the Act and other essential initiatives.   shall have a staff headed by  ; shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order, subject to the availability of appropriations; and may work with established or ad hoc committees and interagency groups.

 . 4

.

Interagency Coordination
