Section 1.

Establishment.

There is established   ("Council"). The   shall assist in carrying out the purposes of the Act, provide scientific and technical advice on the development and implementation of the coordinated program and comprehensive plan required by section 103 of the Act, and serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of   and the Secretary of   ("Secretaries") with respect to their responsibilities and functions under the Act.

 . 2.

Membership.

(A)

Composition.

The   shall consist of nine voting members. Five of the members shall be appointed by the President upon the recommendation of the Secretaries. Four of the members shall be appointed by the  , of whom one shall be appointed by the Speaker of  , one shall be appointed by the minority leader of  , one shall be appointed by the President pro tempore of the  , and one shall be appointed by the minority leader of the  . The   shall also include the joint chairpersons of   as ex officio nonvoting members.

(B)

Selection Criteria.

Each person appointed to the   shall be selected solely on the basis of an established record of distinguished service and shall be eminent in one of the following fields:

(1) public health, including clinical dietetics, public health nutrition, epidemiology, clinical medicine, health education, or nutrition education;

(2) nutrition monitoring research, including nutrition monitoring and surveillance, food consumption patterns, nutritional anthropoligy, community nutrition research, nutritional biochemistry, food composition analysis, survey statistics, dietary-intake methodology, or nutrition status methodology; or

(3) food production and distribution, including agriculture, biotechnology, food engineering, economics, consumer psychology or sociology, food-system management, or food assistance.

(C)

Particular Representation Requirements.

The   membership, at all times, shall include at least two representatives from each of the three areas of specialization listed in subsection (B), and shall have representatives from various geographic areas, the private sector, academia, scientific and professional societies, agriculture, minority organizations, and public interest organizations, and shall include a   or local government employee with a specialized interest in nutrition monitoring.

(D)

Chairperson.

The Chairperson of the Council shall be elected from and by the   membership. The term of office shall not exceed  . If a vacancy occurs in the Chairpersonship, the   shall elect a member to fill such vacancy.

(E)

Term of Office.

The term of office of each of the voting members of the   shall be  , except that of the five members first appointed by the President, two members shall be appointed for a term of  , two members for a term of  , and one for a term of  , as designated by the President at the time of appointment. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of the term. No voting member shall be eligible to serve continuously for more than two consecutive terms.

(F)

Executive Secretary.

  (if appointed under section 101(d) of the Act) shall serve as the Executive Secretary of the  .

 . 3.

Functions of the  .

The   shall:

(a) provide scientific and technical advice on the development and implementation of all components of the coordinated program and the comprehensive plan;

(b) evaluate the scientific and technical quality of the comprehensive plan and the effectiveness of the coordinated program;

(c) recommend to the  , on an   basis, means of enhancing the comprehensive plan and the coordinated programs; and

(d) submit to the     reports that shall: (1) contain the components specified in paragraphs (b) and (c); and (2) be included in full in the biennial reports of the   to the President for transmittal to the   under section 102(b) of the Act.

 . 4.

Meetings.

The   shall meet on a regular basis at the call of the Chairperson, or on the written request of one-third of the members. A majority of the appointed members of the   shall constitute a quorum.

 . 5.

Administration.

(a) The heads of executive departments, agencies, and independent instrumentalities shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the  , upon request, with such information as it may require for the purposes of carrying out its functions.

(b) Members of the   shall serve without compensation for their work on the  . While engaged in the work of the  , members appointed from among private citizens of   may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707). Appointed members of the   may not be employed by  .

(c) To the extent provided by law and subject to the availability of appropriations,   shall provide the   with such administrative services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.

 . 6.

General provision.

Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under   that are applicable to the   shall be performed by the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by  .

 . 7. The   shall terminate   after the final comprehensive plan is prepared under section 103 of the Act.
