119 HJ 77 IH: Establishing that it shall be the policy of the Government of the United States to recognize the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of Ukraine within that nation’s internationally recognized borders as established in 1991.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-03-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 77
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 18, 2025
Mr. Fitzpatrick
(for himself,
Mr. Connolly
,
Mr. Turner of Ohio
,
Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Lawler
,
Ms. Houlahan
,
Mr. Bacon
,
Mr. Hoyer
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
, and
Ms. Kaptur
) submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
JOINT RESOLUTION
Establishing that it shall be the policy of the Government of the United States to recognize the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of Ukraine within that nation’s internationally recognized borders as established in 1991.
Whereas the United States reaffirms its unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders as established in 1991;
Whereas Russia has illegally and forcibly occupied and annexed Crimea, Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, and Kherson;
Whereas, since 2014, Russia has flagrantly violated the United Nations Charter and international law through its war of aggression and illegal occupation;
Whereas the United States upholds the principle of ex injuria jus non oritur—illegal acts create no legal rights—and that no unlawful act can become legal through force, coercion, or passage of time;
Whereas Ukraine’s borders and lands remain Ukrainian regardless of any act of war, coercion, or political manipulation; and
Whereas, as with the Welles Declaration of 1940, the United States categorically rejects Russia’s territorial claims made through aggression and sham referenda: Now, therefore, be it
That it shall be the exclusive policy of the Government of the United States to not recognize, nor commit any action that implies recognition of, claims made by the Russia Federation over the sovereign Ukrainian territories it occupies, including but not limited to Crimea, Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, and Kherson.
