119 HJ 95 IH: Recognizing the critical importance of the United States Special Operations Forces community and expressing support for the designation of SOF Week.
U.S. House of Representatives
2025-05-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IA
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. J. RES. 95
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 6, 2025
Mr. Jackson of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Hudson
,
Mr. Peters
,
Ms. Castor of Florida
, and
Mr. Crow
) submitted the following joint resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
JOINT RESOLUTION
Recognizing the critical importance of the United States Special Operations Forces community and expressing support for the designation of SOF Week.
Whereas Special Operations Forces (hereinafter referred to as
SOF
) encompass highly trained, specialized military units within the Department of Defense, including the Army Special Forces, Psychological Operations Units, Civil Affairs Soldiers, 75th Ranger Regiment, the 160th Aviation regiment (Night Stalkers), Navy SEALs, Special Warfare Combatant-Craft Crewman, Air Force Special Operations Aviators, Special Tactics Teams, Marine Special Operations (Raiders), and other affiliated units, which embody the highest standards of courage, resilience, and professionalism;
Whereas the SOF community plays a vital role in defending the United States national security interests and is responsible for conducting missions that require unique skills, tactics, and equipment, including campaigning, unconventional warfare, counterterrorism, hostage rescue, and direct action;
Whereas SOF personnel operate under the most challenging and dangerous conditions and conduct military operations in some of the harshest and most volatile environments throughout the world;
Whereas SOF receive specialized training in advanced weapons, language, demolitions, combat medicine, military free-fall, and advanced combat tactics to ensure discrete, precise, and scalable operations;
Whereas the United States must continue to invest in the equipment, training, health, well-being, and transition of SOF members to maintain readiness and honor their valiant service;
Whereas the families of SOF members carry a unique burden, providing steadfast support amid frequent deployments, high operational tempo, and inherent risks; and
Whereas SOF Week, an annual conference for the international SOF community, will convene May 5 through May 8, 2025: Now, therefore be it
That Congress—
(1)
recognizes the critical importance of the United States Special Operations Forces community to the defense and security of the United States;
(2)
commits to honoring the skill, dedication, bravery, and selfless service of SOF personnel and their families; and
(3)
supports the designation of
SOF Week
in appreciation of the courage, commitment, and contributions of the SOF community.
