1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
No Homeland Security, No Pay Act
.
2.
Withholding Member pay in event of shutdown of Department of Homeland Security
(a)
Holding Salaries in Escrow
If on any day during the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security is in effect, the payroll administrator of that House of Congress shall—
(1)
withhold from the payments otherwise required to be made with respect to a pay period for the compensation of each Member of Congress who serves in that House of Congress an amount equal to the product of—
(A)
an amount equal to one day’s worth of pay under the annual rate of pay applicable to the Member under section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 4501
), and
(B)
the number of 24-hour periods during which the shutdown is in effect which occur during the pay period; and
(2)
deposit in an escrow account all amounts withheld under paragraph (1).
(b)
Release of amounts at end of the congress
In order to ensure that this section is carried out in a manner that shall not vary the compensation of Senators or Representatives in violation of the twenty-seventh article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the payroll administrator of a House of Congress shall release for payments to Members of that House of Congress any amounts remaining in any escrow account under this section on the last day of the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress.
(c)
Role of secretary of the treasury
The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide the payroll administrators of the Houses of Congress with such assistance as may be necessary to enable the payroll administrators to carry out this section.
(d)
Payroll administrator defined
In this section, the
payroll administrator
of a House of Congress means—
(1)
in the case of the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or an employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer who is designated by the Chief Administrative Officer to carry out this section; and
(2)
in the case of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate, or an employee of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate who is designated by the Secretary to carry out this section.
3.
Determination of shutdown
For purposes of this Act, a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security shall be considered to be in effect if there is a lapse in appropriations for the Department as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution.
4.
Member of Congress defined
In this Act, the term
Member of Congress
means an individual serving in a position under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (
2 U.S.C. 4501
).
