1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Mobility, Opportunity, and Vocation Enabling Act
or the
MOVE Act
.
2.
Establishment of performance measures for transportation accessibility
(a)
Connectivity and accessibility performance measures
Section 150 of title 23, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c) by adding at the end the following:
(7)
Multimodal transportation connectivity and accessibility
(A)
In general
Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of the
Mobility, Opportunity, and Vocation Enabling Act
, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as are necessary to establish performance measures relating to transportation connectivity and accessibility for States and metropolitan planning organizations to use to assess the connectivity and accessibility of roadways, public transit infrastructure, pedestrian and bikeway infrastructure, and other transportation infrastructure.
(B)
Content
The performance measures required under subparagraph (A) shall include measures to assess—
(i)
with respect to the general population serviced by a transportation system—
(I)
the change in cumulative access to employment opportunities;
(II)
multimodal choice and enhanced interconnections among modes to—
(aa)
offer variety of choice between and among modes;
(bb)
provide accessible and reliable transportation for all users; and
(cc)
encourage travel demand management; and
(III)
such other areas the Secretary considers appropriate; and
(ii)
with respect to disadvantaged populations serviced by a transportation system—
(I)
transportation accessibility for disadvantaged populations;
(II)
change in cumulative job accessibility for disadvantaged populations; and
(III)
such other areas the Secretary considers appropriate.
(C)
Disadvantaged population defined
In this paragraph, the term
disadvantaged population
means a low-income or minority population, or people with disabilities, as determined by the Secretary.
; and
(2)
in subsection (d) by striking
and (6)
and inserting
(6), and (7)
.
(b)
Title 23 metropolitan planning coordination
Section 134(h)(2)(B) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(iii)
Multimodal transportation accessibility performance targets
Selection of performance targets by a metropolitan planning organization shall be coordinated, to the maximum extent practicable, with the relevant State and providers of public transportation to ensure consistency with section 150(c)(7).
.
(c)
Title 49 metropolitan planning coordination
Section 5303(h)(2)(B) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
(iii)
Multimodal transportation accessibility performance targets
Selection of performance targets by a metropolitan planning organization shall be coordinated, to the maximum extent practicable, with the relevant State and providers of public transportation to ensure consistency with section 150(c)(7) of title 23.
.
