1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Medicaid Generic Drug Price Fairness Act of 2015
.
2.
Applying the medicaid additional rebate requirement to generic drugs
(a)
In general
Section 1927(c)(3) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(c)(3)
) is amended—
(1)
in subparagraph (A), by striking
The amount
and inserting
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the amount
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
(C)
Additional rebate
(i)
In general
The amount of the rebate specified in this paragraph for a rebate period, with respect to each dosage form and strength of a covered outpatient drug other than a single source drug or an innovator multiple source drug, shall be increased in the manner that the rebate for a dosage form and strength of a single source drug or an innovator multiple source drug is increased under subparagraphs (A) and (D) of paragraph (2), except as provided in clause (ii).
(ii)
Special rules for application of provision
In applying subparagraphs (A) and (D) of paragraph (2) under clause (i)—
(I)
the reference in subparagraph (A)(i) of such paragraph to
1990
shall be deemed a reference to
2014
;
(II)
subject to clause (iii), the reference in subparagraph (A)(ii) of such paragraph to
calendar quarter beginning July 1, 1990
shall be deemed a reference to the
calendar quarter in which the average manufacturer price for the drug is the lowest during the 12-calendar quarter period ending on September 30, 2014
;
(III)
subject to clause (iii), the reference in subparagraph (A)(ii) of such paragraph to
September 1990
shall be deemed a reference to
the last month of such calendar quarter
;
(IV)
the references in subparagraph (D) of such paragraph to
paragraph (1)(A)(ii)
,
this paragraph
, and
December 31, 2009
shall be deemed references to
subparagraph (A)
,
this subparagraph
, and
December 31, 2014
, respectively; and
(V)
any reference in such paragraph to a
single source drug or an innovator multiple source drug
shall be deemed to be a reference to a drug to which clause (i) applies.
(iii)
Special rule for certain noninnovator multiple source drugs
In applying paragraph (2)(A)(ii)(II) under clause (i) with respect to a covered outpatient drug that is first sold as a drug other than a single source drug or an innovator multiple source drug after the date that is 3 years before the date of the enactment of this subparagraph, such paragraph shall be applied—
(I)
by substituting
the applicable quarter
for
the calendar quarter beginning July 1, 1990
; and
(II)
by substituting
the last month in such applicable quarter
for
September 1990
.
(iv)
Applicable quarter defined
In this subsection, the term
applicable quarter
means, with respect to a drug described in clause (iii), the fifth full calendar quarter in which the drug is sold as a drug other than a single source drug or an innovator multiple source drug.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to rebate periods beginning after December 31, 2014.
