1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Secure our Skies Act of 2016
.
2.
Training to combat human trafficking for certain employees of air carriers
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
41725.
Training to combat human trafficking
(a)
In general
Each air carrier providing passenger air transportation shall provide flight attendants, pilots, and dispatchers who are employees or contractors of the air carrier with training to combat human trafficking in the course of carrying out their duties as employees or contractors of the air carrier.
(b)
Elements of training
The training an air carrier is required to provide under subsection (a) to flight attendants, pilots, and dispatchers shall include training with respect to—
(1)
common indicators of human trafficking; and
(2)
best practices for reporting suspected trafficking to law enforcement officers.
(c)
Training module
To assist in training flight attendants, pilots, and dispatchers to identify and report human trafficking, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Transportation shall provide information to air carriers, including the Blue Campaign training module, and permit air carriers to use such information, in whole or in part, in complying with subsection (a).
(d)
Human trafficking defined
In this section, the term
human trafficking
means 1 or more severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102
)).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The analysis for
chapter 417
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
section 41724
the following:
41725. Training to combat human trafficking
.
(c)
Report required
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
(1)
the status of air carrier compliance with section 41725(a) and the dissemination and use of information described in subsection (c) of that section; and
(2)
recommendations for improving the identification and reporting of human trafficking by air carrier personnel while protecting the civil liberties of passengers.
3.
Immunity for reporting human trafficking
Section 44941 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking
or terrorism, as defined by section 3077 of title 18, United States Code,
and inserting
human trafficking (as defined by section 41725), or terrorism (as defined by section 3077 of title 18, United States Code)
.
