1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Small Business Development Centers Improvement Act of 2015
.
2.
Use of authorized entrepreneurial development programs
The Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
48.
Use of authorized entrepreneurial development programs
(a)
Expanded support for entrepreneurs
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator shall only use the programs
authorized in sections 7(j), 7(m), 8(a), 8(b)(1), 21, 22, 29, and 32 of
this Act, and sections 358 and 389 of the Small Business Investment Act to
deliver entrepreneurial development services, entrepreneurial education,
business incubation services, growth acceleration services, support for
the development and maintenance of clusters, or business training.
(2)
Exception
This section shall not apply to services provided to assist small business concerns owned by an
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in section 8(a)(13)).
(b)
Annual report
Beginning on the first December 1 after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator
shall annually report to the Committee on Small Business of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship
of the Senate on all entrepreneurial development activities undertaken in
the current fiscal year. This report shall include—
(1)
a description and operating details for each program and activity;
(2)
operating circulars, manuals, and standard operating procedures for each program and activity;
(3)
a description of the process used to award grants under each program and activity;
(4)
a list of all awardees, contractors, and vendors (including organization name and location) and the
amount of awards for the current fiscal year for each program and
activity;
(5)
the amount of funding obligated for the current fiscal year for each program and activity; and
(6)
the names and titles for those individuals responsible for each program and activity.
.
3.
Marketing of services
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(o)
No prohibition of marketing of services
The Administrator shall not prohibit applicants receiving grants under this section from marketing
and advertising their services to individuals and small businesses.
.
4.
Data collection
(a)
In general
Section 21(a)(3)(A) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A)
) is amended—
(1)
by striking
as provided in this section and
and inserting
as provided in this section,
; and
(2)
by inserting before the period at the end the following:
, and (iv) governing data collection activities related to applicants receiving grants under this
section
.
(b)
Annual report on data collection
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648
), as amended by section 3 of this Act, is
further amended by adding at the end the following:
(p)
Annual Report on data collection
The Administrator shall report annually to the Committee on Small Business of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship
of the Senate on any data collection activities related to the Small
Business Development Center program.
.
5.
Fees from private partnerships and cosponsorships
Section 21(a)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(C)
) is amended to read as
follows:
(C)
Participation in private partnerships and cosponsorships with the Administration shall not limit
small business development centers from collecting fees or other income
related to the operation of such private partnerships and cosponsorships.
.
6.
Equity for small business development centers
Section 21(a)(4)(C)(v)(I) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648(a)(4)(C)(v)
) is amended—
(1)
in item (aa), by striking
; and
and inserting a period; and
(2)
by striking item (bb).
7.
Confidentiality requirements
Section 21(a)(7)(A) of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648(a)(7)(A)
) is amended by inserting
after
under this section
the following:
to any State, local or Federal agency, or third party
.
8.
Limitation on award of grants to small business development centers
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (
15 U.S.C. 648
), as amended by sections 3 and 4 of this Act,
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
(q)
Limitation on award of grants
Except for not-for-profit institutions of higher education, and notwithstanding any provision of
law, the Administrator may not award grants (including contracts and
cooperative agreements) under this section to any entity other than those
that received grants (including contracts and cooperative agreements)
under this section prior to September 30, 2015, and that seek to renew
such grants (including contracts and cooperative agreements) after such
date.
.
