1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Subsidy Reserve Act of 2015
.
2.
Subsidy reserve
Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (
12 U.S.C. 5365
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(l)
Subsidy Reserve
(1)
In general
Each nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors and each bank holding company with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $500,000,000,000 shall establish and maintain a capital account called the
Subsidy Reserve
.
(2)
Computation of benefit
The Board of Governors shall, in consultation with the Council and the Office of Financial Research, and after notice and opportunity for a hearing, establish a formula for determining the financial benefit received by a company described under paragraph (1) as a result of the expectations on the part of shareholders, creditors, and counterparties of such company that the Government will shield such shareholders, creditors, and counterparties from losses in the event of the failure of such company.
(3)
Subsidy Reserve amount
The Board of Governors shall require each company described under paragraph (1) to annually apply the formula established under paragraph (2) to its annual financial statement and maintain the resulting amount in the company’s Subsidy Reserve, in addition to any amounts so maintained from previous years.
(4)
Use of Subsidy Reserve amounts
The amount of funds in the Subsidy Reserve may only be decreased if a company makes a sale of assets, spins off a subsidiary, or makes a similar divestiture, in which case the Subsidy Reserve may only be decreased in an amount, as determined by the Board of Governors, that reflects the amount of such sale, spin off, or similar divestiture, either on a pro rata basis or according to the risk weighting of the property sold, spun off, or divested.
(5)
Treatment of Subsidy Reserve amounts
Amounts in the Subsidy Reserve may be taken into account when determining the capital of a company for purposes of meeting any regulatory capital requirements.
(6)
Rulemaking
The Board of Governors may issue such regulations and orders as it considers necessary to carry out this subsection.
.
