1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Innovation, Research, and Manufacturing Act
.
2.
Research credit increased and made permanent
(a)
Credit amount increased by 50 percent
Paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of
section 41(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by striking
20 percent
and inserting
30 percent
.
(b)
Credit made permanent
(1)
In general
Section 41 of such Code is amended by striking subsection (h).
(2)
Conforming amendments
(A)
Subsection (c) of section 41 of such Code is amended by striking paragraph (4).
(B)
Paragraph (1) of section 45C(b) of such Code is amended by striking subparagraph (D).
(c)
Credit allowed against payroll taxes for small employers
Section 41 of such Code, as amended by subsection (b), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(h)
Credit allowed against payroll taxes for small employers
(1)
In general
In the case of an eligible small employer, so much of the credit determined under subsection (a) for the taxable year (determined without regard to this subsection) as does not exceed the payroll taxes paid by such employer for periods during such taxable year shall be treated for purposes of this title as a credit allowed under subpart C.
(2)
Coordination with research credit
The amount determined under subsection (a) for any taxable year shall be reduced by the amount treated under paragraph (1) as a credit allowed under subpart C.
(3)
Eligible small employer
For purposes of this subsection, the term
eligible small employer
means a small business concern within the meaning of section 3 of the Small Business Act.
(4)
Payroll taxes
For purposes of this subsection, the term
payroll taxes
means—
(A)
any tax imposed under section 3111 or 3221(a),
(B)
so much of any tax imposed under section 3211(a) as relates to the rates of tax under subsections (a) and (b) of section 3111, and
(C)
50 percent of any tax imposed under section 1401.
.
(d)
Effective dates
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
(2)
Extension of credit
The amendments made by subsection (b) shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after December 31, 2014.
