1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Shark Fin Trade E­lim­i­na­tion Act of 2016
.
2.
Prohibition on trade in shark fins
(a)
Prohibition
Except as provided in section 3, no person shall possess, trade, distribute, ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, import, or export shark fins or products containing shark fins.
(b)
Penalty
For purposes of section 308(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1858(a)
), a violation of this section shall be treated as an act prohibited by section 307 of that Act (
16 U.S.C. 1857
).
3.
Exemption for traditional fisheries, education, and science
A person may possess a shark fin that was taken lawfully under a State, territorial, or Federal license or permit to take or land sharks, if the shark fin is separated from the shark in a manner consistent with the license or permit and is—
(1)
destroyed or discarded;
(2)
retained by the license or permit holder for a noncommercial purpose;
(3)
used for noncommercial subsistence purposes in accordance with State or territorial law; or
(4)
used solely for display or research purposes by a museum, college, or university, or other person under a State or Federal permit to conduct noncommercial scientific research.
4.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Shark
The term
shark
—
(A)
except as provided in subparagraph (B), means any species of the subclass E­las­mo­bran­chi­i; and
(B)
does not include—
(i)
any stock of the species Mustelus canis (smooth dogfish) or Squalus a­can­thi­as (spiny dogfish) that is managed pursuant to a fishery management plan prepared under section 303 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1853
); or
(ii)
any species in the superorder Batoidea that is managed pursuant to a fishery management plan prepared under section 303 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1853
).
(2)
Shark fin
The term
shark fin
means the raw, dried, or otherwise processed detached fin, or the raw, dried, or otherwise processed detached tail, of a shark.
(3)
Import
The term
import
has the same meaning that term has under section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (
16 U.S.C. 1802
).
5.
State authority
Nothing in this Act precludes, denies, or limits any right of a State or territory of the United States to adopt or enforce any regulation or standard that is more stringent than a regulation or standard in effect under this Act.
