1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2015
.
2.
Reauthorization of residential treatment programs for pregnant and postpartum women
Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–1
) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (p), by inserting
(other than subsection (r))
after
section
; and
(2)
in subsection (r), by striking
such sums
and all that follows through
2003
and inserting
$40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020
.
3.
Pilot program grants for State substance abuse agencies
(a)
In general
Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–1
) is amended—
(1)
by redesignating subsection (r), as amended by section 2, as subsection (s); and
(2)
by inserting after subsection (q) the following new subsection:
(r)
Pilot program for State substance abuse agencies
(1)
In general
From amounts made available under subsection (s), the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment shall carry out a pilot program under which competitive grants are made by the Director to State substance abuse agencies to—
(A)
enhance flexibility in the use of funds designed to support family-based services for pregnant and postpartum women with a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, including opioid use disorders;
(B)
help State substance abuse agencies address identified gaps in services furnished to such women along the continuum of care, including services provided to women in non-residential based settings; and
(C)
promote a coordinated, effective, and efficient State system managed by State substance abuse agencies by encouraging new approaches and models of service delivery.
(2)
Requirements
In carrying out the pilot program under this subsection, the Director shall—
(A)
require State substance abuse agencies to submit to the Director applications, in such form and manner and containing such information as specified by the Director, to be eligible to receive a grant under the program;
(B)
identify, based on such submitted applications, State substance abuse agencies that are eligible for such grants;
(C)
require services proposed to be furnished through such a grant to support family based treatment and other services for pregnant and postpartum women with a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, including opioid use disorders;
(D)
not require that services furnished through such a grant be provided solely to women that reside in facilities;
(E)
not require that grant recipients under the program make available through use of the grant all services described in subsection (d); and
(F)
consider not applying requirements described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (f) to applicants, depending on the circumstances of the applicant.
(3)
Required services
(A)
In general
The Director shall specify a minimum set of services required to be made available to eligible women through a grant awarded under the pilot program under this subsection. Such minimum set—
(i)
shall include requirements described in subsection (c) and be based on the recommendations submitted under subparagraph (B); and
(ii)
may be selected from among the services described in subsection (d) and include other services as appropriate.
(B)
Stakeholder input
The Director shall convene and solicit recommendations from stakeholders, including State substance abuse agencies, health care providers, persons in recovery from substance abuse, and other appropriate individuals, for the minimum set of services described in subparagraph (A).
(4)
Duration
The pilot program under this subsection shall not exceed 5 years.
(5)
Evaluation and Report to Congress
The Director of the Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality shall fund an evaluation of the pilot program at the conclusion of the first grant cycle funded by the pilot program. The Director of the Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality, in coordination with the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment shall submit to the relevant Committees of jurisdiction of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on such evaluation. The report shall include at a minimum outcomes information from the pilot program, including any resulting reductions in the use of alcohol and other drugs; engagement in treatment services; retention in the appropriate level and duration of services; increased access to the use of medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of substance use disorders in combination with counseling; and other appropriate measures.
(6)
State substance abuse agencies defined
For purposes of this subsection, the term
State substance abuse agency
means, with respect to a State, the agency in such State that manages the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant under part B of title XIX.
.
(b)
Funding
Subsection (s) of section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 290bb–1
), as amended by section 2 and redesignated by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
Of the amounts made available for a year pursuant to the previous sentence to carry out this section, not more than 25 percent of such amounts shall be made available for such year to carry out subsection (r), other than paragraph (5) of such subsection.
.
