1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Safe Prescribing for Veterans Act
.
2.
Continuing education requirement for employees of Department of Veterans Affairs authorized to prescribe medication
(a)
In general
Subchapter I of
chapter 74
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
7413.
Continuing education requirement for employees authorized to prescribe medication
(a)
Requirement
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall require each covered employee of the Department to complete not less than one accredited course of continuing education on pain management once every two years. Such course shall include information on safe prescribing practices and disposal of controlled substances, principles of pain management, identification of potential substance use disorders and addiction treatment.
(2)
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a covered employee if the covered employee is licensed or certified by a State licensure or specialty board that requires the completion of continuing education relative to pain management or substance use disorder management.
(b)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered employee
means any employee of the Department authorized to prescribe any controlled substance, including an employee hired under section 7405 of this title.
(2)
The term
controlled substance
has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
).
(c)
Applicability
The requirement under subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a covered employee for any 24-month period during which the covered employee is employed by the Department for at least 180 days.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subchapter I of such chapter the following new item:
7413. Continuing education requirement for employees authorized to prescribe medication.
.
(c)
Applicability
Section 7413 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a 12-month period that begins on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
