1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Widening Internet Readiness for Employment Development Act
or the
WIRED Act
.
2.
Online provision of one-stop services
(a)
Online provision of one-Stop services
Subparagraph (D) of section 121(e)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3151(e)(2)(D)
) is amended to read as follows:
(D)
as applicable and practicable, shall make programs, services, and activities accessible to individuals through an Internet website that—
(i)
is unique to the particular one-stop delivery system; and
(ii)
meets the standards and incorporates the best practices established by the Secretary of Labor under subsection (j).
.
(b)
Standards and best practices for online provision of services by one-Stop delivery systems
Section 121 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (
29 U.S.C. 3951
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(j)
Standards and best practices for online provision of services
After soliciting public comments and consulting with and receiving input from relevant parties, including State workforce development boards, the Secretary of Labor shall establish and maintain standards and best practices for Internet websites maintained by one-stop delivery systems under subsection (e)(2)(D), and for the provision of services through such websites. Such standards and best practices shall include—
(1)
a requirement for user-friendly, up-to-date websites available to all dislocated workers;
(2)
a requirement that such websites prominently display the address and hours of operation of all physical one-stop centers in the local area, and a description of services provided in and events held at each such center;
(3)
best practices for providing, through such websites, services such as resume assistance, cover letter review, job searching, interview preparations, and online employment-related practice tests, through videos, video-conferencing, or other means;
(4)
best practices for assuring a secure network and the protection of any personal information;
(5)
best practices for incorporating social media and networking capabilities into such websites; and
(6)
best practices for making such websites accessible by mobile devices to the extent practicable.
.
(c)
Deadline
The Secretary shall establish the initial standards and best practices required by section 121(j) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (as added by subsection (b)) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
