1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Top 1% Accountability Act
.
2.
Disallowance of itemized deductions for failure to submit clean drug test
(a)
In general
Section 63
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following:
(h)
Disallowance of itemized deductions for failure To submit clean drug test
(1)
In general
An individual described in paragraph (2) for a taxable year may not elect to itemize deductions for the taxable year.
(2)
Individual described
An individual is described in this paragraph for a taxable year if—
(A)
the sum of the taxpayer’s itemized deductions equals or exceeds $150,000, and
(B)
the taxpayer (and the taxpayer’s spouse in the case of a joint return) fails to submit proof of a clean drug test with the return of tax for the taxable year.
(3)
Definitions
For purposes of this subsection—
(A)
Clean drug test
The term
clean drug test
means a test completed within 3 months before the date on which the return of tax is filed which shows that the taxpayer (or the taxpayer’s spouse in the case of joint return) did not test positive for any controlled substance.
(B)
Proof
Proof shall not be taken into account unless the proof is—
(i)
of a drug test conducted by an employer of the taxpayer,
(ii)
from a program certified by a State, or
(iii)
provided by certified letter from a medical review officer.
(C)
Medical review officer
The term
medical review officer
means an individual who qualifies as a medical review officer under the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing, promulgated by the Department of Health and Human Services, effective October 1, 2010 (73 Fed. Reg. 71858).
(D)
Controlled substance
The term
controlled substance
means a controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 802
) that is not used by the tested individual pursuant to a valid prescription or as otherwise authorized by law.
.
(b)
Effective date
The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015.
