1.
Assistance and sustainment to the military and national security forces of Ukraine
(a)
In general
The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including training, equipment, lethal weapons of a defensive nature, logistics support, supplies and services, and sustainment to the military and national security forces of Ukraine, through September 30, 2017, to assist the government of Ukraine for the following purposes:
(1)
Securing its sovereign territory against foreign aggressors.
(2)
Protecting and defending the Ukrainian people from attacks posed by Russian-backed separatists.
(3)
Promoting the conditions for a negotiated settlement to end the conflict.
(b)
Notice before provision of assistance
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under this Act, not more than 10 percent of such funds may be obligated or expended until not later than 15 days after the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report in unclassified form with a classified annex as appropriate that contains a description of the plan for providing such assistance, including a description of the types of training and equipment to be provided, the estimated number and role of United States Armed Forces personnel involved, the potential or actual locations of any training, and any other relevant details.
(c)
Quarterly reports
Not later than 105 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report required in subsection (b), and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the activities carried out under this Act. Such report shall include a description of the following:
(1)
Updates or changes to the plan required under subsection (b).
(2)
A description of the forces provided with training, equipment, or other assistance under this Act during the preceding 90-day period.
(3)
A description of the equipment provided under this Act during the preceding 90-day period, including a detailed breakout of any lethal assistance provided.
(4)
A statement of the amount of funds expended during the preceding 90-day period.
(d)
Vetting
The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall ensure that all assistance provided under this Act is carried out in full accordance with the provisions of section 2249e of title 10, United States Code.
(e)
Definition
In this Act, the term
appropriate congressional committees
means—
(1)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and
(2)
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(f)
Funding
To carry out the provisions of this Act, there are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000,000. Amounts authorized to be appropriated under this subsection are authorized to remain available until September 30, 2017.
(g)
Authority To accept contributions
The Secretary of Defense may accept and retain contributions, including in-kind contributions, from foreign governments, to provide assistance authorized under subsection (a). Any funds so accepted by the Secretary may be credited to the account from which funds are made available to provide assistance authorized under subsection (a) and may remain available to provide assistance authorized under subsection (a) until September 30, 2017.
(h)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for the introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into situations in which hostilities are clearly indicated by the circumstances.
