1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Corporate Crime Database Act
.
2.
Attorney General to acquire data on corporate-related crime
Under the authority of
section 534
of title 28, United States Code, and in accordance with this
Act, the Attorney General shall acquire data, for each calendar year,
regarding all administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings
initiated or concluded by the Federal Government and State governments
against any corporation or corporate official acting in an official
capacity involving a felony or misdemeanor charge or any civil charge
where potential fines may be $1,000 or more.
3.
Administrative details
(a)
Reporting by Federal agencies
Each department and agency within the Federal Government shall report details about all
administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings initiated or
concluded in that department or agency’s jurisdiction to the Attorney
General in a uniform manner and in a form prescribed by the Attorney
General.
(b)
Guidelines
The Attorney General shall establish guidelines for the collection of data and otherwise to carry
out the purposes of this Act.
(c)
Treatment of causes of action
Nothing in this Act creates a cause of action or a right to bring an action. This Act does not
limit any existing cause of action or right to bring an action.
4.
Public Web site
The Attorney General shall establish and maintain a publicly available Web site with a database of
information regarding improper conduct by all corporations with revenues,
as determined under rules prescribed by the Attorney General, of over
$1,000,000,000 per annum.
5.
Information included in database
The database—
(1)
shall consist of information regarding all administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings
initiated or concluded by the Federal Government and State governments
against any corporation or corporate official acting in an official
capacity involving a felony or misdemeanor charge or any civil charge
where potential fines may be $1,000 or more; and
(2)
shall include, for each proceeding, a brief description of the proceeding, including the agency
bringing the charge, the charge, the name of the company charged, the
ultimate parent company of the company charged, the locations of both the
company and parent company, and the outcome of the action if any,
including plea agreements, consent decrees, findings of innocence,
convictions, fines and other penalties.
6.
Input of data
The Attorney General shall design and maintain the database in a manner that allows the appropriate
officials of each Federal department or agency directly to input and
update in the database information relating to actions that department or
agency has taken with regard to criminal or civil enforcement actions.
7.
Report
The Attorney General shall prepare an annual report to Congress detailing the number of civil,
administrative, and criminal enforcement actions brought against any
corporation or corporate official acting in an official capacity as well
as the ultimate disposition (including the magnitude and category of any
penalties assessed).
