1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Ensuring Healthy Beginnings Act
.
2.
Giving priority to certain eligible entities under maternal, infant, and early childhood home visitation program
(a)
In general
Section 511(c) of the Social Security Act (
42 U.S.C. 711(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(5)
Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applications submitted by an eligible entities that are working in partnership with qualified community partners.
(6)
Standardized materials
The Secretary shall develop standard materials on the availability of the items and services described in subsection (k)(5) for dissemination by eligible entities whose applications are given priority under paragraph (5).
.
(b)
Definitions
Section 511(k) of the Social Security Act is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
(4)
Community partner
The term
community partner
includes any of the following:
(A)
A local educational agency, elementary school, or secondary school (as those terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (
20 U.S.C. 7801
)).
(B)
A law enforcement agency.
(C)
A hospital, community health center, or a local healthcare organization that furnishes items and services primarily to pregnant women, infants, and young children.
(5)
Qualified community partner
The term
qualified community partner
means a community partner that provides, with respect to pregnant women, first-time mothers, and families described in subsection (d)(4), any of the following items and services:
(A)
Outreach services.
(B)
Literature, including pamphlets, newsletters, or online mass distributions.
(C)
Assistance in obtaining any information on assistance which a pregnant woman, first-time mother, or a family described in such subsection may be eligible to receive, including counseling, employment and training assistance, educational assistance, and health care services.
(D)
Assistance in obtaining and coordinating the provision of other public benefits provided through Federal, State or local agencies or other community partners, including any of the following services:
(i)
Marriage counseling.
(ii)
Child assistance services.
(iii)
Suicide prevention services.
(iv)
Substance abuse awareness and treatment services.
(v)
Mental health awareness and treatment services.
(vi)
Financial counseling.
(vii)
Anger management counseling.
(viii)
Domestic violence awareness and prevention services.
(ix)
Employment assistance.
(x)
Transportation services.
(xi)
Child care services.
(xii)
Housing counseling.
(xiii)
Assistance with preparing and updating family care plans.
.
(c)
Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to grants awarded on or after the date of the enactment of this section.
