1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Career-Ready Student Veterans Act
.
2.
Approval of courses using educational assistance provided by Department of Veterans Affairs
(a)
Approval of non-Accredited courses
Subsection (c) of section 3676 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1)
by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (16); and
(2)
by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new paragraphs:
(14)
In the case of a program designed to prepare an individual for licensure or certification in a State, the program meets any instructional curriculum licensure or certification requirements of such State.
(15)
In the case of a program designed to prepare an individual for employment pursuant to standards developed by a board or agency of a State in an occupation that requires approval or licensure, the program is approved or licensed by such board or agency of the State.
.
(b)
Exceptions
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
(f)
The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (14) or (15) of subsection (c) in the case of a program of education offered by an educational institution if the Secretary determines the following:
(1)
The educational institution is accredited by an agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education.
(2)
The program did not meet the requirements of such paragraph at any time during the two-year period preceding the date of the waiver.
(3)
The waiver furthers the purposes of the educational assistance programs administered by the Secretary or would further the education interests of individuals eligible for assistance under such programs.
(4)
The educational institution does not provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not eligible to receive Federal student assistance.
.
(c)
Approval of accredited courses at for-Profit educational institutions
Section 3675(b)(3) of such title is amended—
(1)
by striking
and (3)
and inserting
(3), (14), and (15)
; and
(2)
by inserting before the period at the end the following:
(or, with respect to such paragraphs (14) and (15), the requirements under such paragraphs are waived pursuant to subsection (f) of section 3676)
.
(d)
Applicability
If after enrollment in a course of education that is subject to disapproval by reason of an amendment made by this Act, an individual pursues one or more courses of education at the same educational institution while remaining continuously enrolled (other than during regularly scheduled breaks between courses, semesters or terms) at that institution, any course so pursued by the individual at that institution while so continuously enrolled shall not be subject to disapproval by reason of such amendment.
