1.
Review of FAA programs of new disadvantaged small business concerns
Section 140 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (
49 U.S.C. 47113
note) is amended—
(1)
in subsection (c)—
(A)
in paragraph (1) by striking
each of fiscal years 2013 through 2015
and inserting
fiscal year 2016 and periodically thereafter
; and
(B)
in paragraph (3)(A) by striking
a list
and inserting
from the large and medium hub airports in the United States that have a disadvantaged business enterprise program, a list
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(d)
Assessment of efforts
Each fiscal year the Inspector General shall assess the efforts of the Federal Aviation Administration in the last 6 months of the previous fiscal year to implement recommendations suggested in previous reports issued pursuant to this section.
.
2.
Annual tracking of certain new firms at airports with a disadvantaged business enterprise program
(a)
Number of DBEs
Beginning in fiscal year 2016, and each year thereafter, the Administrator shall require airports to report on the number of new DBEs that were awarded a contract or concession during such fiscal year.
(b)
Training
The Administrator shall provide training on an ongoing basis to airports that comply with subsection (a).
(c)
Reporting
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act and every year thereafter, the Administrator shall update DBE-connect or any other successor online reporting system to include information on the number of new DBE and Airport Concession Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBEs) that are awarded a contract or concession for the first time at large and medium hub airports with a DBE program.
(d)
Definitions
In this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Administrator
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(2)
DBE
(A)
In general
The term
DBE
means an enterprise described in subsection (a) that is certified in accordance with part 26 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(B)
New DBE
The term,
new DBE
means a DBE that participated in a contract or concession agreement for the first time in the fiscal year under review.
3.
Audits
The Inspector General of the Department of Transportation shall conduct regular audits of the accuracy of the data on DBEs and participation contained in the online reporting database developed by DBE-connect or any similar or successor online reporting database developed by the Federal Aviation Administration.
