1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support Act of 2015
or the
VETS Act of 2015
.
2.
Licensure of health care professionals of the Department of Veterans Affairs providing treatment via telemedicine
(a)
In general
Chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding after section 1730A the following new section:
1730B.
Licensure of health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine
(a)
In general
Notwithstanding any provision of law regarding the licensure of health care professionals, a covered health care professional may practice the health profession of the health care professional at any location in any State, the District of Columbia, or a Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, regardless of where such health care professional or the patient is located, if the health care professional is using telemedicine to provide treatment to an individual under this chapter.
(b)
Property of Federal Government
Subsection (a) shall apply to a covered health care professional providing treatment to a patient regardless of whether such health care professional or patient is located in a facility owned by the Federal Government during such treatment.
(c)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
The term
covered health care professional
means a health care professional who is—
(A)
authorized by the Secretary to provide health care under this chapter, including a private health care professional who provides such care under a contract entered into with the Secretary, including a contract entered into under section 1703 of this title; and
(B)
licensed, nationally registered, or certified to practice the health care profession of the health care professional.
(2)
The term
telemedicine
means the use of telecommunication technology and information technology to support the provision of health care in situations where the patient and health care professional are separated by geographic distance.
(d)
Construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to remove, limit, or otherwise affect any obligation of a covered health care professional under the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.
).
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1730A the following new item:
1730B. Licensure of health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine.
.
