1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Hershel ‘Woody' Williams National Medal of Honor Monument Location Act
.
2.
Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1)
Congress in 2021 unanimously passed, and the President signed,
Public Law 117–80
(
40 U.S.C. 8903
note), which authorized the National Medal of Honor Museum Foundation to establish on Federal land in the District of Columbia a commemorative work to honor the acts of valor, selfless service, and sacrifice displayed by Medal of Honor recipients.
(2)
The Medal of Honor was established by President Abraham Lincoln and first awarded 160 years ago on March 25, 1863, and is part of Lincoln’s lasting and living legacy.
(3)
In 1991, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush, this legacy was extended further when National Medal of Honor Day was established as March 25th of each year.
(4)
The Medal of Honor is awarded to all branches of the United States Armed Forces as our nation’s highest recognition for valor in combat.
(5)
The number of living Medal of Honor recipients has been steadily declining, making it even more crucial to honor and recognize their heroic sacrifices and inspire future generations.
(6)
Hershel
Woody
Williams, the last World War II Medal of Honor recipient, passed away in 2022 and laid in honor at the United States Capitol.
(7)
The Medal of Honor represents the very best of our Nation—ordinary citizens, who took extraordinary action above and beyond the call of duty and became heroes of our Republic.
(8)
These examples inspire all citizens and ignite within us the very spirit of America.
(9)
The Medal of Honor rises to the level of supreme national and historical importance necessary to warrant representation on the National Mall.
(10)
Locating the National Medal of Honor Monument in close proximity to the Lincoln Memorial within the Reserve would be a respectful extension of his enduring legacy and recognition of what ordinary people can accomplish when working for the greater good.
3.
National Medal of Honor Monument Location
(a)
Site
Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40, United States Code, the commemorative work authorized by section 1(a) of
Public Law 117–80
(
40 U.S.C. 8903
note) shall be located within the Reserve (as defined in section 8902(a) of title 40, United States Code).
(b)
Applicability of Commemorative Works Act
Except as provided in subsection (a),
chapter 89
of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the
Commemorative Works Act
), shall apply to the commemorative work.
