1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Temporary Family Visitation Act
.
2.
Family purpose nonimmigrant visas for relatives of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents seeking to enter the United States temporarily
(a)
Establishment of new nonimmigrant visa category
Section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(B)
) is amended by striking
and who is visiting the United States temporarily for business or temporarily for pleasure;
and inserting
and who is visiting the United States temporarily for—
(i)
business;
(ii)
pleasure; or
(iii)
family purposes;
.
(b)
Requirements applicable to family purpose visas
Section 214 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1184
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(s)
Requirements applicable to family purpose visas
(1)
Definitions
In this subsection and section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii):
(A)
Family purposes
The term
family purposes
means any visit by a relative for a social or occasional purpose, a major life event, a religious event, or for any other purpose.
(B)
Relative
The term
relative
means the spouse, child, son, daughter, grandchild, parent, grandparent, great-grandparent, sibling, uncle, aunt, niece, or nephew of a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(2)
Requirement
A relative seeking admission pursuant to a visa issued under section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) is inadmissible unless—
(A)
the individual petitioning for such admission, or an additional sponsor, has submitted to the Secretary of Homeland Security an undertaking under section 213 in the form of a declaration of financial support;
(B)
such relative has obtained, for the duration of his or her stay in the United States, a short-term travel medical insurance policy or an existing health insurance policy that provides coverage for international medical expenses; and
(C)
such relative expresses intent to leave the United States at the conclusion of the period of authorized admission.
(3)
Period of authorized admission
The period of authorized admission for a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) shall not exceed 90 days per calendar year.
(4)
Petitioner eligibility
(A)
In general
An individual may not petition for the admission of a relative as a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) if the individual previously petitioned for the admission of such a relative who—
(i)
was admitted to the United States pursuant to a visa issued under that section as a result; and
(ii)
overstayed his or her period of authorized admission.
(B)
Previous petitioners
An individual filing a declaration of financial support for the admission of a relative as a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) who has previously provided a declaration of financial support for such a relative shall certify to the Secretary of Homeland Security that the relative whose admission the individual previously supported did not overstay his or her period of authorized admission or provide an explanation of why the relative’s overstay was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the relative. A certification under this subparagraph shall be subject to section 1001 of title 18, United States Code.
(C)
Waiver
The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive the application of section 212(a)(9)(B) in the case of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) who overstayed his or her period of authorized admission due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the nonimmigrant.
.
(c)
Restriction on change of status
Section 248(a)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1258(a)(1)
) is amended to read as follows:
(1)
an alien classified as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (B)(iii), (C), (D), (K), or (S) of section 101(a)(15),
.
(d)
Family purpose visa eligibility while awaiting immigrant visa
(1)
In general
Notwithstanding section 214(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1184(b)
), a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) of that Act who has been classified as an immigrant under section 201 of that Act (
8 U.S.C. 1151
) and is awaiting the availability of an immigrant visa subject to the numerical limitations under section 203 of that Act (
8 U.S.C. 1153
) may be admitted pursuant to a family purpose visa, in accordance with section 214(s) of that Act, if the individual is otherwise eligible for admission.
(2)
Limitation
An alien admitted as a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not be considered to have been admitted to the United States for purposes of section 245(a) of that Act (
8 U.S.C. 1255(a)
).
(e)
Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act, shall be construed—
(1)
to limit the authority of immigration officers to refuse to admit to the United States an applicant under section 101(a)(15)(B)(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act who fails to meet one or more of the criteria under section 214(s) of that Act, or who is inadmissible under section 212(a) of that Act; or
(2)
to preclude the application of section 101(a)(15)(B)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to family travel for pleasure in accordance with the policies and procedures in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
