1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Transit Crime Reporting Act of 2025
.
2.
Annual report on transit crime
(a)
Definition
In this section, the term
federally funded transit system
means a transit system that receives amounts—
(1)
authorized to be appropriated under
chapter 53
of title 49, United States Code; or
(2)
appropriated under the heading
Federal Transit Administration
under the heading
Department of Transportation
in title VIII of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (
Public Law 117–58
; 135 Stat. 1437).
(b)
Annual report
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and not later than January 1 of each year thereafter, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on all crime occurring on federally funded transit systems that transit agencies are required to report to the National Transit Database, disaggregated by violent and non-violent crime.
3.
Task force
(a)
Definitions
In this section—
(1)
the term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration; and
(2)
the term
Task Force
means the task force established under subsection (b).
(b)
Establishment
The Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration shall establish a task force to provide recommendations for enhancing safety on transit systems.
(c)
Membership
The Task Force shall consist of—
(1)
the Administrator, who shall serve as chair of the Task Force; and
(2)
12 members appointed by the Administrator, of whom—
(A)
5 shall be leaders of 5 different transit agencies, of varying geographical diversity and locales, including urban, rural, and suburban areas, or their designees;
(B)
3 shall be representatives of law enforcement agencies;
(C)
2 shall be transit employee representatives, who shall be from different transit agencies than those led by the members appointed under subparagraph (A); and
(D)
2 shall be representatives of national transit associations.
(d)
Reports
(1)
Interim report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall submit an interim report to Congress.
(2)
Final report with recommendations
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall submit to Congress a report containing recommendations on ways that the Federal Government, through deregulatory, regulatory, or legislative action, can empower stakeholders to enhance safety on transit systems.
(e)
Applicability of Federal advisory committee requirements
Chapter 10
of title 5, United States Code, shall apply to the Task Force.
