1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Homes for American Families Act
.
2.
Amendment
(a)
In general
The Sherman Act (
15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
9.
Residential real estate contracts in restraint of trade
(a)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
Covered entity
(A)
In general
The term
covered entity
means—
(i)
real estate investment trust;
(ii)
an insurance company; or
(iii)
an investment company or private fund—
(I)
with assets under management of not less than $150,000,000; or
(II)
that is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by a person that directly or indirectly owns or controls 1 or more investment companies or private funds with total assets under management of not less than $150,000,000.
(B)
Aggregation rules
For purposes of determining the assets under management of an entity under subparagraph (A)(iii), all persons which are treated as a single employer under subsection (b) or (c) of
section 414
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be treated as one entity. For purposes of this subsection, in applying section 414(b) of such Code, section 1563 of such Code shall be applied without regard to subsection (b)(2) thereof.
(2)
Insurance company
The term
insurance company
has the meaning given the term in section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (
15 U.S.C. 80a–2(a)
).
(3)
Investment company
The term
investment company
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (
15 U.S.C. 80a–3
).
(4)
Private fund
The term
private fund
means a corporation that would be considered an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (
15 U.S.C. 80a–3
) but for the application of paragraph (1) or (7) of subsection (c) of such section 3.
(5)
Real estate investment trust
The term
real estate investment trust
has the meaning given the term in
section 856
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(6)
Residential real estate
The term
residential real estate
means—
(A)
a single-family home;
(B)
a condominium;
(C)
a townhouse; and
(D)
any land that has been zoned by a local government for the development of a property described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).
(b)
Contracts in restraint of trade
(1)
In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), any purchase by a covered entity of residential real estate shall be deemed a contract in restraint of trade in violation of section 1, except that the violation shall be civil only and no criminal penalty under that section, including a term of imprisonment, shall apply.
(2)
Exceptions
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a homebuilder, developer, or redeveloper if the units of residential real estate are being or have been constructed for ownership by a person or entity that is not prohibited from purchasing residential real estate under this subsection.
(3)
Application
Paragraph (1) shall only apply to the purchase of residential real estate on or after the date of enactment of this section.
(c)
Prioritized antitrust scrutiny and enforcement
The Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice shall prioritize the review of purchases of residential real estate by a covered entity for anti-competitive effects and prioritize enforcement of antitrust laws, as appropriate, against coordinated vacancy, pricing strategies, and other anticompetitive practices by covered entities in local residential real estate markets.
.
(b)
Effective date
This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
