1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Stop Russian Market Manipulation Act
.
2.
Prohibition on importation of certain minerals from the Russian Federation
(a)
In general
Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, no mineral specified in subsection (b) may be imported into the United States if the mineral is—
(1)
produced in the Russian Federation or by a Russian entity; or
(2)
determined to have been exchanged with, swapped for, or otherwise obtained in lieu of a mineral described in paragraph (1) in a manner designed to evade or circumvent the application of this section.
(b)
Minerals specified
The minerals specified in this subsection are the following:
(1)
Platinum, unwrought or in semimanufactured forms, classified under heading 7110 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (in this Act, referred to as the
HTS
), including—
(A)
palladium;
(B)
braggite;
(C)
rhodium; and
(D)
ruthenium.
(2)
Nickel classified under heading 2604 of the HTS.
(3)
Copper, ores and concentrates, classified under heading 2603 of the HTS, including zinc.
(c)
Termination
(1)
In general
The prohibition under subsection (a) shall, subject to paragraph (2), terminate on the date that is one year after the President certifies to Congress that the Government of the Russian Federation has ended all hostilities against Ukraine.
(2)
Probationary period
If, at any time during the 3-year period after the President submits a certification described in paragraph (1), the President certifies to Congress that the Government of the Russian Federation has resumed hostilities against Ukraine, the prohibition under subsection (a) shall—
(A)
resume effect;
(B)
remain in effect until the President submits to Congress another certification described in paragraph (1); and
(C)
after the President submits such a certification, be subject to resumption as described in this paragraph.
(d)
No waiver
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may not waive the prohibition under subsection (a).
(e)
Russian entity defined
In this section, the term
Russian entity
means an entity that is organized under the laws of, or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, the Russian Federation.
