1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Moab UMTRA Project Transition Act of 2025
.
2.
Moab UMTRA project
Section 3405(i) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (
10 U.S.C. 8720
note;
Public Law 105–261
) is amended—
(1)
by striking paragraph (5);
(2)
by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (5); and
(3)
by adding at the end the following:
(6)
Transfer of Moab site to Grand County
(A)
In general
Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), on achieving a remedial action completion status sufficient for land conveyance, as determined by the Secretary of Energy in consultation with relevant regulatory authorities, and subject to any regulatory or use restrictions, if determined necessary to protect human health and safety by the Secretary of Energy or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (including restrictions pursuant to the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (
42 U.S.C. 7901 et seq.
) and part 192 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)), the Secretary of Energy shall convey, at no cost, all available right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Moab site to Grand County, Utah.
(B)
Retention of certain water rights
In carrying out the conveyance under subparagraph (A), in accordance with applicable law, the Secretary of Energy shall ensure that the United States retains such water rights as the Secretary of Energy determines necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary of Energy under the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (
42 U.S.C. 7901 et seq.
), part 192 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), and other applicable requirements, including, if the remediation of groundwater is ongoing at the time of the conveyance, such rights as are necessary to maintain access to wells and the associated surface footprint of those wells.
(C)
Prohibition
The conveyance under subparagraph (A) shall include a provision that prohibits Grand County, Utah, from reconveying to a private entity or nonprofit organization any portion of the land conveyed to Grand County, Utah, under that subparagraph.
(D)
Additional terms and conditions
The Secretary of Energy may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subparagraph (A) as the Secretary determines necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
.
