1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Disaster Housing Reform for American Families Act
.
2.
Disaster assistance housing pilot program
Section 408(c) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (
42 U.S.C. 5174(c)
) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(5)
Pilot program
(A)
Definitions
In this paragraph:
(i)
Distributor; manufactured home; manufacturer; retailer
The terms
distributor
,
manufactured home
,
manufacturer
, and
retailer
have the meanings given those terms in section 603 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5402
).
(ii)
Eligible entity
The term
eligible entity
means—
(I)
a manufacturer, distributor, or retailer of a manufactured home or a modular home; and
(II)
a producer of modular housing.
(iii)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in coordination with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(B)
Establishment
The President shall establish a pilot program under which the President enters into a contract with an eligible entity for the purpose of constructing temporary housing to serve as a type of housing available to individuals and households under subsection (b)(1).
(C)
Requirements
Housing constructed pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall—
(i)
be in the form of a manufactured or modular housing structure with not more than 4 units;
(ii)
be available to individuals and households not later than 90 days (or 120 days, upon extension by the Secretary) after the date on which the President declares a major disaster;
(iii)
subject to subparagraph (D)(ii), conform with, as applicable—
(I)
construction standards of the National Flood Insurance Program;
(II)
standards for new construction under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (
42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.
);
(III)
standards under the most recent or second most recent edition of the International Residential Code;
(IV)
applicable building codes in the State, local, or Tribal jurisdiction in which the housing is located;
(V)
requirements of the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
(VI)
local zoning ordinances;
(VII)
the national technical standard for flood resistant design and construction (ASCE/SEI 24–14); or
(VIII)
the manufactured home and construction safety standards under part 3280 of title 24, Code of Regulations, or any successor regulation;
(iv)
reflect the needs of the community in which the housing is constructed according to the type of major disaster experienced by the community; and
(v)
provide a minimum level of protection against natural hazards for the purpose of protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of the users of the housing against disasters.
(D)
Permanence; waiver
Housing constructed pursuant to subparagraph (B) may—
(i)
have the capacity to become permanent housing after the date on which a major disaster declaration terminates; and
(ii)
receive a waiver for a requirement described in subparagraph (C)(iii) from the Secretary.
(E)
Transfer guidelines
The President, in coordination with the Secretary, shall establish guidelines for the transfer of housing constructed under subparagraph (B) to an established affordable housing program administered by a locality, public housing authority, nonprofit organization, or affordable housing developer after the date on which the disaster declaration for the major disaster for which the housing is constructed terminates.
(F)
Termination
The program established pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of the
Disaster Housing Reform for American Families Act
.
(6)
Closing costs
The President may provide financial assistance to individuals or households affected by a major disaster and purchasing a residential property for closing costs associated with obtaining a mortgage from a Federal program that provides affordable financing options.
.
