1.
Conveyance of specified Forest Service property to Perry County, Arkansas
(a)
Required conveyance
Subject to this section, if the County submits to the Secretary a written request for conveyance of the property described in subsection (b) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the County all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the property described in subsection (b).
(b)
Description of property
(1)
In general
The property referred to in subsection (a) is the parcel of real property, including all land and improvements, generally referred to as parcel 850–10555–001 in the urban property records of the County, consisting of approximately 0.81 acres of Forest Service land located at 1069 Fourche Avenue, Perryville, Arkansas 72126.
(2)
Survey
The exact acreage and legal description of land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
(c)
Terms and conditions
The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be—
(1)
subject to valid existing rights;
(2)
subject to reversion under subsection (g);
(3)
made without consideration;
(4)
made by quitclaim deed; and
(5)
subject to such other terms and conditions as the Secretary considers to be appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
(d)
Costs of conveyance
As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a), the County shall pay all costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of—
(1)
a survey, if necessary, under subsection (b)(2);
(2)
any environmental analysis or resources survey required under Federal law; and
(3)
any analysis required to comply with division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code (commonly referred to as the
National Historic Preservation Act
).
(e)
Environmental conditions
Notwithstanding section 120(h)(3)(A) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)(3)(A)), the Secretary shall not be required to provide any covenant or warranty for the property and improvements conveyed to the County under subsection (a).
(f)
Public purposes use
The property conveyed under subsection (a) shall be used only for public purposes, such as supporting education and youth development.
(g)
Reversion
If the property conveyed under subsection (a) ceases to be used in a manner consistent with subsection (f), the property shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.
(h)
Definitions
In this section:
(1)
County
The term
County
means Perry County, Arkansas.
(2)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
