1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Migrant Crime Reporting Act of 2026
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Eligible State
The term
eligible State
means a State that—
(A)
requests a migrant crime reporting grant for a fiscal year; and
(B)
for the fiscal year before the fiscal year for which the State requests a migrant crime reporting grant, makes publicly available on a website operated by the State and submits to the Secretary a migrant crime report for the State.
(2)
Migrant
The term
migrant
means a person who is unable to present a valid document issued to such person that is—
(A)
a Permanent Resident Card (Form I–551) issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services;
(B)
an official birth certificate issued by a State, local government, or territory of the United States or by the United States;
(C)
a valid, unexpired United States passport;
(D)
a Certificate of Citizenship (Form N–560 or Form N–561); or
(E)
a Certificate of Naturalization (Form N–550), a Replacement Certificate of Naturalization (Form N–570), or a Special Certificate of Naturalization (Form N–578).
(3)
Migrant crime report
The term
migrant crime report
means a report regarding the number of migrants who have been charged with or convicted of a criminal offense in a State during a fiscal year.
(4)
Migrant crime reporting grant
The term
migrant crime reporting grant
means a grant awarded under section 3(a).
(5)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(6)
State
The term
State
means each of the several States of the United States.
3.
Migrant crime reporting grants
(a)
In general
For fiscal year 2027, and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, award to each eligible State a grant in the amount of $1,000,000.
(b)
Use of funds
A State shall use amounts received under a migrant crime reporting grant to collect and analyze data from law enforcement agencies in each county, parish, borough, or other general purpose political subdivision of the State on the number of migrants who have been charged with or convicted of a criminal offense in the State.
(c)
Migrant crime reporting requirement
A State that receives a migrant crime reporting grant for a fiscal year shall make publicly available on a website operated by the State and submit to the Secretary a migrant crime report for the State with respect to the fiscal year.
4.
Funding
Section 100051 of the Act entitled
An Act to provide
for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14
, approved July 4, 2025
(Public Law 119–21; 139 Stat. 385) (commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill
Act
), is amended by adding at the end the following:
(13)
Migrant crime reporting grants
Awarding grants under the
Migrant Crime Reporting Act of 2026
.
.
