1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library Museum Artifacts Act
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Foundation
The term
Foundation
means the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library Foundation.
(2)
Library
The term
Library
means the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library to be located in Medora, North Dakota.
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
3.
Federal contributions toward establishment of the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library
(a)
Grants
(1)
Authorization
To the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary may provide to the Foundation grants in an amount not to exceed a total of $50,000,000 for the establishment of the Library—
(A)
to preserve and make available to the public materials relating to the life of President Theodore Roosevelt; and
(B)
to provide interpretive and educational services that communicate the meaning of the life of Theodore Roosevelt.
(2)
Matching requirement
The Secretary may not provide a grant under paragraph (1) until the date on which the Foundation certifies to the Secretary that the Foundation has received an amount equal to not less than $100,000,000 from funds for the Library—
(A)
contributed by the State of North Dakota; or
(B)
raised from non-Federal sources during the period beginning on the date on which the Foundation was established and ending on the date of the certification.
(3)
Prohibition on use of funds
Grant funds provided under this subsection may not be used for the maintenance or operation of the Library.
(b)
Federal artifacts and objects relating to theodore roosevelt
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary may enter into 1 or more agreements with the Foundation to provide for a loan to the Foundation from Federal agencies under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary (including the National Park Service and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) of historic, educational, artistic, natural, and other museum artifacts and objects, particularly artifacts and objects that are not on display to the public, without monetary consideration, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the preservation and exhibition of the artifacts and objects loaned to the Foundation.
(c)
Non-Federal operation
The Secretary or any other Federal entity shall have no involvement in the operation of the Library, except at the request of the non-Federal entity responsible for the operation of the Library in accordance with applicable laws (including regulations).
