118 HRES 518 IH: Pushing back against the labeling of attempts by parents to ensure school curriculum and sports are age and sex appropriate as extreme.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 518
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 15, 2023
Mrs. McClain
(for herself,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Babin
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Self
,
Mr. Higgins of Louisiana
, and
Mr. Webster of Florida
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Pushing back against the labeling of attempts by parents to ensure school curriculum and sports are age and sex appropriate as extreme.
Whereas all students should feel welcome in their classroom, but radical far-left ideas inappropriate for minors should not;
Whereas it is not extreme or hateful to believe children as young as 6 should not be subject to discussion about sexual orientation or gender ideology in the classroom;
Whereas it is not extreme or hateful to believe biological men should not compete against biological women in sports;
Whereas, while issues dealing with the history of slavery and racism should be taught in the classroom, courses centered around the false belief that America is systemically, structurally, or institutionally racist should not;
Whereas it is not extreme or hateful to believe that parents, not the government, should have the final say in their children’s education; and
Whereas attempts to express these views in a violent manner are inexcusable: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports parents having a say in their child’s education; and
(2)
opposes—
(A)
allowing biological boys and men to compete in biological girls and women’s sports;
(B)
the weakening of title IX protections; and
(C)
labeling parents as extreme and hateful for wanting to keep inappropriate material out of their child’s classroom.
