118 HRES 16 IH: Congratulating the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football National Championship.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-01-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 16
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 10, 2023
Mr. Carter of Georgia
(for himself,
Mr. Bishop of Georgia
,
Mr. Collins
,
Mrs. Greene of Georgia
,
Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia
,
Mr. Johnson of Georgia
,
Mr. Clyde
,
Mrs. McBath
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mr. Ferguson
,
Mr. Allen
,
Mr. Loudermilk
,
Mr. McCormick
, and
Mr. David Scott of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team for winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football National Championship.
Whereas the University of Georgia posted an impressive, undefeated record of 15–0 and won the 2022 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football Playoff National Championship, routing the Texas Christian University Horned Frogs by a score of 65–7 at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California, on January 9, 2023;
Whereas this victory marks the University of Georgia Bulldogs second College Football National Championship in two years, and fourth in program history, making the Bulldogs the first team in the playoff era to repeat national titles;
Whereas this historic victory follows a Southeastern Conference Championship and a Peach Bowl playoff victory;
Whereas the 2022–2023 Bulldogs offense averaged an impressive 494.9 yards and 39 points per game, with the defense allowing only 304.6 yards and 14.8 points per game all through 14 games, and the Bulldogs allowed only 188 yards and 7 points, while posting 589 yards of offense and 65 points in the championship game;
Whereas University of Georgia Head Football Coach, Kirby Smart, posts his second National Championship victory in his seventh year as the Bulldogs Head Coach and his third appearance in the championship game; and
Whereas with this remarkable season, Coach Smart extends his impressive record to 72 wins and 15 losses in his 7 years as Head Football Coach of the Bulldogs football team and cements his legacy in Dawg Nation forever: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team for an incredible season and winning the 2023 National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football National Championship Game;
(2)
recognizes the achievements of all players, coaches, and staff who made a championship possible; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the Clerk of the House of Representatives prepare an enrolled copy of this resolution for presentation to—
(A)
the President of the University of Georgia, Jere Morehead;
(B)
the Athletic Director of the University of Georgia, Josh Brooks; and
(C)
the Head Coach of the University of Georgia Bulldogs football team, Kirby Smart.
