118 HRES 515 IH: Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2023 ECHL’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-15
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 515
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 15, 2023
Mr. Donalds
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Commending the Florida Everblades hockey team for winning the 2023 ECHL’s Patrick J. Kelly Cup.
Whereas, on June 9, 2023, the Florida Everblades hockey team won the 2023 Kelly Cup by defeating the Idaho Steelheads by a score of 4 to 3 at Hertz Arena in Estero, Florida;
Whereas the victory by the Everblades in the championship game—
(1)
gives the Everblades the most ECHL Championships in league history;
(2)
makes the Everblades the fifth team to win consecutive ECHL Championships;
(3)
marked the third time in 11 years that the Everblades claimed an ECHL Championship; and
(4)
was the Everblades’ sixth appearance in the Kelly Cup Finals;
Whereas the Head Coach of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph, has been an outstanding role model and steadfast leader to the Everblades players and the community;
Whereas Cam Johnson, the 2023 Kelly Cup Playoffs Most Valuable Player, is the first player in ECHL history to win the postseason MVP award in consecutive seasons;
Whereas Levko Koper and Brandon Hickey assisted Tyler Irvine in scoring the game winning goal;
Whereas the Florida Everblades displayed relentless tenacity, unwavering composure, and exceptional teamwork this ECHL season in achieving the highest honor in the league; and
Whereas the Everblades have brought immense pride and honor to the State of Florida: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
commends the Florida Everblades for winning the 2023 Patrick J. Kelly Cup;
(2)
recognizes the on-ice and off-ice achievements of the players, coaches, and staff of the Florida Everblades; and
(3)
respectfully requests that the House Clerk transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to—
(A)
the owner of the Florida Everblades, David Hoffmann; and
(B)
the Head Coach of the Florida Everblades, Brad Ralph.
