118 HRES 877 IH: Condemning Mayor Muriel Bowser, Council Chair Phil Mendelson, Councilman Charles Allen, and the rest of the government of the city of Washington, DC, for their failure to stop the crime epidemic plaguing their city.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 877
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 17, 2023
Mr. Collins
(for himself,
Mr. Norman
,
Mr. Stauber
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mr. Duncan
,
Mr. Weber of Texas
,
Mr. Babin
,
Mr. LaMalfa
,
Mrs. Bice
, and
Mr. Arrington
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Condemning Mayor Muriel Bowser, Council Chair Phil Mendelson, Councilman Charles Allen, and the rest of the government of the city of Washington, DC, for their failure to stop the crime epidemic plaguing their city.
Whereas the policies of Mayor Bowser and the government of the city of Washington, DC (DC government), have made the citizens of Washington, DC, less safe;
Whereas this past year, Members of the House have seen colleagues attacked in elevators and carjacked by armed gunmen;
Whereas Members have witnessed many of their own staff members attacked or harassed this past year;
Whereas the policies of Mayor Bowser, Council Chair Phil Mendelson, Councilman Charles Allen, and the DC government are anti-police, anti-citizen, and pro-criminal;
Whereas Councilman Allen is the author of the Revised Criminal Code Act of 2022, which reduced mandatory minimum sentences for carjacking;
Whereas Council Chair Mendelson and Councilman Allen have led the charge for anti-police policies enacted in Washington, DC;
Whereas Washington, DC, has already seen a record number of homicides and violent crime is up compared to last year;
Whereas robberies in Washington, DC, are up compared to last year;
Whereas motor vehicle thefts are up and total property crimes are up compared to last year;
Whereas the Chief of the Metropolitan Police Department recently said that the Department is down approximately 500 officers; and
Whereas it is clear that the anti-police policies of the DC government have led to rising crime, declining enrollment in the police force, and a less safe city: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives condemns the actions of Mayor Muriel Bowser, Council Chair Phil Mendelson, Councilman Charles Allen, and the rest of the government of Washington, DC, for their failure to stop the crime epidemic plaguing their city.
