118 HRES 467 IH: Expressing support for the designation of the week of June 4 through June 10, 2023, as “National Trailer Safety Week” in the United States, and supporting the goals and ideals of National Trailer Safety Week to educate American motorists about the importance of proper towing techniques and maintenance.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 467
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 6, 2023
Mr. Yakym
(for himself,
Mr. Garamendi
, and
Mr. Burchett
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of the week of June 4 through June 10, 2023, as
National Trailer Safety Week
in the United States, and supporting the goals and ideals of National Trailer Safety Week to educate American motorists about the importance of proper towing techniques and maintenance.
Whereas
National Trailer Safety Week
was launched to raise awareness about the need for increased education on trailer safety to further reduce injuries and fatalities on the road;
Whereas educating end-users is crucial to utilize the connections that dealers and manufacturers have with consumers in order to raise awareness of proper towing techniques and maintenance;
Whereas national trailer usage has exhibited significant growth, as demonstrated by an 8-percent year-over-year increase in light- and medium-duty trailer registrations to more than 1,300,000 units; and
Whereas the National Association of Trailer Manufacturer’s Trailer Safety Week reaches hundreds of thousands of individuals each year, and is the first nationwide traffic safety initiative aimed at addressing safe towing practices for light- and medium-duty trailers: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the designation of
National Trailer Safety Week
; and
(2)
expresses strong support for—
(A)
the goals and ideals of National Trailer Safety Week;
(B)
efforts to increase awareness of the importance of being committed to trailer safety;
(C)
educating end-users about proper trailer maintenance and usage;
(D)
creating a stronger partnership and alliance between stakeholders of the industry, including suppliers, trailer dealers, and manufacturers, and end-users; and
(E)
encouraging the people of the United States to participate in National Trailer Safety Week events and activities, and educate themselves and others on the importance of regularly inspecting, maintaining, and operating light- and medium-duty trailers.
