118 HRES 899 IH: Recognizing the Suicide Awareness and Remembrance Flag.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-11-30
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 899
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 30, 2023
Mr. Garbarino
(for himself,
Mr. Ryan
,
Mr. Self
,
Mr. Morelle
,
Ms. Malliotakis
, and
Ms. Tenney
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services
, and in addition to the Committee on
Veterans' Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the Suicide Awareness and Remembrance Flag.
Whereas military and veterans continue to be at great risk to die by suicide amongst the United States population;
Whereas military and veterans are nearly two times as likely to die by suicide compared to their civilian counterparts, and over 20 veterans and military die by suicide each day in the United States;
Whereas the United States has lost over 100,000 veterans to suicide since 2001, and post 9/11 veterans continue to be at the greatest risk to die by suicide among the veteran population;
Whereas suicide prevention services are vastly underutilized by our military and veterans due to the stigma of mental health, suicide, and seeking treatment;
Whereas the Suicide Awareness and Remembrance Flag (known as the
S-A-R Flag
), was created by United States Air Force Veteran Kevin W. Hertell, who lost his cousin to suicide in 2016, Senior Airman Robert McRae Dean, United States Air Force;
Whereas Congress would establish the SAR Flag as an official symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to recognize and resolve military and veteran suicide, break the stigma of mental health, suicide, and seeking treatment within the warrior culture of military and veterans to facilitate suicide prevention, and to honor the service and forever remember the lives of those veterans and military who died by suicide, as well as to honor, respect, and unite their families;
Whereas the SAR Flag also stands as a tangible symbol of hope to living veterans and military to show that we stand with them as they serve our country and transition back to civilian life and remind them that stigma-free treatment is available to facilitate suicide prevention; and
Whereas we seek to elevate this issue in the public consciousness and raise our continued awareness, which promotes open dialogue and understanding about mental health issues among veterans and military members, breaks down the stigmas surrounding seeking help, and ensures that our veterans and military have access to the necessary resources and support without judgment: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
officially recognizes the Suicide Awareness and Remembrance Flag and designates the flag as the Nation’s symbol to raise our continued awareness of military and veteran suicide, as well as our commitment to recognize and resolve military and veteran suicide;
(2)
forever remembers the lives and honors the service of those military and veterans who have died by suicide;
(3)
commits to the raising of awareness of veteran and military suicide via the SAR flag; and
(4)
commits to posting the SAR Flag above all Federal buildings wherever there is an American Flag and POW/MIA Flag, 365 days of the calendar year.
