118 HRES 740 IH: Expressing support for the designation of September 30, 2023, as “National Veterans Suicide Awareness and Prevention Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-09-28
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 740
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 28, 2023
Mr. Joyce of Ohio
(for himself,
Mrs. Sykes
,
Mr. Latta
,
Mr. Johnson of Ohio
,
Mr. Carter of Texas
,
Mr. Landsman
,
Mr. Miller of Ohio
,
Mr. Balderson
,
Mr. Carey
, and
Ms. Brown
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of September 30, 2023, as
National Veterans Suicide Awareness and Prevention Day
.
Whereas the wounds sustained through armed service to the United States are both visible and invisible;
Whereas some wounds sustained through armed service to the United States may be invisible, but those wounds are treatable if the bearers of those wounds are connected to the right resources;
Whereas the Department of Veterans Affairs determined that an average of nearly 17 veterans die by suicide each day;
Whereas veterans account for a disproportionate percentage of all adult suicides in the United States;
Whereas the surviving family members of veterans who succumb to the invisible wounds of armed service to the United States must not be forgotten and isolated but instead must be directed to available resources and support;
Whereas after the loss of a veteran family member to the invisible wounds of armed service to the United States, the family members of that veteran must not lose their link to the support and strength of the military and veteran communities;
Whereas the families of veterans who die by suicide hold valuable
lessons learned on the lookback
that can be used to prevent future suicides in veteran populations;
Whereas the voices of the surviving family members of veterans who die by suicide are useful and should be leveraged in prevention efforts;
Whereas the need for formal recognition of the families of veterans who succumb to the invisible wounds of armed service to the United States is vital to the strength, health, and survival of the veteran community;
Whereas those families should be recognized, supported, and heard on National Veterans Suicide Awareness and Prevention Day and throughout the year; and
Whereas September 30, 2023, is an appropriate day to designate as
National Veterans Suicide Awareness and Prevention Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports the designation of
National Veterans Suicide Awareness and Prevention Day
.
