118 HRES 1363 IH: Honoring the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-07-18
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1363
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 18, 2024
Mr. Newhouse
(for himself,
Mr. Valadao
,
Mr. Moylan
,
Mr. Bost
,
Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. Smith of Nebraska
,
Mr. Flood
,
Ms. Hageman
,
Mr. Carter of Georgia
,
Mr. Bentz
, and
Mr. LaMalfa
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Honoring the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch.
Whereas Patrick Gottsch was born on June 3, 1953, in Elkhorn, Nebraska;
Whereas Patrick Gottsch grew up on a family farm raising corn, soybeans, and cattle;
Whereas Patrick Gottsch founded Rural Media Group, Inc., which is the parent company for RFD–TV, RURAL RADIO, The Cowboy Channel, and The Cowgirl Channel;
Whereas, in December 2000, Patrick Gottsch launched Rural Free Delivery Television (RFD–TV) on DISH Network, as the first 24-hour television network devoted to rural America, and features programming focused on the agribusiness, equine, and the rural lifestyle, along with traditional country music and entertainment, which has sparked a new generation of farmers and ranchers throughout rural America;
Whereas Patrick Gottsch expanded Rural Media Group, Inc., to include RURAL RADIO, The Cowboy Channel, and The Cowgirl Channel;
Whereas The Cowboy Channel is credited with revolutionizing western sports, providing rodeo with a media platform on par with traditional urban sports;
Whereas RFD–TV, The Cowboy Channel, and The Cowgirl Channel are broadcast to more than 40,000,000 homes worldwide;
Whereas RFD–TV has received many awards and has been deemed
Rural America’s Most Important Network
;
Whereas Patrick Gottsch is survived by his 3 daughters, Raquel, Gatsby, and Rose, and his wife, Angie;
Whereas, on May 18, 2024, Patrick Gottsch passed away, and is buried in his hometown of Elkhorn, Nebraska; and
Whereas this resolution honors the life of Patrick Gottsch, founder of Rural Media Group, Inc., who has educated and inspired decades of ranchers and farmers around rural America: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives honors the life and legacy of Patrick Gottsch.
