118 HRES 1125 RH: Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 7888) to reform the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 529) to extend the customs waters of the United States, consistent with presidential proclamation 7219; providing for consideration of the resolution (H.Res. 1112) denouncing the Biden’s administration’s immigration policies; and providing for consideration of the resolution (H.Res. 1117) opposing efforts to place one-sided pressure on Israel with respect to Gaza.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-04-10
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
House Calendar No. 69
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1125
[Report No. 118–450]
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 10, 2024
Mr. Roy
, from the Committee on Rules
, reported the following resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
RESOLUTION
Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 7888) to reform the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 529) to extend the customs waters of the United States, consistent with presidential proclamation 7219; providing for consideration of the resolution (H.Res. 1112) denouncing the Biden’s administration’s immigration policies; and providing for consideration of the resolution (H.Res. 1117) opposing efforts to place one-sided pressure on Israel with respect to Gaza.
That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7888) to reform the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed two hours equally divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees and the chair and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence or their respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
2.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 529) to extend the customs waters of the United States from 12 nautical miles to 24 nautical miles from the baselines of the United States, consistent with Presidential Proclamation 7219. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
3.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1112) denouncing the Biden administration’s immigration policies. The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees.
4.
Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1117) opposing efforts to place one-sided pressure on Israel with respect to Gaza. The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or their respective designees.
April 10, 2024
Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
