118 HRES 1429 IH: Congratulating the Olympians and Paralympians of Michigan who competed in the 2024 Olympics and Paralympics in Paris, France.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1429
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 9, 2024
Mr. James
(for himself,
Ms. Tlaib
,
Mr. Bergman
,
Mr. Thanedar
,
Mr. Walberg
,
Ms. Scholten
,
Mr. Huizenga
,
Mr. Kildee
,
Mr. Moolenaar
,
Mrs. Dingell
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Ms. Slotkin
, and
Ms. Stevens
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Congratulating the Olympians and Paralympians of Michigan who competed in the 2024 Olympics and Paralympics in Paris, France.
Whereas the United States participants of the 2024 Paris Olympics and Paralympics honored the Nation through their dedication and patriotism;
Whereas 46 States are represented on Team USA, and 203 National Olympic Committees are represented across the globe;
Whereas the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee (USOPC) saw 637 athletes in Paris;
Whereas the Olympic symbol expresses the activity of the Olympic Movement and represents the union of the five continents and the meeting of athletes from throughout the world at the Olympic and Paralympic Games;
Whereas the goal of Olympism is to place sport at the service of the harmonious development of humankind, with a view to promoting a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity;
Whereas the Opening Ceremony for the 2024 Paris Olympics broadcast was viewed by 28.6 million viewers;
Whereas the USOPC recognized Michiganders that competed in Paris;
Whereas Heath Baldwin competed in track and field;
Whereas Bobby Body competed in para powerlifting;
Whereas Devin Booker competed in basketball;
Whereas Kate Brim competed in para cycling;
Whereas Adam Coon competed in wrestling;
Whereas Aaron Cummings competed in rugby;
Whereas Andrew Evans competed in track and field;
Whereas Grant Fisher competed in track and field;
Whereas Zach Hammer competed in sport climbing;
Whereas Hobbs Kessler competed in track and field;
Whereas Sorin Koszyk competed in rowing;
Whereas Evan Medell competed in para taekwondo;
Whereas Alena Olsen competed in rugby;
Whereas Hanna Roberts competed in BMX freestyle cycling;
Whereas Jayci Simon competed in para badminton;
Whereas Grace Stark competed in track and field;
Whereas Abby Tamer competed in field hockey;
Whereas Jaydin Blackwell competed in para track and field;
Whereas Paul Schulte competed in wheelchair basketball; and
Whereas the United States won the most medals at the 2024 Paris Olympics: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the Michigan Olympians and Paralympians of the 2024 Paris Olympics and Paralympics;
(2)
honors the heroic efforts of all the Michigan Olympians and Paralympians and their accomplishments at the 2024 Paris Olympics and Paralympics;
(3)
recognizes the achievements of the players, coaches, and support staff who were instrumental in the United States victory; and
(4)
honors the unifying nature of the Olympic and Paralympic games and their role in promoting a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity.
