118 HRES 1454 IH: Censuring Representatives Bennie Thompson, Troy Carter, Barbara Lee, Frederica Wilson, Yvette Clarke, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Jasmine Crockett, Joyce Beatty, and Steve Cohen for inciting violence, including two assassination attempts, against President Donald Trump.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1454
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 17, 2024
Ms. Greene of Georgia
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ethics
RESOLUTION
Censuring Representatives Bennie Thompson, Troy Carter, Barbara Lee, Frederica Wilson, Yvette Clarke, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Jasmine Crockett, Joyce Beatty, and Steve Cohen for inciting violence, including two assassination attempts, against President Donald Trump.
Whereas Representative Bennie Thompson has introduced H. R. 8081, the DISGRACED Former Protectees Act, targeting President Donald J. Trump by attempting to remove his United States Secret Service protection, which is granted to all former presidents;
Whereas Representatives Troy Carter, Barbara Lee, Frederica Wilson, Yvette Clarke, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Jasmine Crockett, Joyce Beatty, and Steve Cohen are cosponsors of the bill;
Whereas a staffer of Representative Bennie Thompson said after the first assassination attempt on President Trump,
I don’t condone violence but please get you some shooting lessons so you don’t miss next time . . . oops that wasn’t me talking.
;
Whereas Representative Jasmine Crockett lashed out in a recent interview, just hours before the second assassination attempt on President Trump, saying,
MAGA in general—they are threats to us domestically.
;
Whereas Representative Steve Cohen said,
Trump is an enemy of the United States.
; and
Whereas Representative Joyce Beatty said President Trump
stepped on our democracy. He defied the Constitution.
: Now, therefore, be it
That—
(1)
the House of Representatives censures Representatives Bennie Thompson, Troy Carter, Barbara Lee, Frederica Wilson, Yvette Clark, Bonnie Coleman, Jasmine Crockett, Joyce Beatty, and Steve Cohen, for inciting violence, including two assassination attempts, against President Donald Trump;
(2)
these Representatives will forthwith present themselves in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3)
these Representatives will be censured with the public reading of this resolution by the Speaker.
