118 HRES 198 IH: Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 111th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a safe, inclusive space where they can explore their world, build meaningful relationships, and have access to experiences that prepare them for a life of leadership.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-07
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 198
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 7, 2023
Mrs. Kim of California
(for herself,
Ms. Wasserman Schultz
,
Mrs. Rodgers of Washington
,
Mrs. Watson Coleman
,
Mr. Tonko
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Ms. Williams of Georgia
,
Mrs. Lee of Nevada
,
Ms. McCollum
,
Ms. Mace
,
Ms. Lee of California
, and
Ms. Kaptur
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Recognizing Girl Scouts of the United States of America on its 111th birthday and celebrating its legacy of providing girls with a safe, inclusive space where they can explore their world, build meaningful relationships, and have access to experiences that prepare them for a life of leadership.
Whereas March 12, 2023, marks the 111th anniversary of Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the largest and most impactful leadership program for girls in the world;
Whereas, today, more than 50,000,000 women—trailblazers, visionaries, and leaders—are Girl Scout alums who have made the world a better place;
Whereas, in July 2023, Girl Scouts will host its triennial convention where more than 10,000 girls, alums, and supporters from across the movement will gather to explore, create, and grow alongside thousands of fellow changemakers, dreamers, and doers;
Whereas, during a time when girls are dealing with the impacts of pandemic-related learning loss, Girl Scouts offers important out-of-school and afterschool learning enrichment and skill-building opportunities that expand their world, allow them to cultivate their talents, and ensure they can confidently pursue their passions and make the world a better place;
Whereas, since its beginnings, Girl Scouts has emphasized public service and civic engagement, and has fostered a sense of community in girls;
Whereas during a time when girls are experiencing increased levels of anxiety, stress, loneliness, and depression, Girl Scouts continues to provide community, consistency, and connection for girls and is a safe haven in all the uncertainty;
Whereas Girl Scouts’ commitment to getting girls outdoors, including exciting summer camp experiences, instills a lifelong appreciation for nature and the environment, and is more critical than ever as the Nation emerges from the pandemic;
Whereas at a time when civics education is missing from many schools, Girl Scouts engages girls of all grade levels in civics programming that deepens their understanding of democracy and government, prepares them for a lifetime of civic engagement, and motivates them to take action on issues that are important to them;
Whereas Girl Scouts offers girls 21st century programming in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), the outdoors, entrepreneurship, and beyond, helping girls develop invaluable life skills;
Whereas Gold Award Girl Scouts take on projects that have a measurable and sustainable impact on a community by assessing a need, designing a solution, completing a project, and inspiring others to sustain it; and
Whereas, as a member organization of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, Girl Scouts is part of an international sisterhood of 10,000,000 girls and young women in 152 countries and is committed to offering girls more opportunities to engage with communities worldwide, make meaningful global connections, and explore global citizenship: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes Girl Scouts of the United States of America for 111 years of providing girls with a safe, inclusive, all-girl space where they can hone their skills and develop leadership abilities;
(2)
congratulates all Girl Scouts who earned the Gold Award in 2022; and
(3)
encourages Girl Scouts of the United States of America to continue to champion the ambitions, nurture the creativity, and support the talents of future women leaders.
