118 HRES 1064 IH: Recognizing the role and responsibilities of Texas operating the Electric Reliability Council of Texas and condemning any action to federalize the Texas electricity markets.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-03-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1064
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 6, 2024
Mr. Weber of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Nehls
,
Mr. Fallon
,
Mr. Carter of Texas
,
Mr. Burgess
,
Mr. Self
,
Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas
, and
Mr. Sessions
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Recognizing the role and responsibilities of Texas operating the Electric Reliability Council of Texas and condemning any action to federalize the Texas electricity markets.
Whereas the Electric Reliability Council of Texas manages electric power to more than 26,000,000 Texans and represents roughly 90 percent of Texas’ electric power supply;
Whereas the Electric Reliability Council of Texas is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, rather falling under the jurisdiction of the Public Utility Commission of Texas and the Texas Legislature;
Whereas the Electric Reliability Council of Texas oversees more than 52,700 miles of transmission lines and 1,100 electric generating units, which in 2024 consisted of 44.3 percent natural gas, 25.2 percent wind, 9.8 percent coal, and 13.2 percent solar, with nuclear, hydropower, and other sources accounting for the remainder;
Whereas, counter to narratives that have been promulgated in Congress, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas currently has direct current connections with neighboring grids, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Public Utility Commission of Texas have approved the Southern Spirit Transmission project that would be capable of transmitting up to 2,000 megawatts of power from the Southeastern United States; and
Whereas legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives to force the Electric Reliability Council of Texas to connect to other major neighboring electric grids, imposing the will of the Federal Government on a system that is solely under the purview of the State: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the role and responsibilities the Electric Reliability Council of Texas as decided by the Public Utility Commission of Texas and the Texas Legislature, not the Federal Government; and
(2)
condemns any action by Congress or a Presidential administration to federalize Texas electricity markets.
