118 HRES 449 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives on the value of a tax agreement with Taiwan.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 449
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 25, 2023
Mr. Smith of Nebraska
(for himself,
Ms. DelBene
,
Ms. Malliotakis
, and
Ms. Chu
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and Means
, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives on the value of a tax agreement with Taiwan.
Whereas Taiwan is a democratic success story, an economic success story, a key part of global technology supply chains, and a close security partner of the United States;
Whereas the United States has pursued a robust unofficial partnership with Taiwan within the context of the current one-China policy of the United States;
Whereas the Taiwan Relations Act (
22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.
) has played an important role in promoting democracy and prosperity in Taiwan, peace and security in the Taiwan Strait, and close relations between the United States and Taiwan since 1979;
Whereas Taiwan is the eighth-largest trading partner of the United States, United States exports of goods and services to Taiwan support at least 188,000 American jobs, and Taiwan’s cumulative investment in the United States is at least $13,700,000,000;
Whereas the United States has ongoing economic dialogues with Taiwan that cover a range of trade, technology, and investment issues through the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Council led by the United States Trade Representative, the U.S.-Taiwan Economic Prosperity Partnership Dialogue led by the Department of State, and the Technology, Trade, and Investment Collaboration framework led by the Department of Commerce;
Whereas the Biden Administration announced the
U.S.-Taiwan Initiative on 21st Century Trade
on June 1, 2022;
Whereas the United States has income tax treaties with 66 countries, including the People’s Republic of China, and has agreements with other parties, including Taiwan, related to taxation, such as facilitating implementation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act;
Whereas Taiwan is the United States largest trading partner with whom we do not have an income tax treaty;
Whereas Taiwan has income tax agreements with 34 countries, including countries that have trade agreements with the United States and do not maintain diplomatic relations with Taiwan;
Whereas the United States signed a transportation income tax agreement with Taiwan in 1988, under the auspices of the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) and the Coordination Council for North American Affairs, which has since been renamed as the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO);
Whereas an income tax agreement between the United States and Taiwan could boost bilateral trade and investment by reducing double taxation and increasing economic efficiency and integration; and
Whereas the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei in its
2022 White Paper
called for the United States and Taiwan to continue exploring an income tax agreement: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the importance of Taiwan’s security and prosperity to the United States own security and prosperity;
(2)
encourages the President and the Senate to work with the House of Representatives to avoid or mitigate double taxation between the United States and Taiwan, consistent with United States commitments under the Taiwan Relations Act (
22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.
); and
(3)
encourages the President to proactively seek other ways to increase trade, technology, and investment ties between the United States and Taiwan.
