118 HRES 139 IH: Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (“NASCAR”).
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 139
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 17, 2023
Mr. Posey
(for himself,
Mr. Thompson of California
,
Mr. Bilirakis
,
Mr. Crawford
,
Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania
,
Mr. McHenry
,
Mr. Hudson
,
Mr. Carter of Georgia
,
Mr. Huizenga
,
Mr. Waltz
,
Ms. Wasserman Schultz
,
Mr. Jackson of North Carolina
,
Mr. Walberg
,
Mr. Mooney
, and
Mrs. Torres of California
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (
NASCAR
).
Whereas the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (
NASCAR
) is the sanctioning body for the premier form of motorsports in the United States;
Whereas NASCAR was incorporated in Daytona Beach, Florida, on February 21, 1948;
Whereas NASCAR was formed to organize and promote stock car racing in the United States;
Whereas NASCAR has become the premier motorsports innovator, universally regarded as one of the world’s most successful sports entertainment properties;
Whereas the NASCAR Cup Series features one of the longest seasons in sports, which extends across 10 months of the year, with large on-site audiences averaging over 100,000 spectators per weekend;
Whereas NASCAR has expanded throughout its history to become a global sport with series that race in more than 30 States, as well as Canada, Mexico, Europe, and Brazil;
Whereas, today, NASCAR sanctions more than 1,200 races annually and its races are broadcast in nearly every country around the world;
Whereas NASCAR strives to ensure that each of its race events are economically successful, relevant, entertaining, and safe;
Whereas NASCAR continually seeks to engage the core fan while igniting lifetime relationships with future fans;
Whereas NASCAR champions and rewards a winning, innovative culture through sport, which has inspired generations of Americans;
Whereas the NASCAR Foundation has had a positive impact on nearly 1.7 million children and donated more than $43 million to children in need;
Whereas February 21, 2023, marks the 75th anniversary of NASCAR; and
Whereas NASCAR’s 75th anniversary season will be a year-long celebration of the sport’s past, present, and future: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
celebrates the 75th anniversary of the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (
NASCAR
); and
(2)
commemorates NASCAR’s contributions to the United States economy and society throughout its history.
