118 HRES 498 IH: Recognizing June 28, 2023, as the 125th anniversary of the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine and commending its work to improve the health of the people of the United States.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 498
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 12, 2023
Mr. Graves of Missouri
(for himself,
Mr. Ryan
,
Ms. Lee of Nevada
, and
Mr. Balderson
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Education and the Workforce
, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Recognizing June 28, 2023, as the 125th anniversary of the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine and commending its work to improve the health of the people of the United States.
Whereas, in 1892, Dr. Andrew Taylor Still opened the first osteopathic medical school, the American School of Osteopathy, now known as A.T. Still University College of Osteopathic Medicine, in Kirksville, Missouri;
Whereas A.T. Still was a pioneer physician in recognizing the innate healing mechanisms present within all individuals, and discovered and expanded osteopathic medicine during an era of ineffective and harmful medical practices;
Whereas A.T. Still embodied a philosophy of service through his life as a physician advocate, a Civil War hospital steward, and a legislator;
Whereas, in 1898, the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM) was founded to support and assist the Nation’s osteopathic medical schools;
Whereas AACOM leads and advocates for the full continuum of osteopathic medical education (OME) to improve the health of the public;
Whereas AACOM represents all 40 colleges of osteopathic medicine at 64 teaching locations in 35 States, as well as osteopathic graduate medical education professionals and trainees at medical centers, hospitals, clinics, and health systems in the United States;
Whereas colleges of osteopathic medicine educate more than 35,000 future physicians, 25 percent of all American medical students, a number projected to rise to 30 percent by 2030;
Whereas osteopathic medicine is one of the fastest growing medical fields in the United States, with osteopathic physicians practicing in all specialty areas and medical practice settings;
Whereas there are more than 178,000 doctors of osteopathic medicine and osteopathic medical students in this country;
Whereas osteopathic medicine confers all the benefits of modern medicine to diagnose and treat disease and injury and emphasizes helping each person achieve a high level of wellness by focusing on health promotion and disease prevention;
Whereas osteopathic medical education emphasizes the interrelationship between the body’s structure and function and osteopathic medical students receive extensive training in both the neuromusculoskeletal system and in osteopathic manipulative treatment, the therapeutic application of manual pressure or force used to treat structural and functional issues in the bones, joints, tissues, and muscles of the body;
Whereas serving rural and underserved populations is a key pillar of AACOM and its member schools, and AACOM works to improve access to health care services, especially in rural and underserved areas of the United States;
Whereas 60 percent of osteopathic medical schools are located in health professional shortage areas;
Whereas 88 percent of osteopathic medical schools have a stated public commitment to rural health; and
Whereas AACOM supports its member institutions as they educate the future physician workforce, increase awareness of osteopathic medical education and osteopathic medicine, promote excellence in medical education, policy, research and service, and foster innovation and quality throughout medical education: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
recognizes the 125th anniversary of the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM);
(2)
commends AACOM for its work to improve the health of the people of the United States; and
(3)
recognizes osteopathic medical students and doctors of osteopathic medicine across the United States who devote their time and resources to increase access to health care services across the country and improve the lives of their patients.
