118 HRES 117 IH: Affirming that Social Security is one of the primary pillars of retirement support for millions of older Americans, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-02-09
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 117
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
February 9, 2023
Ms. Van Duyne
(for herself,
Mr. Burgess
,
Mr. Wittman
,
Mrs. Miller of West Virginia
,
Mr. Moolenaar
,
Ms. Greene of Georgia
,
Mr. Mills
,
Mrs. Lesko
,
Mr. McCormick
,
Mrs. McClain
,
Mr. Ellzey
,
Mr. Donalds
, and
Mr. Jackson of Texas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Ways and Means
RESOLUTION
Affirming that Social Security is one of the primary pillars of retirement support for millions of older Americans, and for other purposes.
Whereas the Social Security Administration was established by the Social Security Act of 1935;
Whereas Social Security pays cash benefits to more than 65 million people per month;
Whereas benefits are expected to be paid in full on a timely basis only until 2033;
Whereas, the reserves for Social Security’s Retirement and Survivors benefit program may become exhausted as soon as 2033, and benefits are expected to be paid out at only 77 percent;
Whereas, due to President Biden and his administration, inflation has risen 13.9 percent across the country since he has taken the oath of office;
Whereas sky rocketing costs are even worse as prices have outpaced seniors’ fixed incomes, causing this year's Social Security benefits to have the highest automatic increase in 40 years, further exacerbating the strain on the Social Security trust fund; and
Whereas it is the sense of the House of Representatives that its commitment to the United States is to save and strengthen Social Security: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives affirms that current retirees and those nearing retirement expect certain Social Security commitments to be made, as Social Security has been one of the primary pillars of retirement support for millions of older Americans for the past eight decades and it is not the policy of the House of Representatives to cut Social Security as part of debt ceiling negotiations.
