118 HRES 280 IH: Expressing support for the designation of November 22, 2023, as “Kimchi Day”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-04-06
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 280
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
April 6, 2023
Mrs. Kim of California
(for herself,
Mr. Kim of New Jersey
,
Mrs. Steel
,
Ms. Strickland
,
Ms. Meng
,
Mr. Gomez
,
Ms. Tokuda
,
Mr. Fitzpatrick
,
Ms. Chu
,
Mr. Issa
, and
Mr. Veasey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
RESOLUTION
Expressing support for the designation of November 22, 2023, as
Kimchi Day
.
Whereas kimchi is a traditional dish in Korean cuisine with a long, rich history that began over two millenniums ago during the period of the Three Kingdoms of Korea;
Whereas 2023 marks the 120th anniversary of the first Korean immigrants to arrive in the United States and the 70th anniversary of the United States-Republic of Korea alliance, and Korean Americans represent a vibrant, growing community in the United States whose members have gone on to become an indispensable part of the fabric of America and have made numerous contributions to science, law, business, art, and many other fields;
Whereas, in 2013, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization officially recognized the Korean traditional process of preparing kimchi,
Kimjang
, on its Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity;
Whereas kimchi has been widely acknowledged as a probiotic food item with well-established positive health benefits, serving as an excellent source of beta-carotene, calcium, potassium, dietary fiber, and vitamins A, B, C, and K, which can lower rates of heart disease, cancer, stroke, and diabetes;
Whereas the growing interest and popularity of kimchi as a dish in the United States, as evidenced by an increase in available kimchi-related food products, restaurant menu items, and interest from non-Korean consumers, represents a positive example of multicultural exchange; and
Whereas kimchi is celebrated in Korea, the land of its origin, each year through the designation of November 22 as
Kimchi Day
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives supports the designation of
Kimchi Day
.
