118 HRES 501 IH: Honoring the men and women of the Drug Enforcement Administration on the 50th anniversary of the agency.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-13
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 501
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
June 13, 2023
Mr. Rogers of Kentucky
(for himself and
Mr. Cartwright
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Honoring the men and women of the Drug Enforcement Administration on the 50th anniversary of the agency.
Whereas the Drug Enforcement Administration (referred to in this preamble as the
DEA
) was—
(1)
established by an Executive order on July 1, 1973; and
(2)
given the responsibility to coordinate the whole of the Federal Government’s approach related to the enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act;
Whereas the more than 10,000 men and women of the DEA, including special agents, intelligence research specialists, diversion investigators, program analysts, forensic chemists, attorneys, and administrative support staff, as well as more than 3,000 task force officers, representing hundreds of State and local law enforcement agencies across the country—
(1)
serve the United States with courage; and
(2)
are committed to serving and protecting the public safety, public health, and national security of the people of the United States from drug trafficking, drug misuse, and related violence;
Whereas, during the 50 years since the establishment of the DEA, the agency has targeted and dismantled transnational drug trafficking organizations and brought to justice the most dangerous and prolific drug trafficking criminals from around the world;
Whereas throughout the 50-year history of the DEA, the agency has continually adapted to evolving trends of major transnational drug cartels, targeting the organizations involved in the manufacturing, trafficking, and distribution of drugs, including fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, heroin, controlled prescription drugs, and other synthetic opioids;
Whereas the DEA has deployed enforcement and regulatory tools and strategies to address the threat posed by new synthetic opioid substances, which—
(1)
mimic the effects of known licit and illicit controlled substances, including fentanyl;
(2)
are largely responsible for driving the opioid epidemic that claimed the lives of more than 107,000 individuals in the United States in 2021; and
(3)
present the most significant threat to public health, public safety, and the national security of the United States;
Whereas with 93 foreign offices located in 69 countries, the DEA has the largest international presence of any Federal law enforcement agency, facilitating—
(1)
close collaboration with international partners around the world, through information-sharing, training, and technology; and
(2)
the provision of resources that have resulted in the disruption or dismantling of hundreds of transnational criminal organizations around the world;
Whereas throughout the history of the DEA, employees and members of the agency’s task forces have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty, including Emir Benitez, Gerald Sawyer, Leslie S. Grosso, Nickolas Fragos, Mary M. Keehan, Charles H. Mann, Anna Y. Mounger, Anna J. Pope, Martha D. Skeels, Mary P. Sullivan, Larry D. Wallace, Ralph N. Shaw, James T. Lunn, Octavio Gonzalez, Francis J. Miller, Robert C. Lightfoot, Thomas J. Devine, Larry N. Carwell, Marcellus Ward, Enrique S. Camarena, James A. Avant, Charles M. Bassing, Kevin L. Brosch, Susan M. Hoefler, William Ramos, Raymond J. Stastny, Arthur L. Cash, Terry W. McNett, George M. Montoya, Paul S. Seema, Everett E. Hatcher, Rickie C. Finley, Joseph T. Aversa, Wallie Howard, Jr., Eugene T. McCarthy, Alan H. Winn, George D. Althouse, Becky L. Dwojeski, Stephen J. Strehl, Richard E. Fass, Frank Fernandez, Jr., Jay W. Seale, Meredith Thompson, Juan C. Vars, Frank S. Wallace, Jr., Shelly D. Bland, Rona L. Chafey, Carrol June Fields, Carrie A. Lenz, Kenneth G. McCullough, Shaun E. Curl, Larry Steilen, Royce D. Tramel, Alice Faye Hall-Walton, Elton Lee Armstead, Terry Loftus, Donald C. Ware, Jay Balchunas, Thomas J. Byrne, Jr., Samuel Hicks, Forrest N. Leamon, Chad L. Michael, Michael E. Weston, James Terry Watson, Brent L. Hanger, Jorge R. DelRio, Stephen C. Arnold, Michael G. Garbo, and Jody W. Cash; and
Whereas many other DEA employees and task force officers have been wounded or injured in the line of duty, including 79 who have received the DEA Purple Heart Award: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
congratulates the Drug Enforcement Administration on the occasion of its 50th anniversary;
(2)
honors the heroic dedication of the employees of the agency who have paid the ultimate price and sacrificed their lives or who have been wounded or injured in the service of the United States; and
(3)
gives heartfelt thanks to all the men and women of the Drug Enforcement Administration for their past and continued efforts to protect the health and safety of the people of the United States from transnational criminal networks and drugs causing harm, violence, and death in our communities.
