118 HRES 1599 IH: Condemning the death threats against Representative Nancy Mace.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-11-26
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1599
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
November 26, 2024
Mrs. Luna
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Condemning the death threats against Representative Nancy Mace.
Whereas, on November 18, 2024, Representative Nancy Mace introduced a resolution prohibiting Members, officers, and employees of the House from using single-sex facilities other than those corresponding to their biological sex;
Whereas, after introduction of this resolution, Representative Nancy Mace has received multiple death threats;
Whereas one of the death threats came from a video posted on social media with the statement
This video goes out to Congresswoman Nancy Mace. Congresswoman Nancy Mace, I hope that one day I do find you in that woman’s bathroom and I grab your ratty looking f—ing hair and drag your face down to the floor while I repeatedly bash it in until the blood’s everywhere and you’re dead.
;
Whereas another death threat came from a phone call with a blocked number where it was stated that
We’re killing her. She’ll die today.
;
Whereas another death threat came from a post on social media with the statement
Prepare to die @repnancymace.
;
Whereas another death threat came from a phone call where it was stated
Nancy Mace doesn’t deserve to be alive.
;
Whereas another death threat came from a phone call where it was stated
Kill yourself motherf—er.
;
Whereas another death threat came from a phone call where it was stated
We know where you are, we’re going to kill you, Nancy.
; and
Whereas another death threat came from a phone call where it was stated
I never pray but I’m praying that Nancy Mace gets Stage 4 Ovarian Cancer and her children have to watch her suffer.
: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
strongly condemns the death threats being sent to Representative Nancy Mace; and
(2)
condemns all threats of violence.
