118 HRES 411 IH: Impeaching Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-05-17
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 411
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
May 17, 2023
Ms. Greene of Georgia
(for herself and
Mr. Gaetz
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article I
Rather than adhering to an oath he took to defend and secure our country and uphold the Constitution when he was sworn in as Secretary of Homeland Security, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with the laws of the United States, as follows:
Article II of the Constitution requires that the Executive branch, which today includes the Secretary of Homeland Security, ensure the laws passed by Congress and signed into law by the President are faithfully executed.
The Secure Fence Act of 2006 (
Public Law 109–367
) requires that the Secretary of Homeland Security
maintain operational control over the entire international land and maritime borders of the United States
.
In his willful admittance of border crossers, terrorists, human traffickers, drugs, and other contraband, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas has failed to maintain operational control of the border, thereby violating the Secure Fence Act of 2006.
To wit, since Mayorkas has headed the Department of Homeland Security, during which 0 miles of border wall have been added, there have been—
approximately 6 million illegal border crosser encounters at the southern border;
at least 1.4 million known
gotaways
;
at least 193 people on terrorist watchlists caught while attempting to cross the border at ports of entry;
at least 348,812 unaccompanied illegal children encountered at the southern border, with at least 85,000 of these children having gone missing; and
at least 1,424 deaths of illegals at the southern border.
In fiscal year 2021, Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) seized approximately 11.2 thousand pounds of fentanyl. In fiscal year 2022, CBP seized a record of approximately 14.7 thousand pounds of fentanyl. In fiscal year 2023, thus far, CBP has seized almost 14 thousand pounds of fentanyl. Over 70,000 Americans died from fentanyl in fiscal year 2022. Fentanyl is now the number one killer of Americans between the ages of 18 and 45.
The Constitution also requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to observe the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.
). This law requires Homeland Security to detain inadmissible aliens arriving in the United States or illegal aliens presently in the United States. Instead, the Department of Homeland Security, under Secretary Mayorkas, has practiced catch and release policies, whereby illegals are detained, but then released, without any mechanism to ensure they show up to court for processing.
By terminating contracts for border wall construction, ending the Migrant Protection Protocols (Remain in Mexico), and being complicit in ending Title 42, Mayorkas has made it easier for illegal people and drugs to enter the United States, endangering American citizens, and has made it harder for CBP to expel such threats.
Article II
Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, in his inability to enforce the law, has engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with his duties as a civil officer of the United States.
Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, in his failure to uphold the oath he took, has, by his actions, lost the trust of citizens of the United States to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.
Wherefore, Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
