118 HRES 1421 IH: Supporting the goals of “Blood Cancer Awareness Month”.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-09-03
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1421
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 3, 2024
Mr. Fong
(for himself,
Mr. Mullin
,
Ms. Barragán
, and
Mr. Costa
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
RESOLUTION
Supporting the goals of
Blood Cancer Awareness Month
.
Whereas blood cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma, myeloma, myelodysplastic syndromes, and myeloproliferative neoplasms;
Whereas blood cancer currently afflicts more than 1,600,000 people in the United States, with a person being diagnosed every 3 minutes;
Whereas blood cancer is projected to cause the deaths of more than 57,300 people in the United States this year;
Whereas steady support for blood cancer research has produced breakthrough treatment advances;
Whereas blood cancer research has produced promising results for treatments like immunotherapy, targeted therapy, and minimal residual disease testing, among others;
Whereas Congress has provided strong support for blood cancer research that has contributed to important treatment advances and yielded significant improvements in patient survival;
Whereas Congress must continue to support blood cancer research to improve the early diagnosis and effective treatment of blood cancer;
Whereas September is
Blood Cancer Awareness Month
; and
Whereas Blood Cancer Awareness Month is a time to—
(1)
assess the challenges and opportunities of blood cancer research;
(2)
support efforts to increase awareness of, and education about, blood cancer; and
(3)
recognize the need for additional research into early diagnosis, screening, and treatment for blood cancer: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
supports the goals of
Blood Cancer Awareness Month
; and
(2)
encourages people in the United States to—
(A)
educate themselves about blood cancer;
(B)
advocate for blood cancer research, education, and care; and
(C)
offer support to individuals living with blood cancer and their families.
