118 HRES 253 IH: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Vice President Kamala Harris should be removed from her position as the head of the Biden administration’s strategy to address the root causes of migration.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-24
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 253
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 24, 2023
Mr. Jackson of Texas
(for himself,
Mr. Babin
,
Mr. Mike Garcia of California
,
Mr. Meuser
, and
Mr. Weber of Texas
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
, and in addition to the Committees on
Homeland Security
,
Ways and Means
, and
Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Vice President Kamala Harris should be removed from her position as the head of the Biden administration’s strategy to address the root causes of migration.
Whereas, on March 24, 2021, Vice President Kamala Harris was named
Border Czar
in charge of leading efforts to stem migration across the United States-Mexico border;
Whereas Vice President Harris has visited the southern border once since President Biden appointed her to lead efforts to stem migration across the United States-Mexico border;
Whereas border security is national security and the ongoing influx of migrants poses a significant threat to the public health and safety of our communities;
Whereas, under the Biden administration, a historic number of illegal immigrants, violent criminals, and deadly drugs have flooded into our communities through the southern border;
Whereas over 4,500,000 migrants have illegally crossed our southern border since January 2021;
Whereas U.S. Customs and Border Protection seized over 14,700 pounds of illicit fentanyl in fiscal year 2022, enough to kill over 3,000,000,000 people;
Whereas, in the first 5 months of fiscal year 2023, 69 people whose names appear on the terrorist watchlist were encountered at the southern border, totaling more than fiscal years 2017 through 2021 combined;
Whereas the Biden administration has allowed for mass migration to the United States by allowing politics to cloud its judgment when assessing policies;
Whereas our southern border is less safe now than it ever has been; and
Whereas U.S. Customs and Border Protection is overwhelmed and lacks resources needed due to Vice President Harris’s refusal to address the issues: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives urges the Biden administration to—
(1)
remove Vice President Kamala Harris as the head of any executive branch task force or strategy relating to immigration;
(2)
appoint an experienced and competent leader to replace Vice President Kamala Harris as the head of the Biden administration’s strategy to address the root causes of migration;
(3)
recognize that border security is national security;
(4)
immediately provide U.S. Customs and Border Protection with the adequate support and resources to do their job effectively and adequately;
(5)
immediately reinistate the Migrant Protection Protocols;
(6)
take action to protect American communities from fentanyl; and
(7)
stop allowing politics in Washington to cloud their judgment regarding policies implemented at the southern border.
