118 HRES 772 IH: Censuring Representative Rashida Tlaib.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-10-25
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 772
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 11, 2023
Mr. Bergman
(for himself,
Mr. Fry
,
Mr. Luttrell
,
Mr. Collins
,
Ms. Boebert
,
Mrs. Miller-Meeks
,
Mr. Norman
, and
Ms. Greene of Georgia
) submitted the following resolution
October 25, 2023
Referred to the
Committee on Ethics
, and in addition to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs
, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
RESOLUTION
Censuring Representative Rashida Tlaib.
Whereas Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib has a long history of making anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli remarks;
Whereas, in May of 2019, Congresswoman Tlaib was a guest on the Skullduggery podcast and said
There's a kind of a calming feeling, I always tell folks, when I think of the Holocaust and the tragedy of the Holocaust…
;
Whereas, in September of 2022, Congresswoman Tlaib participated in a virtual event hosted by the Americans for Justice in Palestine Action and said,
I want you all to know that among progressives, it becomes clear that you cannot claim to hold progressive values yet back Israel's apartheid government,
;
Whereas, on May 9, 2023, the CEO and National Director of the Anti-Defamation League wrote a letter to Speaker McCarthy and Minority Leader Jeffries warning them of an event Congresswoman Tlaib was planning on hosting in the United States Capitol entitled,
Nakba 75 & the Palestinian People.
The letter goes on to say,
In previous years, many Nakba Day events have devolved into hateful, anti-Israel and even antisemitic language. Just last year, in May 2022, speakers at Nakba Day events across the country variously referred to Israelis as the “stench of White European invaders,” called for “death to Israel” and stated that “everyone should fight within his means. They will fight with stones. Others will fight with guns. Others will fight with planes, drones. And others will fight with rockets.
;
Whereas, on July 18, 2023, Congresswoman Tlaib voted against adopting a resolution Expressing the sense of Congress supporting the State of Israel; and
Whereas, on October 8, 2023, one day after a series of coordinated attacks on Israel perpetrated by Hamas terrorists and leaving more Jews dead than any single day since the Holocaust, Congresswoman Tlaib issued a statement calling Israel an apartheid state and insinuating the United States should end its support for the State of Israel: Now, therefore, be it
That the House of Representatives—
(1)
censures Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib;
(2)
stands with the State of Israel and rejects anti-semitism in all its forms; and
(3)
renounces fringe beliefs that the State of Israel is an apartheid State.
