118 HRES 207 IH: Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit Members, officers, and employees of the House from serving on the board of directors of any entity which receives funding from, or is affiliated with or owned or controlled by, the United Front Work Department of the Chinese Communist Party, any other element of the Chinese Communist Party, or any foreign adversary, and for other purposes.
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-03-08
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. RES. 207
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 8, 2023
Mr. Luttrell
(for himself,
Mr. Hern
,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
,
Mrs. Miller of Illinois
,
Mrs. Boebert
,
Mr. Gooden of Texas
, and
Mr. Ellzey
) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules
RESOLUTION
Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit Members, officers, and employees of the House from serving on the board of directors of any entity which receives funding from, or is affiliated with or owned or controlled by, the United Front Work Department of the Chinese Communist Party, any other element of the Chinese Communist Party, or any foreign adversary, and for other purposes.
1.
Prohibiting service on boards affiliated with Chinese Communist Party or foreign adversaries
Clause 2 of rule XXV of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended—
(1)
by striking
or
at the end of paragraph (d);
(2)
by striking the period at the end of paragraph (e) and inserting
; or
; and
(3)
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
(f)
serve—
(1)
on the board of directors of any entity which receives funding from, or is affiliated with or owned or controlled by, the United Front Work Department of the Chinese Communist Party, any other element of the Chinese Communist Party, or any government or person determined by the Secretary of State to be a foreign adversary under section 7.4 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations as of March 1, 2023; or
(2)
on any board of directors whose members include any member or agent of the United Front Work Department of the Chinese Communist Party, any other element of the Chinese Communist Party, or any government or person determined by the Secretary of State to be a foreign adversary under section 7.4 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations as of March 1, 2023.
.
