118 HRES 1379 IH: Impeaching Kamala Devi Harris, Vice President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
U.S. House of Representatives
2024-07-23
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.
IV
118th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. RES. 1379
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 23, 2024
Mr. Ogles
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Impeaching Kamala Devi Harris, Vice President of the United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
That Kamala Devi Harris, Vice President of the United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors and that the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:
Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of the United States of America, against Kamala Devi Harris, Vice President of the United States, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against her for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article I: Willful refusal to uphold the immigration laws
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and Executive Branch officials, including the Vice President,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In her conduct of the Office of Vice President of the United States, Kamala Devi Harris, in violation of her constitutional oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic, to bear truth faith and allegiance to the same, and to well and faithfully discharge the duties of her Office, has willfully and systemically refused to uphold Federal immigration laws, in that:
In her conduct of the Office of Vice President of the United States, Kamala Devi Harris, in violation of her constitutional oath to faithfully execute the Office of Vice President of the United States and, to the best of her ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of her constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, has willfully prevented, obstructed, and impeded the administration of justice, in that:
Kamala Devi Harris has demonstrated extraordinary incompetence in the execution of her duties and responsibilities, a stark refusal to uphold the existing immigration laws, and a palpable indifference to people of the United States suffering as a result of the ongoing southern border crisis in the United States.
Vice President Harris has consistently refused to visit the southern border to evaluate this ongoing national crisis, aside from a single trip hundreds of miles away from the epicenter of the migrant crisis.
Women and girls in the United States have paid a disproportionate price for the ongoing border crisis, tragically extenuated by the inaction of border czar Kamala Devi Harris. In August 2023, Rachel Morin, a mother of 5, was raped and killed by an illegal alien. In September 2023, an illegal alien attacked a woman and her 9-year-old daughter in Los Angeles. On May 14, 2024, an illegal alien from Turkey raped a 15-year-old New York girl after threatening to beat her with a pipe. In February 2024, a 22-year-old nursing student Laken Riley was killed by an illegal alien. In June 2024, a 13-year-old New York girl was raped in broad daylight inside a Queens park by an illegal alien; Jocelyn Nungaray, a 12-year-old Houston girl, was killed by 2 illegal aliens and later found dead after being strangled and sexually assaulted; 5 illegal aliens were charged with kidnapping a 14-year-old Indiana girl.
During her tenure as the designated border czar, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency
encountered
nearly 302,000 illegal aliens at the southwest border in December 2023, the highest monthly total ever recorded and representing 4 consecutive months of over 240,000 illegal alien
encounters
.
According to the U.S. Customs and Border data, in the first 5 months of fiscal year 2023, 106,000 pounds of drugs were seized at the southwest border, including 11,000 pounds of fentanyl. The first 5 months of fiscal year 2023 saw a 179.3-percent increase in fentanyl seizures over the same time frame in fiscal year 2022.
According to Drug Enforcement Agency statistics, over 50,600,000 fentanyl pills were seized in 2022, including over 10,800 pounds of fentanyl powder; these fentanyl seizures are enough to kill over 379,000,000 people. Recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention indicate that 107,735 individuals in the United States died of a drug overdose in the 12-month period ending July 2022.
According to the U.S. Customs and Border, migrant deaths at the southwest border of the United States totaled 856 in fiscal year 2022, the deadliest year on record.
A May 2017 report from Doctors Without Borders indicated that out of the number of women surveyed, nearly one-third had been sexually assaulted as they approached the southern border.
In all of this, Kamala Devi Harris willfully and systematically refused to uphold the immigration laws, failed to control the border to the detriment of national security, compromised public safety, and violated the rule of law, to the manifest injury of the people of the United States.
Wherefore Vice President Kamala Devi Harris, by such conduct, has demonstrated that she will remain a threat to national security and the Constitution if allowed to remain in Office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law. Kamala Devi Harris thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
Article II: Breach of public trust
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment
and Executive Branch officials, including the Vice President,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors
. In her conduct while Vice President of the United States, Kamala Devi Harris, in violation of her oath to well and faithfully discharge the duties of her Office, has breached the public trust, in that:
Kamala Devi Harris has knowingly misled the people of the United States and the Congress of the United States, principally to obfuscate the physical and cognitive well-being of the President of the United States, Joe Biden. Kamala Devi Harris engaged in this scheme of course of conduct through the following means:
(1)
Kamala Devi Harris, despite maintaining a clear moral obligation to do so, failed to invoke the procedure stipulated in the 25th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, particularly after President Joe Biden’s announcement on Sunday July 21, 2024, that he would no longer be seeking the Democrat nomination for President of the United States for the 2024 election.
(2)
Kamala Devi Harris has refused to answer any questions regarding President Joe Biden’s tragic cognitive decline, particularly when she began to notice such decline and for how long she knew the President was no longer capable of discharging the duties of his office.
In all of this, Kamala Devi Harris breached the public trust in failing basic expectations of transparency and demonstrating a severe lack of integrity.
Wherefore Kamala Devi Harris, by such conduct, has demonstrated that she will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in Office, and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with her duties and the rule of law. Kamala Devi Harris thus warrants impeachment and trial, removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
