1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Improving Regulatory Transparency for New Medical Therapies Act
.
2.
Scheduling of substances included in new FDA-approved drugs
Section 201 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 811
) is amended by inserting after
subsection (h) the following:
(i)
Within 45 days of receiving a recommendation from the Secretary to add a drug or substance that has
never been marketed in the United States to a schedule under this title,
the Attorney General shall, without regard to the findings required by
subsection (a) of this section or section 202(b), issue an interim final
rule, under the exception for good cause described in subparagraph (B) of
section 553(b)
of title 5, United States Code, placing the drug or
substance into the schedule recommended by the Secretary. The interim
final rule shall be made immediately effective under section 553(d)(3) of
title 5, United States Code.
.
3.
Enhancing new drug development
Section 302 of the Controlled Substances Act (
21 U.S.C. 822
) is amended by inserting after
subsection (g) the following:
(h)
(1)
A person who submits an application for registration to manufacture or distribute a controlled
substance in accordance with this section may indicate on the registration
application that the substance will be used only in connection with
clinical trials of a drug in accordance with section 505(i) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(2)
When an application for registration to manufacture or distribute a controlled substance includes
an indication that the controlled substance will be used only in
connection with clinical trials of a drug in accordance with section
505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Attorney General
shall—
(A)
make a final decision on the application for registration within 180 days; or
(B)
provide notice to the applicant in writing of—
(i)
the outstanding issues that must be resolved in order to reach a final decision on the application;
and
(ii)
the estimated date on which a final decision on the application will be made.
.
