1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Protecting Insurance Coverage for Sick Americans Act of 2014
.
2.
Prohibition on rescissions
(a)
Group market
Subpart 1 of part A of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
2703.
Prohibition on rescissions
A group health plan and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage shall
not rescind such plan or coverage with respect to an enrollee once the
enrollee is covered under such plan or coverage involved, except that this
section shall not apply to a covered individual who has performed an act
or practice that constitutes fraud or makes an intentional
misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan
or coverage. Such plan or coverage may not be cancelled except with prior
notice to the enrollee, and only as permitted under section 2712(b).
.
(b)
Individual market
Subpart 1 of part B of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (
42 U.S.C. 300gg–41 et seq.
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
2747.
Prohibition on rescissions
The provisions of section 2703 shall apply to health insurance coverage offered to individuals by a
health insurance issuer in the individual market in the same manner as it
applies to health insurance coverage offered by a health insurance issuer
in the group market.
.
(c)
Effective date contingent on repeal of PPACA
(1)
In general
Subsections (a) and (b) and the amendments made by such subsections shall take effect upon the
enactment of PPACA repeal legislation described in paragraph (2) and such
subsections and amendments shall have no force or effect if such PPACA
repeal legislation is not enacted.
(2)
PPACA repeal legislation described
For purposes of paragraph (1), PPACA repeal legislation described in this paragraph is legislation
that—
(A)
repeals
Public Law 111–148
, and restores or revives the provisions of law amended or repealed,
respectively, by such Act as if such Act had not been enacted and without
further amendment to such provisions of law; and
(B)
repeals title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (
Public Law 111–152
), and restores or revives the provisions of law
amended or repealed, respectively, by such title or subtitle,
respectively, as if such title and subtitle had not been enacted and
without further amendment to such provisions of law.
