1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Human Trafficking Detection Act of 2014
.
2.
Definitions
In this Act:
(1)
Department
The term
Department
means the Department of Homeland Security.
(2)
Human trafficking
The term
human trafficking
means an act or practice described in paragraph (9) or (10) of section 103 of the Trafficking
Victims Protection Act of 2000 (
22 U.S.C. 7102
).
(3)
Secretary
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
3.
Training for Department personnel to identify human trafficking
(a)
In General
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall implement a
program to—
(1)
train and periodically retrain relevant Transportation Security Administration, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, and other Department personnel that the Secretary
considers appropriate, how to effectively deter, detect, and disrupt human
trafficking, and, where appropriate, interdict a suspected perpetrator of
human trafficking, during the course of their primary roles and
responsibilities; and
(2)
ensure that the personnel referred to in paragraph (1) regularly receive current information on
matters related to the detection of human trafficking, including
information that becomes available outside of the Department’s initial or
periodic retraining schedule, to the extent relevant to their official
duties and consistent with applicable information and privacy laws.
(b)
Training described
The training referred to in subsection (a) may be conducted through in-class or virtual learning
capabilities, and shall include—
(1)
methods for identifying suspected victims of human trafficking and, where appropriate, perpetrators
of human trafficking;
(2)
for appropriate personnel, methods to approach a suspected victim of human trafficking, where
appropriate, in a manner that is sensitive to the suspected victim and is
not likely to alert a suspected perpetrator of human trafficking;
(3)
training that is most appropriate for a particular location or environment in which the personnel
receiving such training perform their official duties;
(4)
other topics determined by the Secretary to be appropriate; and
(5)
a post-training evaluation for personnel receiving the training.
(c)
Training curriculum review
The Secretary shall annually reassess the training program established under subsection (a) to
ensure it is consistent with current techniques, patterns, and trends
associated with human trafficking.
4.
Certification and report to Congress
(a)
Certification
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall certify to
the appropriate congressional committees that all personnel referred to in
section 3(a) have successfully completed the training required under that
section.
(b)
Report to Congress
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the
Secretary shall report to the appropriate congressional committees the
overall effectiveness of the program required by this Act, the number of
cases reported by Department personnel in which human trafficking was
suspected and, of those cases, the number of cases that were confirmed
cases of such trafficking.
5.
Assistance to non-Federal entities
The Secretary may provide training curricula to any State, local, or tribal government or private
organization to assist such entity in establishing its program of training
to identify human trafficking, upon request from such entity.
