1.
Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1)
Given the
importance of the Internet to the global economy, it is essential that the
Internet remain stable, secure, and free from government control.
(2)
The world deserves
the access to knowledge, services, commerce, and communication, the
accompanying benefits to economic development, education, and health care, and
the informed discussion that is the bedrock of democratic self-government that
the Internet provides.
(3)
The structure of Internet governance has
profound implications for competition and trade, democratization, free
expression, and access to information.
(4)
Countries have obligations to protect human
rights, whether exercised online or offline.
(5)
The ability to innovate, develop technical
capacity, grasp economic opportunities, and promote freedom of expression
online is best realized in cooperation with all stakeholders.
(6)
Proposals have been, and will likely
continue to be, put forward at international regulatory bodies that would
fundamentally alter the governance and operation of the Internet.
(7)
The proposals would attempt to justify
increased government control over the Internet and could undermine the current
multistakeholder model that has enabled the Internet to flourish and under
which the private sector, civil society, academia, and individual users play an
important role in charting its direction.
(8)
The proposals would diminish the freedom of
expression on the Internet in favor of government control over content.
(9)
The position of the United States
Government has been and is to advocate for the flow of information free from
government control.
(10)
This Administration and past
Administrations have made a strong commitment to the multistakeholder model of
Internet governance and the promotion of the global benefits of the
Internet.
2.
Policy regarding
Internet governance
It is the
policy of the United States to preserve and advance the successful
multistakeholder model that governs the Internet.
