1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
EB-5 Regional Center Extension Act of 2014
.
2.
Removal of per country numerical caps on employment visas
Section 202(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1152
) is amended by striking
subsections (a) and (b) of section 203
and inserting
subsection (a) of section 203
.
3.
Regional center program made permanent
Section 203(b)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(5)
) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
(E)
Regional center program
(i)
Set aside
Not less than 3,000 of the visas made available under this paragraph in each fiscal year shall be
reserved for qualified immigrants for a program to implement the
provisions of this paragraph.
(ii)
In general
The program referred to in clause (i) shall involve a regional center in the United States,
designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security on the basis of a general
proposal, for the promotion of economic growth, including increased export
sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, or increased domestic
capital investment. A regional center shall have jurisdiction over a
limited geographic area, which shall be described in the proposal and
consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined
economic zones. The establishment of a regional center may be based on
general predictions, contained in the proposal, concerning the kinds of
commercial enterprises that will receive capital from aliens, the jobs
that will be created directly or indirectly as a result of such capital
investments, and the other positive economic effects such capital
investments will have.
(iii)
Rule for determining compliance with job creation requirements
For purposes of determining compliance with subparagraph (A)(ii), and notwithstanding the
requirements of 8 CFR 204.6, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
permit aliens admitted under the program described in this subparagraph to
establish reasonable methodologies for determining the number of jobs
created by the program, including such jobs which are estimated to have
been created indirectly through revenues generated from increased exports,
improved regional productivity, job creation, or increased domestic
capital investment resulting from the program.
.
4.
Priority consideration for regional center applicants
Section 204(a)(1)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(H)
) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
In processing petitions under this subparagraph, the Secretary of Homeland Security may give
priority to petitions filed by aliens seeking admission under the program
described in section 203(b)(5)(E). Notwithstanding section 203(e),
immigrant visas made available under section 203(b)(5) may be issued to
such aliens in an order that takes into account any priority accorded
under the preceding sentence.
.
5.
Conforming amendment
Section 610 of
Public Law 102–395
(
8 U.S.C. 1153
note) is hereby repealed.
