1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Furthering Accountability and Individual Rights within the Military Act of 2014
or the
Fair Military Act
.
2.
Appraisals of members of the Armed Forces regarding compliance with sexual assault prevention and
response programs
The Secretary of a military department shall each ensure that the written performance appraisals of
each member of the Armed Forces (whether an officer or enlisted member)
under the jurisdiction of that Secretary include an assessment of the
extent to which the member supports the sexual assault prevention and
response program of the Armed Force concerned.
3.
Performance appraisals of commanding officers regarding command climate
The Secretary of a military department shall each ensure that the performance appraisals of each
commanding officer under the jurisdiction of that Secretary indicate the
extent to which the commanding officer has or has not established a
command climate in which—
(1)
allegations of sexual assault are properly managed and fairly evaluated; and
(2)
a victim can report criminal activity, including sexual assault, without fear of retaliation,
including ostracism and group pressure from other members of the command.
4.
Modification of Military Rules of Evidence relating to admissibility of general military character
toward probability of innocence
(a)
Modification required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, Rule 404(a) of the Military
Rules of Evidence shall be modified to clarify that, except as provided by
subsection (b), the general military character of an accused is not
admissible for the purpose of showing the probability of innocence of the
accused.
(b)
Exception
Evidence of a trait of the military character of an accused may be offered in evidence by the
accused when that trait is relevant to an element of an offense for which
the accused has been charged.
5.
Applicability of sexual assault prevention and response and related military justice enhancements
to military service academies
(a)
Military service academies
The Secretary of the military department concerned shall ensure that the provisions of title XVII
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law
113–66) and this Act apply to the United States Military Academy, the
Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy in the same manner and to the
same extent as such title and this Act apply to an Armed Force under the
jurisdiction of that Secretary.
(b)
Coast guard academy
The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall ensure that the
provisions of title XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
) and this Act apply to the Coast Guard
Academy in the same manner and to the same extent as such title and this
Act apply to the Coast Guard.
6.
Judicial proceedings panel assessment of use of mental health records by defense during preliminary
hearing and court-martial proceedings
(a)
Additional assessments
The independent panel established by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (a)(2) of section
576 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public
Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 1758), known as the
judicial proceedings panel
, shall conduct assessments of—
(1)
the use of mental health records by the defense during preliminary hearing and court-martial
proceedings; and
(2)
the use of these records in similar civilian proceedings to determine whether any significant
discrepancies exist between the two legal systems.
(b)
Submission of results
The judicial proceedings panel shall include the results of the assessments required by subsection
(a) in the remaining reports required by subsection (c)(2)(B) of section
576 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013.
7.
Comptroller General report on Department of Defense actions regarding sexual assault prevention and
response in the Armed Forces
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a report describing the
status of the implementation of the sexual assault provisions contained in
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law
112–181), the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013
(
Public Law 112–239
), and the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014 (
Public Law 113–66
) and the sexual assault prevention
initiatives announced in memoranda by the Secretary of Defense on May 6,
2013, and August 14, 2013.
