1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
Fair and Accountable IHS Recompense Act of 2014
or the
FAIR Act
.
2.
Deficiency Reports Available to the Public
Section 106(c) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 450j–1(c)
)
is amended by inserting
On and after May 1 of each year, the report prepared under this subsection for submission by May 15
of that year shall be available to the public and shall not be subject to
an exemption under
section 552(b)
of title 5, United States Code.
before
Such report shall include
.
3.
Presumption of accuracy of deficiency report amounts
Section 110 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 450m–1
) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
(f)
Presumption of accuracy of deficiency report amounts
In any civil action, claim, or related appeal brought under this section, it shall be presumed, in
the absence of fraud or mathematical error, that the deficiency amounts
reported to Congress under section 106(c)(2) accurately reflect the
minimum damages due to any Indian tribe or tribal organization upon whose
behalf the civil action, claim, or appeal was filed.
(g)
Attorney fees
None of the funds awarded in a civil action, claim, or related appeal brought under this section
shall be allocated for or used to pay attorney fees unless—
(1)
all attorney fees for services directly associated with the civil action, claim, or related appeal,
are—
(A)
documented; and
(B)
charged at reasonable hourly rates; and
(2)
the documentation required under paragraph (1)(A) has been made available to—
(A)
the Natural Resources Committee of the House of Representatives;
(B)
the Indian Affairs Committee of the Senate; and
(C)
the public.
(h)
Liability; limitation
Any Indian tribe or tribal organization upon whose behalf a civil action, claim, or related appeal
was filed under this section shall not be held liable for paying any
attorney fees for services directly associated with the civil action,
claim, or related appeal if the attorney fees do not meet the standards
under subsection (g).
.
