1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
American Space Technology for Exploring Resource Opportunities In Deep Space Act
or the
ASTEROIDS Act
.
2.
Title 51 amendment
(a)
In general
Subtitle V of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new
chapter:
513
Asteroid resource exploration and utilization
Sec.
51301. Commercialization of asteroid resource exploration and utilization in outer space.
51302. Legal framework.
51303. Definitions.
51301.
Commercialization of asteroid resource exploration and utilization in outer space
The President, through the Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, and other
appropriate Federal agencies, shall—
(1)
facilitate the commercial exploration and utilization of asteroid resources to meet national needs;
(2)
discourage government barriers to the development of economically viable, safe, and stable
industries for the exploration and utilization of asteroid resources in
outer space in manners consistent with the existing international
obligations of the United States;
(3)
promote the right of United States commercial entities to explore and utilize resources from
asteroids in outer space, in accordance with the existing international
obligations of the United States, free from harmful interference, and to
transfer or sell such resources; and
(4)
develop the frameworks necessary to meet the international obligations of the United States.
51302.
Legal framework
(a)
Property rights
Any resources obtained in outer space from an asteroid are the property of the entity that obtained
such resources, which shall be entitled to all property rights thereto,
consistent with applicable provisions of Federal law.
(b)
Freedom from harmful interference
As between any entities over which the United States can exercise jurisdiction, any assertion of
superior right to execute specific commercial asteroid resource
utilization activities in outer space shall prevail if it is found to be
first in time, derived upon a reasonable basis, and in accordance with all
existing international obligations of the United States.
(c)
Safety of operations
A United States commercial asteroid resource utilization entity shall avoid harmful interference to
other spacecraft.
(d)
Relief from harmful interference
A United States commercial asteroid resource utilization entity may bring an action for appropriate
legal or equitable relief, or both, under this chapter for any action, by
another private entity, compromising the right to conduct its operations
free of harmful interference.
(e)
Exclusive jurisdiction
The district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction of an action under this
chapter without regard to the amount in controversy.
51303.
Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter:
(1)
State
The term
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of
the United States.
(2)
United states commercial asteroid resource utilization entity
The term
United States commercial asteroid resource utilization entity
means a person or company providing asteroid exploration or utilization services, the control of
which is held by persons other than a Federal, State, local, or foreign
government, that is—
(A)
duly organized under the laws of a State;
(B)
subject to the subject matter and personal jurisdiction of the courts of the United States; or
(C)
a foreign entity that has voluntarily submitted to the subject matter and personal jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States.
.
(b)
Clerical amendment
The table of chapters for title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end of the
items for subtitle V the following:
513.
Asteroid resource exploration and utilization
51301
.
