1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
ESA Improvement Act of 2014
.
2.
Endangered and threatened species State Protective Actions
Section 4(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (
16 U.S.C. 1533(c)
) is amended—
(1)
in paragraph (1), in the first sentence, by striking
The Secretary shall
and inserting
Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall
; and
(2)
by adding at the end the following:
(3)
State Protective Action
(A)
Exclusion from lists
The Secretary shall not include in a list under this subsection any population of a species in a
State if the Secretary has approved a State Protective Action for such
population in accordance with this paragraph.
(B)
Publication of notice
Not later than 90 days before proposing to add a species to a list under this subsection, the
Secretary shall notify each State in which a population of the species
occurs of the opportunity to submit to the Secretary a proposed State
Protective Action for the species in that State, including specification
of the criteria for approval of such an action under this paragraph.
(C)
Submission by state
Each State notified under subparagraph (B), or group of such States, may submit to the Secretary a
proposed State Protective Action for the species in such State or States
within the period specified by the Secretary for the submission of public
comment regarding the inclusion of the species in the list.
(D)
Guidance to states
During preparation of a proposed State Protective Action under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall provide guidance to the State regarding such preparation.
(E)
Approval or disapproval; resubmission
The Secretary shall—
(i)
approve or disapprove a proposed State Protective Action by not later than 45 days after the date
it is submitted;
(ii)
approve such an action if the Secretary determines that it meets the criteria specified for
approval in the notification under subparagraph (B);
(iii)
upon disapproving such an action—
(I)
provide the written comments explaining specifically why the action was not approved;
(II)
allow the proposed action to be resubmitted at any time before the end of the 45-day period
beginning on the date the Secretary provides such comments; and
(III)
by not later than 30 days after the end of such period, issue a final decision regarding the
proposed action.
(F)
Limitation on final listing
The Secretary may not add a population of a species to a list before the date the Secretary has
made a final determination regarding approval of each State Protective
Action for such population that has been submitted in accordance with this
paragraph.
(G)
Qualification for grants
For purposes of subsection (d), a State Protective Action approved by the Secretary under this
paragraph shall be treated as a cooperative agreement entered into
pursuant to this subsection.
(H)
Review of plans
Every 5 years after approving a State Protective Action, the Secretary shall review the
implementation and effectiveness of the action, and if necessary provide
guidance on improvements or revisions that are required to maintain the
Secretary’s approval of the action.
(I)
Revocation of Approval
The Secretary may revoke approval of a State Protective Action for a population and propose adding
such species to a list under this subsection if at any time after
completion of the first review under subparagraph (H) the Secretary
determines that—
(i)
the State has failed to implement the action; or
(ii)
the action has failed to make measurable progress toward achieving the recovery criteria for the
population.
(J)
Termination
The Secretary may terminate the effectiveness of a State Protective Action approved under this
paragraph, including review regarding the action under subparagraph (H),
if the Secretary determines that recovery criteria for the population have
been achieved.
.
