1.
Short title
This Act may be cited as the
CHP Support Act
.
2.
CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program
Section 375 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (
42 U.S.C. 6345
) is amended to read as follows:
375.
CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program
(a)
Renaming
(1)
In general
The Clean Energy Application Centers of the Department of Energy are redesignated as the CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program (referred to in this section as the
Program
).
(2)
Program description
The Program shall consist of—
(A)
the 7 regional CHP Technical Assistance Partnerships in existence on the date of enactment of the
CHP Support Act
;
(B)
such other regional CHP Technical Assistance Partnerships as the Secretary may establish; and
(C)
any supporting technical activities under the Technical Partnership Program of the Advanced Manufacturing Office.
(3)
References
Any reference in any law, rule, regulation, or publication to a Combined Heat and Power Application Center or a Clean Energy Application Center shall be deemed to be a reference to the Program.
(b)
CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program
(1)
In general
The Program shall—
(A)
operate programs to encourage deployment of combined heat and power (referred to in this subsection as
CHP
) technologies by providing education and outreach to—
(i)
building, industrial, and electric and natural gas utility professionals;
(ii)
State and local policymakers; and
(iii)
other individuals and organizations with an interest in efficient energy use, local or opportunity fuel use, resiliency, or energy security, microgrids and district energy; and
(B)
provide project specific support to building and industrial professionals through economic and engineering assessments and advisory activities.
(2)
Funding for certain activities
(A)
In general
The Program shall make funds available to institutions of higher education, research centers, and other appropriate institutions to ensure the continued operations and effectiveness of the regional CHP Technical Assistance Partnerships.
(B)
Use of funds
Funds made available under subparagraph (A) may be used—
(i)
to research, develop, and distribute informational materials relevant to manufacturers, commercial buildings, institutional facilities, and Federal sites, including continued support of the mission goals of the Department of Defense, on CHP and microgrid technologies, including continuation and updating of—
(I)
the CHP Technical Assistance Partnerships installation database;
(II)
CHP technology potential analyses;
(III)
State CHP resource pages; and
(IV)
CHP Technical Assistance Partnerships websites;
(ii)
to research, develop, and conduct target market workshops, reports, seminars, internet programs, CHP resiliency resources, and other activities to provide education to end users, regulators, and stakeholders in a manner that leads to the deployment of CHP technologies;
(iii)
to provide or coordinate onsite assessments for sites and enterprises that may consider deployment of CHP technology;
(iv)
to perform market research to identify high profile candidates for deployment of CHP technologies, hybrid renewable-CHP technologies, microgrids, and clean energy;
(v)
to provide nonbiased engineering support to sites considering deployment of CHP technologies;
(vi)
to assist organizations developing clean energy technologies and policies in overcoming barriers to deployment; and
(vii)
to assist companies and organizations with field validation and performance evaluations of CHP and other clean energy technologies implemented.
(C)
Duration
The Program shall make funds available under subparagraph (A) for a period of 5 years.
(c)
Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
.
