Executive Order  —Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.) (IEEPA),   (50 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), section 5 of   of   (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in view of   Resolution ( )   of  , and UNSCR  ,

I,  ,

President of  , in order to take additional steps to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order  , and expanded in Executive Order   of  , that will ensure implementation of the import restrictions contained in   and   and complement the import restrictions provided for in   (22 U.S.C.  

et seq

.), hereby order:

Section 1.

Except to the extent provided in statutes or in licenses, regulations, orders, or directives that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order, the importation into  , directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from   is prohibited.

 . 2.

(a) Any transaction by a   person or within   that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

 . 3.

The provisions of Executive Orders   remain in effect, and this order does not affect any action taken pursuant to those orders.

 . 4.

For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "  person" means any   citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of   or any jurisdiction within   (including foreign branches), or any person in  ;

(d) the term " " includes the territory of   and  ; and

(e) the term "Government of North Korea" means  , its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.

 . 5.

The Secretary of the  , in consultation with the Secretary of  , is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by   and the UNPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the   may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of   consistent with applicable law. All agencies of   are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

 . 6.

This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 . 7.

This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on  .

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
