Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1.

Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Executive Order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of the   (Secretary) during any period when both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of the   have died, resigned, or are otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.

 . 2

.

Order of Succession

. (a) Under Secretaries of the  , in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such officers;

(b)   of  ;

(c) Deputy Under Secretaries of the   and those Assistant Secretaries of the   appointed by the President by and with the consent of the  , in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office as such officers; and

(d) the following officers of  , in the order listed:

(i) Chief of Staff;

(ii) Assistant Secretary for Management;

(iii) Fiscal Assistant Secretary;

(iv) Commissioner of  ,  ;

(v) Commissioner,  ;

(vi) Deputy Commissioner,  ,  ; and

(vii) Commissioner,  ,  .

 . 3

.

Exceptions

. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)-(d) in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this Executive Order.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Executive Order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Act, to depart from this Executive Order in designating an acting Secretary.

(c) No individual listed in section 2(a)-(d) shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to serve under the Act.

 . 4

.

Revocation

. Executive Order  , and   ("Designation of Officers of the Department of the Treasury"), are hereby revoked.

 . 5

.

 

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
