Executive Order  —Providing an Order of Succession Within  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , as amended, 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:

Section 1.

Order of Succession

. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of  , in the order listed, shall act as Secretary of   (Secretary) and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Secretary during any period in which both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of   have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary:

(a) Under Secretary for  ;

(b) Under Secretary for Benefits;

(c) Under Secretary for  ;

(d) Chief of Staff;

(e)   and Assistant Secretaries, with precedence among them in the order, by date, of their appointments and, if on the same date, in the order in which they have taken the oath of office;

(f) Chairman,  ;

(g) Network Director,   8;

(h) Network Director,  ;

(i) Director, Southern Area,  ; and

(j) Network Director,   19.

 . 2

.

Exceptions

. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)-(j) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

(b) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1(a)-(j) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 . 3

.

Revocations

. (a) Executive Order   of  , is hereby revoked;

(b) Section 4(g) of Executive Order  , is hereby revoked;

(c) Presidential Memorandum of   (Designation of Officers of  ), is hereby revoked; and

(d) Presidential Memorandum of   (Designation of Officers of   to Act as Secretary of  ), is hereby revoked.

 . 4

.

 

. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
