Executive Order  —Amending the Order of Succession in the Department of Homeland Security
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , including   of  , 5 U.S.C.  ,

et seq

., it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1

. Section 88 of Executive Order   of   ("Amendment of Executive Orders, and Other Actions, in Connection With the Transfer of Certain Functions to the Secretary of  "), is amended by striking the text of such section in its entirety and inserting the following in lieu thereof:

" . 88. Order of Succession.

Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the officers named in subsection (a) of this section, in the order listed, shall act as, and perform the functions and duties of the office of, the Secretary of   (Secretary), if they are eligible to act as Secretary under the provisions of   of  , 5 U.S.C.  

et seq

. (Vacancies Act), during any period in which the Secretary has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.

(a) Order of Succession.

(i) Deputy Secretary of  ;

(ii) Under Secretary for Management;

(iii) Administrator of  ;

(iv) Under Secretary for  ;

(v) Under Secretary for  ;

(vi) Under Secretary for  ;

(vii) Commissioner of  ;

(viii) Administrator of  ;

(ix) Director of  ;

(x) Director of  ;

(xi) Assistant Secretary for Policy;

(xii)  ;

(xiii) Deputy Under Secretary for Management;

(xiv) Deputy Commissioner of  ;

(xv) Deputy Administrator of  ;

(xvi) Deputy Director of   and Customs Enforcement;

(xvii) Deputy Director of  ; and (xviii) Director of  .

(b) Exceptions.

(i) No individual who is serving in an office listed in subsection (a) in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Secretary pursuant to this section.

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Vacancies Act, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary."

Sec. 2

. Executive Order   of   ("Amending the Order of Succession in the Department of Homeland Security"), is hereby revoked.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in  on  .
