Executive Order  —Establishment of  
 
 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of  , and in order to take a coordinated and comprehensive approach to developing and implementing an effective strategy concerning urban  , it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy.

About 80 percent of   live in urban areas, and the economic health and social vitality of our urban communities are critically important to the prosperity and quality of life for  . Vibrant cities spawn innovation, economic growth, and cultural enrichment through the businesses, universities, and civic, cultural, religious, and nonprofit institutions they attract. Forward-looking policies that encourage wise investment and development in our urban areas will create employment and housing opportunities and make our country more competitive, prosperous, and strong. In the past, insufficient attention has been paid to the problems faced by urban areas and to coordinating the many Federal programs that affect our cities. A more comprehensive approach is needed, both to develop an effective strategy for urban   and to coordinate the actions of the many executive departments and agencies whose actions impact urban life.

 . 2. Establishment.

There is established within   of the President   ( ").

 . 3. Functions.

The principal functions of the   are, to the extent permitted by law:

(a) to provide leadership for and coordinate the development of the policy agenda for urban   across executive departments and agencies;

(b) to coordinate all aspects of urban policy;

(c) to work with executive departments and agencies to ensure that appropriate consideration is given by such departments and agencies to the potential impact of their actions on urban areas;

(d) to work with executive departments and agencies, including  , to ensure that   dollars targeted to urban areas are effectively spent on the highest-impact programs; and

(e) to engage in outreach and work closely with   and local officials, with nonprofit organizations, and with the private sector, both in seeking input regarding the development of a comprehensive urban policy and in ensuring that the implementation of Federal programs advances the objectives of that policy.

 . 4. Coordination.

In performing its functions, the   shall work closely with all relevant executive departments and agencies, and offices and councils within   of the President, including but not limited to:

(a)  ;

(b)  ;

(c)  ;

(d)  ;

(e)  ;

(f)  ;

(g)  ;

(h)  ;

(i)  ; and

(j)  .

 . 5. Administration.

(a) The Office may work with established or ad hoc committees, task forces, and interagency groups.

(b) The Office shall have a staff headed by the Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Urban Affairs (Director). The Director shall report jointly to the Assistant to the President for   and   and to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. The Office shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order.

(c) All executive departments and agencies shall cooperate with the   and provide such information, support, and assistance to the   as the Director may request, to the extent permitted by law.

 . 6.  .

(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of   relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against  , its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

 

 ,

 .

NOTE: This Executive order was published in   on  .
